ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33956	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I risk becoming boring, but since the DSS MPs have been looking for two years and trying to end one story, which is also how it fell into our eyes as MPs and citizens of Serbia, I must continue in the same tone, in the same direction. The story, therefore, is about the abuse of position and the unintended spending of funds in the former environment ministry, while the minister in that ministry was Sasha Dragin and I have to keep asking questions, because apparently people pretend like nothing happened and nothing happens. We warned then that 11m euros were spent unintendedly on mosquitoes, ticks and ambrosia. I think all the sparrows on the branch already know about it, but there's only one problem. The funds were spent without the procurement procedure, which was the obligation of each budget beneficiary and, on the other hand, that ministry was not responsible for spending the money it had spent. The DSS really expected the DRI report with great expectation and what we claimed this report confirmed. So everything we said is in that report. A few weeks ago I asked Minister Dacic if there might be those who are untouchable in this country who will not be responsible for abuses? I've been informed of a very stupidity, although I've been given this answer very urgently, which is commendable, but my brother-in-law informed me that when he gets word of it and he calls for me to give the information, so I'm worried, if neither the Ministers of the Police, if neither the Government nor the Prime Minister nor the President of the Assembly reads the DRI reports at all, does this report exist at all? As for the congregation, the ruling majority in the congregation tells us that we will consider the report in March. I don't know why this is happening in March, when it's very important that we have that in mind today when we talk about the budget and I think it's really one of the kinds of abuses of position. What did the DRI report find on only one small sample, that's 20% of the ministries, three administrations and one directorate? I can't really convince in such a short time what's been established, but there are so many terrible things and so many boastful behaviours of the Serbian government ministers, who obviously have no need to save, as are the citizens of Serbia, who are driving cold trains and buses today. I came from Valjev today on an ice bus. So it's a completely non-intentional spent asset. Come on, those mosquitoes, they all know it already, 11m euros, it's completely irrelevant, as far as we're concerned, the ruling coalition. Furthermore, ministers and government members spent so much on catering services that they ate 83 folk cuisines that could be made out of these funds. Gentlemen, every ten citizens of Serbia today are fed in folk cuisines. The culture ministry has given valuable pictures to guests who come to the ministry or wherever they go, only one gave 15,000 euros. For art photos provided by the Ministry of Trade, that is thousands and thousands, hundreds of thousands of euros. What's my question - did the government discuss this report? However, I have read the statements of Prime Minister Cvetkovic that no one will be responsible, that these are some small things for which the accountants will be punished, because they did not register well, that there is no need to raise such questions, but what my question to the Prime Minister is - did the Government, gentlemen, discuss this report? I'm looking for government conclusions if the government has been discussing this report. These conclusions can be very valuable to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia. What we find very controversial is the order of moves that happened here in this home. We MPs were to receive the budget on November 1st and be adopted in this assembly on December 15th. Today, as far as I know, December 17, 2009, a few more days will certainly not be adopted. Then, we haven't seen the rebalancing, the rebalancing is gone. I'm asking a question - what's going on with the rebalancing? Why isn't he showing up? It's obvious there's something going on with that, as well as the final bill that came here, so it wasn't debated before the budget either. So, please answer, Prime Minister, since you already know everything, have you discussed this report and what you have done?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33957	National MP Dr Nebojsa Rangelovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33958	Madam President, honourable government representatives, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, the budget debate has been under way these days, and it seems to me that we have focused our attention solely on what this budget will bring, which are its bad sides and whether there are any good sides at all. I would put the budget in a broader context initiated by one skillful, one title in the daily list "Politika", which says, that is, the title is "More than a billion euros in losses" and the text says, "A total estimated losses of local self-government based on the ten-year application of the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia have been estimated at 1.3 billion euros and thousands of jobs" etc. Then Minister Markovic talks about the inertness and guilt of local self-government that in some way the effects of centralisation of change are softened. I'm not asking this question just as an LDP MP, I'm primarily asking this question as Nisli, because before we discussed the budget, we passed the law and the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, and then it seemed like the north had something that belonged to us Southerners, but we can't get or achieve it. The point of "i", or call it whatever you want, was the story of expropriation, where the countries of our citizens after the expropriation will belong to a private company that owns most of the gas and oil business in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, all the things I've been talking about, and putting budget debates into a broader context, achieving the resources of local self-government, is also the question of when, how and what else should happen to, say, the money stays in Nis and that these headlines do not meet us before the end of the year with public votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33959	The word is from Ambassador Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33960	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, the first question, that is, the notice I want to receive, and I didn't seem to get it for a month, refers to your activities, the Honored President. So, I was part of the consultation in your cabinet, before the start of the fall session, and you, I think the other colleagues who represented and the other parliamentary groups can testify, promoted one principle in the work of the fall session assembly, which I am very happy to say, if you remember, so you did it in the media for several shows and conferences, as regards the supervisory role of this Parliament. This highest legislative house does not only have a role, at least that's how I understood what you said and I accept it and as my opinion, it is not only a role to make decisions and laws that concern citizens first of all, but also to monitor how these laws are implemented and implemented. We are witnesses, all together here, it seems to me in the last ten years, objectively speaking, was someone in opposition at the time of the law or were in the ruling coalition, voted or not, objectively being passed a lot of good laws that were both European and human, and were showing the current need of Serbian citizens. We are also witnesses that many of these laws have remained a dead letter on paper, so I realized your desire to shake up a little executive power, or ministry, or organs that are required to enforce these laws, or ask them why they do not implement them. So this is what I asked you a month ago, and I think that you in a brief presentation or oral, even better written, MPs should at the end of the almost autumn session say what you've done or what we've done. I'm trying to do something from here with some questions, whether it's a supervisory role over some ministries, some public enterprises, to evaluate citizens, but it's still different if the president of the Assembly, who has both services and more opportunities to check how some ministries and some bodies work, so you have more opportunities than I do. Secondly, I want to inform you that the questions I have been asking here for months until today have not been answered by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Minister Diana Dragutinovic and Public Service Director Aleksandar Tijanic. Just to remind you that once during the G17 Minister Snow White Markovic, when she also ignored my question, you gave that public notice. I think you should also do so to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, Minister Diana Dragutinovic and Public Service Director Aleksandr Tijanic. The third notice I ask, therefore, I refer it to the Council of the Broadcasting Institute, above all to the President, to declare the emissions, in my opinion, the inappropriate content that is being broadcast at the Public Service. So, the promotion of gambling every night in direct transmission, all citizens know what I'm talking about, I notice that the last few days have appeared and the state lottery, as probably the organizer of it, but the public service of Serbia, television, European, as they say, then must succumb to the law on gambling and gambling games, and every evening to announce how many citizens have called, I say cheated that night, but if it is by law that citizens are deceived, so be it, and how much money is paid and how much is paid to happy winners. It's meant for every game of luck. I want a fourth notice from the Ministry of Infrastructure, the police and the prime minister. What do they think they're doing in the next 24 hours and the Serbian capital is clear of the snow? As our city today, our capital today seems to be not European and even an open message that only the main streets will be cleaned up. It is a general message from these authorities to the citizens of Serbia, but do they not live in the cross-border streets of citizens? Do people live there with children, do they live there too, people who need to go to work? Therefore, who is responsible that the city of Belgrade is not cleansed? (President: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33961	The question was therefore addressed to me, and I can immediately answer that I agree with you that we have had intensive legislative activity, which is the number of laws adopted by 286 and other acts, which is 93 acts. Of course, we've all done it together and we've done it and the laws don't really mean anything if they don't apply. Our supervisory function can take place in different ways, primarily through the functioning of the independent bodies that we choose and who respond to us for their work and deliver reports about it, and through the form of asking parliamentary questions or questions for notice for the work and information of the MPs. In accordance with the article by which you are now asking the question of our Rules of Procedure, ministers and all officials should answer within 15 days. If they have not done so, there are no sanctions, but we have the possibility, and here I now publicly invite all of them again to deliver questions, so our Rules of Procedure did not foresee, nor is it possible to have some sanctions in relation to those who are not in this House, but simply here we are informing the public that there are those who are very zealously answering parliamentary questions. On the other hand, the government is here every last Thursday of the month, and this is another possibility for us to ask the government and the prime minister very directly about the various areas and the laws we have passed, i.e. their applicability. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33962	In accordance with the said Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the SRS, I am asking the Government to explain and inform us that we could meet these obligations that we have in the National Assembly and on two groups of issues. I'd go first with something that's become interesting to the world's media, and it's being transmitted to our media. I'll read more, let me just be the titles of the text, one text of December 15th has the title "Serbia connected to the trade of 35 tonnes of weapons", and then the title of "Broken embargo of the United Nations", and then "War is good for business", we can start at something that was, say, in 2007, and then we've been asking something as a question, so we haven't got an answer. Let's just say that he published a text entitled "Shura Smudder", and then "Smuggling Arms From Paracino", also a subtitle, and then in my unknown English, something quite from the New York Times, I see that the picture of the guy with the trumpets is not in Guca, but in Belgrade here. The next text yesterday -- "35 tonnes of military weapons seized in the warlord's plane from Serbia," etc. I think we need explanations and further information about what this has to do with our country - is it just based on the headquarters of the company in question, or is it something else? There has never been terrorism in Serbia. In these circumstances under which we live, you know every text of the New York Times or anywhere to be published, or say this expert of the International Peace Research Institute Hugh Griffith, when he calls people from Belgrade with a Serbian name and name, arms smuggling, cigarettes, etc., and yet it is said that this man is the brother-in-law of a Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, etc., the state has to answer. As a MP, I wouldn't know what to say to my voter when he asks me, is it true what the papers are writing? Come on, maybe our newspaper doesn't believe it, but when I see the New York Times, so on. So we need some information to know if the state is involved, yes, it's not, who is Damjanovic, who is this, who is the brother-in-law. We've passed laws here on the fight against terrorism, on the prevention of money laundering, etc., but these texts show that it's practically left over here. Just by the way, I'm being reminded of Verica Radeta, who, a few years ago, when one of these laws was changed where the commitments were made to keep the fiscal cash registers in and in the taxi vehicle, indicated that it was not a European practice, that taxi drivers simply thought it was not a good solution, that no solution would be, you didn't listen to us. You didn't listen to us, you didn't even want to answer, you smiled like you usually do, and now you have a city blockade by the cabbies. Just to remind you, when we make a point as a question or as a political attitude, you take it seriously. Another group of questions, Mrs Dragutinovic, is too wide, I must say, it is really too wide, but you have to explain to the citizens of Serbia, so you can convince us here in this building – what are European standards, please. Here's an example, in order to be in charge, and in May of this year, and now you're passing some laws on debt, you've listed a whole series of commitments you've taken or fulfilled, among other things, to free the state from capital in banks, insurance companies, etc., and in Europe we have a completely different process – nationalisation of private banks by states. Now we have a foreign bank owned by a foreign state that is harassing here on our market. How is that possible? Where's the standard? When was that standard? I'm absolutely certain that standard isn't what you here tell us as a condition that something has to be done. It's not standard. Here, go to Paris, go to Holland, take a taxi – you will get an account, if you are not looking – you will not get an account. But no, it has to be with us, just to get rid of how someone imagined it. Please, where do they start and end your standards? Here, as anyone who appears from the ministers declares everything, he declares his boss a European standard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33963	As no one appears in accordance with Article 235 anymore, I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs Milica Radovic, Đuro Peric, Konstantin Arsenović, Branko Ružic, Djordje Milicevic, Gordana Comić, Vladimir Milentijevic, Donka Banović and Željko Tomic. I shall inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to ministers in the government, called for the meeting to be attended by Mrs Ruzica Stoiljkovic, an assistant finance minister. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2010. On Article 7th of the amendment, MP Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the Assembly of the People's Republic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Mrs. Djeric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33964	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Madam President, we have tabled an amendment in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group where we have asked that the four cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister's office be part of the funds that are intended for services under contract separate and transfer to the Ministry of Education, specifically as means to encourage the student competition. We have received an answer, for the refusal of amendments, among other things, not to read the full answer, says – the amendment is not accepted because the funds are intended for expenditure of the first Deputy Prime Minister's office, the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for the field of European Integration, etc., are in line with the competences and needs of these budgetary users, and is not acceptable additional reduction, given that this would endanger the functions of these budget users, especially given that these budget users have the means for these purposes defined at the level of the 2009 budget. I am also referring to this as a parliamentary question – how these funds were spent in 2009 in these cabinets, given that the promotion of savings was right in the government sector, that the government announced that the first one would bear the costs of the crisis, and that the services per cabinet contract amounted to the same number of figures, almost or approximately the same amount of salaries paid by employees in these cabinets. Do they even hire competent people in their cabinets? Why did we ask for these funds to be allocated to the Ministry of Education? It is precisely for the student competition, because it is important to encourage the best, to encourage those children in which our future lies and who, among other things, will get this difficult role to pay back these huge debts that we owe them daily. It will also have to be a question of responsibility for these times to come and we expect them to be ready and able to ask and give many answers to it. They need to be invested in. The educational importance of investing in the best is immeasurable, far-reaching, because they are the only light spark at the end of the tunnel where we are. They should be brought up to recognize the monsters of the type “Great Brother”, “Farme”, “The Moment of Truth”. They should be raised in this way to be ethical, moral, honorable, safe, conscious, and upright. They should recognize all those hohstapplers who offer them gambling as bones in exchange for robbed life and robbed childhood and youth. They should recognize both the disastrous ministers and the dangerous incompetent parties who post-governments of very dangerous dilettantism and they should prevent it in some future life. They should also prevent anyone from thinking that, in the future of a single country, the largest, if not the only, save, implement education and know that those who save on education are more dangerous to life than any war and more than the high voltage. If we talk about orderly size of how much we asked to move to this item, that you know that only in one of the cabinets of these four vice presidents, the item of service per contract is two million higher than is intended to invest in these exceptional children in all of Serbia, where they need to be realized, confirmed, promoted and stimulated, that we are not talking about the enormous energy of people who work with them. As much as we asked to move to this item and invest in it further is, again, when we talk about order size, a little bit more than that picture paid by the ministry, and twice as much as those photos that the ministry also paid for, again, for the exceptional, best children throughout Serbia. I'm not surprised by the rejection of the amendment. I'm surprised that no one truly and sincerely wants to invest in the future, and we were already talking about the money having, just not well or properly deployed and no one wanted to break that long practice of overwriting budgets from one year to another or maybe not even knew.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33965	You've used three minutes and 42 seconds since the MP's time, so you've got a little more than a minute left. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Anitc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33966	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment concerns Vice President Djelic's cabinet and we already, I would say, even for years like parrots, we repeat that the government needs to save on itself first and foremost, to show good will, to help citizens and businesses through saving and reducing public expenditures. Unfortunately, no matter what the public, I would say, agrees with all of us who are in favour of the government's behaviour, the government has so far failed to respond to the demands of neither the opposition nor the citizens of Serbia, that it should set an example and be more thrifty than everyone else. This is about about about 40 million dinars, as you all know, about some four Deputy Prime Ministers, all 130 million dinars, quite unnecessary funds that burden both citizens and businesses and in some way our amendments, and there are others in this sense that demand a reduction in public spending, also means that someone pledges the SNS to change the overall policy, to change the fiscal policy that has been based so far, of course, on one illusion of a strong dinar, on revenues from privatisation, on borrowing. It's obvious that we can't take so long, but we've already come to a situation where the recession is doing its part, that this economic crisis is affecting all of us. First of all, it affects, of course, the budget to affect income cuts, expenditure increases, more and more people who are socially at risk, who need to be helped on the other hand and the economy is in a very difficult situation, and it needs to be helped to survive in this time, and it is necessary that with one completely different concept that relies, first and foremost, on production, which relies on exports, come out with one economic policy and break up with this policy that has led us where we are and which has been going for years back. This was the reason for the SNS to react in any case in which it felt that the funds were needlessly wasted in this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33967	Thirty seconds from the parliamentary group. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33968	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that someone told our government that they should cut the figures in the budget, and when you look at this 1009-page book, the figures are so tiny that you have to read with a bang. They misunderstood the figure reduction, not the font reduction, but the reduction in the amount of money to be singled out. On the other hand, I've been going through this whole book, and I haven't found any means to co-operate with non-classified countries, to co-operate with the so-called. The third world, for co-operation with China, Russia, India, Latin America, and I expected this cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration to be part of the funds separated in some cabinet, some vice-president of government or at least some minister of co-operation with other countries, because it is not Europe's world. Europe is just a part of the world. Speaking of Article 7, at the cabinets of the Deputy Prime Minister for the field of European Integration, something that is eyeing anyone who looks at this side. For total salaries, allowances, employee fees, for earnings, 19 million were allocated. Not a bit, not much, I don't comment on that part. But I'm commenting on this second part under economic classification 423 -- contracted services are half of the total figures allocated to salaries and all other employee receipts -- ten million dinars. I ask, if we already have employees, we have experts on European integration, in this cabinet sitting, what are the services under contract that Deputy Prime Minister Djelic will pay for these ten million? To whom will these services be paid? Although, you know, there's a folk proverb that says, it doesn't take as much as it can, but how many opportunities it gives it. That's why I suggested that this economic classification of 423 be reduced to a million dinars, that eventually, if a translation of some texts arises, etc., it will be paid, and we in the SRS think that these nine million should be directed at this part that can't even be found in this budget. So, to find a way to focus these nine million in co-operation with the third world, in collaboration with China, Russia, India, Latin America, Africa, African countries, etc. There's a little money and it's a little bit going to be done with this, but if it stays in this division, in this economic classification 423, nothing of these pairs will be done. The only ones you haven't been able to pack are the ones that you can hire, and once they've glued your posters, they'll be able to get some cash on the basis of contract services. I think that this amendment should also be adopted, especially now, when we said we should save the last dinar, when 700,000 people in Serbia, as Minister Rasim Ljajic said, at the border of existence, and when at least twice as much is below the limit of existence, because he listed only those at the border of existence, should take care of each dinar and should focus those funds on other directions. We suggest that it be rerouted to co-operation with China, Russia, the third world and countries that are not in that Europe that you have been leading us to for 15 years, and that you will lead us for another 15 years, if you take us there at all. One more thing, to take advantage of this right to the amendment, so let me say, who was in "Politics" yesterday, and nobody's mentioning it today. There's talk back 4-5 days about how we sold the Russians to NIS and how our oil industry went there. Yesterday, you did not read in the paper that the government had done nothing for ten years to return the property of Serbia, which is from the oil industry, and that Putin had already been in the paper yesterday, so the day before, it was that Putin had asked the question of the Yugoslav pipeline, in which NIS has more than 33% of the ownership and has been taken from us since 1992, so we say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33969	National MP Jelena Budimirovic submitted to article 7th of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33970	Dear citizens of Serbia, my amendment is in principle the same as my colleague Zoran Antic's amendment. It relates to the allocation of budget funds to the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, which is also Minister of Economy and Regional Development. Such a budget proposal ahead does not reflect the state in which Serbia and its citizens are located, which is evident when it comes to the allocation of funds to the cabinet of the Prime Minister and four vice-presidents. The SNS believes that at the time of the economic crisis we are in, it is necessary to define precisely the objectives of budgetary policy and to set priority sectors, and in doing so we do not mean an increase in the state administration and the waste of money. We are a country with the largest number of ministries in the region and a very massive state apparatus, therefore it is unnecessary and unacceptable that, for the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, not small funds are allocated from the budget, when there is already a ministry responsible for this job, especially if we take into account that the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development and Minister for Economy and Regional Development is the same person. We also believe that this amount that you have provided for the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister should be rerouted to the other side. For example, subsidies in the area of economy are low. I can't say that the amount for the cabinet of the Vice-President of the Government is enormously large, but our economy is in a state, that every dinar is more welcome. This amendment is an appeal to the SNS to put your own interest or personal interest aside, and that you should primarily be interested in the citizens of Serbia, so I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33971	National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to article 7th of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 7 by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33972	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to reduce the amount of economic classification from 15 million to 10 million. In one piece and the other with 34 million, 27 million. These are services under contract and the funds are transferred to subsidies to private enterprises. Contracting services are very often assets that we cannot trace. Services under contract are places where malversions often occur, both in municipalities and in cities, both in Belgrade and in the Republic. I received a reply to this amendment from the government, where services under contract, when the funds were cut, would endanger the smooth functioning of the cabinets and the General Secretariat, i.e. endanger the functions of these budget users. Namely, the money used in contract services is used for, among other things, translation services, computer maintenance services, education services and employee training, for printing of various newsletters, audit services, legal services, employment of a person under a work contract, where a large number per party line is certainly employed, on a party line, on a family line, where friends, godfathers are employed and where these work contracts are signed. A large part of the funds are also used for special ministerial advisers, with as many as 59. I will point out that the three ministers have one adviser, that as many as eight ministers have two advisers, and as many as 13 ministers have three special advisers. These are the foreign minister, defence minister, interior minister, justice, finance, agriculture, forestry and water industry, economy minister, state administration minister and local self-government, minister of trade and services, minister of education, minister of health, minister of labour and social policy and environment and spatial planning. They all have three special advisors. What will the minister of three special advisors, if he does his job well or vice versa, if you have three counselors who do their job well, then the question is what does the minister do? In general, I think 24 ministries are unnecessary for Serbia, 24 ministers are unnecessary, 59 ministerial advisers are unnecessary. Money should be shifted to more priority matters, in order to develop Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33973	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vuceta Toskovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, my fellow MP, Vuceta Toskovic, in fact, points out that the government really refers to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment has been denied, and I need to read the explanation. It is said: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason why it is proposed to delete all the funds defined for the Office for Media Cooperation, which was established by the Government Regulation," means not even by law, but by a regulation, "as a government service and therefore this service is a budgetary user whose work is provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia". Let's see what the press co-operation office is and how much it spends on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He spends $34 million on wages. I don't understand how many officers it takes in that office to do their job effectively, or to work with the media. Even if it does exist, it shouldn't be more than three, four, possibly five employees. According to this item, there are at least 30 employees in that office. The next thing you see in this eye-painting section is a contract service - 12 million 750 thousand. What kind of services does the Office of Media Cooperation pay? All of what we've been trying to through these amendments all the time is, as my fellow MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, says, making a house out of a roof. The government and previous ones since 2000 have shown that they are effective only when it comes to multiplying the state administration. It's enough to look at how many employees there were in 2000 and how many will be employed after this rationalization today. That'll tell you everything. However, if someone seriously wants to do this job and be a minister in the government, he has to ask himself first of all – is it better that budget funds go to the salaries of employees in the state administration, which is constantly multiplying and not effective, or are they going to invest? I've heard more excuses this year, that reducing the state administration won't achieve much on the income side of the tax, perhaps some effects on the scale, but the income will come into account. I can't agree with that. If the funds are channelled into investments, the salaries will be received by someone else, not by a civil servant who doesn't do his job or by an imaginary job. The recipient workers who make these investments will be re-proportional producers, will spend that money on goods of broad consumption and thus will be newly created values again, and this way we have one barren administration that has no results. Second, the secondary consequence of investing in investment budgets is to facilitate future investors and manufacturers of various goods conditions to start doing their job quality, to expand their capacities or to open new ones. It's a secondary consequence and I don't want to talk about it. No one in this government seems to understand. So, when it comes to talking about reducing public spending, we don't see any serious shifts, because if we look at only the pay and employee allowances, it's about five or six billion less than it's supposed to be budgeted for 2009, before the laws that should cut it, and just so you don't even boast about it, which you've reduced those six billion, are projected somewhere around 180 billion, which is one extremely modest savings. I think you're going to have to think a little bit more about this problem and finally understand -- I can't have government officials, who have invented jobs, covering up behind the political parties that invented their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33975	Anyone else want Mr. Toskovic's amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Radulovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33976	I'd like to start with an explanation why this amendment is not accepted. It explains that the amount of 10,000 dinars would endanger the functioning of this budget user. First of all, I would ask the question – what is the essence and why is there even this budget user? You, Madam Minister, when you already have the office of the president of the state, where we have media moguls and where we have his associates owners of major media companies, these are the Universal McCain Group, Meccane Erikson, where Srdjan Saper, a member of the DS presidency, then, "New Communications", where Nenad Krstic, adviser to President Tadic, where we have "Mulikam Group", is owned by Dragan Dilas, mayor and Milica Delevic, who is the director of the Government Office for Co-operation with the EU. They're really the ones who blow up the whole situation and show virtual Serbia the way it is, essentially, it's not. The state is in big trouble, we've talked about the crisis more than once, and how many workers it doesn't work. What's interesting is that the total amount of services per government contract and for all ministries is 4 billion and 800 million people. I would like to say that this amount, which I have proposed and which I would like to reduce those services under contract with the Government Office for Media Cooperation and suggested that they be transferred to social protection funds, primarily families with children. That amount of 10 million dinars is not a small sum at all. Those ten million dinars if we only distribute a thousand families, that's what we end up with. A thousand families would get the help of 10,000 dinars. Do you know what 10,000 dinars mean, Madam Minister for a socially endangered family in Serbia? Do you have any idea what 10,000 dinars mean to ordinary people?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33977	The seventh amendment was submitted by Vice-President Judita Popovic, who has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33978	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, we are today discussing money, because what the budget is for some money, and we are discussing trust because the government is asking the citizens of Serbia that we represent here in the Assembly in what way it intends to spend taxpayers' money during 2010. Unfortunately, we are not discussing responsibility, and it should be previously normal to add an account of how money was spent in the previous period. Unfortunately, the draft budget bill for 2008 was also withdrawn from the assembly procedure, as was the report by the state auditor. So these are the acts that had to inevitably precede the 2010 budget debate. That is precisely the reason for the existence of this amendment, which I have proposed, which is to strengthen the capacity of national regulatory bodies. For this reason, I have proposed to increase the trustee for information of public importance and protection of data on personality functions, DRI, as well as the Anti-Corruption Agency a certain amount of money to improve their work, so that they are given a certain authority and thus their material position will improve. Very easily, the Office for Media Cooperation, the Office of the National Council for decentralisation, as well as the Ministry of Religion, can bear a reduction in the cost of services. So that's what can be done to strengthen the authority of these regulatory bodies, which are dams for abuse, for corruption, and for the senseless spending of money from the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33979	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Stefan Zankov, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33980	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by the SNS to Article 7. The draft budget law, which we propose to delete in the third Chapter 3.8 and in Section 23 of Chapter 23, which refers to the Office for European Integration and the Environment Protection Agency, has absolutely nothing to do with our position on the European integrations that we advocate as a party, and is also known from our discussions and the position on the role of the Environment Agency, whether it is necessary or not, but it is another topic. Generally observed, it is clear that our definition, especially in terms of the economic crisis, must not increase public spending and the multiplication of the state administration that works, I say, on the same jobs. I mean various offices, agencies and departments whose responsibilities are practically consistent with the ministry's affairs. There is a question of the existence of such ministries and ministers, which in situations where certain problems are to be solved from the work cycle of their ministry say they do not have jurisdiction. We need it as a state and society that those who are in the highest functions, who exercise power, also have responsibility. If we don't have responsibility, we don't need them or their not so small costs. You must have heard that one agency for medicine of the Republic of Serbia has 15 cars, so it is reported that half of that number is a new leadership, beware, a gift, says "The Government of the Republic of Serbia". On the one hand, the question arises whether they control the correctness of the drugs or, say, rent as an undertaking, on the other hand, it is offensive that one agency helps the government of the Republic of Serbia in this way. Whose money? It is quite clear that all these practically doubled ministries, I don't know how else to call them, are out of control of the system, that they cost us a lot, that the effects of their work and existence are disproportionate to their price paid by citizens of course. It is even worse if it is known that we as a state are in debt not to invest in production or business that will benefit from this loan, the credit is returned, but we are in charge of ordinary consumption and it is only asking the question of how long it will take, because in the long run it is impossible, and what is not good is that it is of no interest to you in the long term. As far as this amendment is concerned, we believe that this job should have been organised differently, because we have the Office for European Integration and Vice-President of the Government and his office for European Integration Affairs, and it costs a lot. 42 million cabinets, 113 million offices, and so the citizens don't think that I don't know what's behind those numbers, it's mostly about salaries and contracts. Such bodies as this office that regulates an area are over 100 in our country. "The Deputy Prime Minister," he said, "is directing and coordinating the work of ministries and special organisations in the field of European integration, and the Office is performing tasks for the needs of the government related to co-ordination of the work of the ministry, special organisations and services related to the EU accession and accession process" etc. We think this could have been arranged differently and cost less and less, because as you can see, this is almost the same thing. In the 2008 final account, we saw that 61 million dinars were spent for the work of this office, and for 2010, you planned 113 million dinars. I know we've accelerated on that path, as you say, towards the EU, but I don't believe this much. They mean a little more modest behavior is necessary, not just to talk about how peaceful pensioners and workers whose incomes are frozen. Well, gentlemen of the government, freeze your expenses, too. The finance ministry's explanation says it is under obligation to provide in the budget funds for the work of the government's authorities, the government's service. You're from a fundamental problem, so to speak, you've fenced yourself in an elegant way. The main problem, of course, is the excess and the double administration. This amendment of ours is about to remind you once again to take this into account and to let the public hear that you speak one thing and the other do, and I think the situation is serious enough for you to stop this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33981	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33982	Madam Minister, all the amendments submitted by the SRS were filed mainly on the basis of the DRI report, which, to remind myself, only did 27% of its work. Madam Minister, 63% is more than twice this figure and that this institution has miraculously done the rest of its work of 63% over this 27% I guess we'd come across anything. Here, in the European Integration Office, the 10 contracted services are estimated at 44 million and 542,000 dinars. It's been asked to cut to 20 million dinars. Also, in the Staff Management Service under contracts provided for in the amount of 32,918,000 dinars, we also asked to replace the amount of 20 million and to add this sum of 37 million to division 17, thus to the function of 410 - subsidies to private enterprises. Madam Minister, if you want this budget to at least look a little bit like a developmental one, focus your resources where they should be directed, priorityally, to those companies that work, which earn, which export, which employ. It's a priority to channel these funds. However, everything that comes from the SRS is clear to us that it is very difficult to be accepted. Sometimes it happens, and so it is with what Mr. Krasic used to say, when we fiercely criticised that provision that introduces fiscal cab drivers, you laughed at it. Here, now you've got a blockade on Belgrade. You'll have a blockade for many of the other things we've pointed to, and you've simply stayed as government deaf and silent about it. I will give another example, Madam Minister, it happens that certain ministers sitting there declare that what we as representatives of the SRS are told in certain criticisms of the legal proposals, but only declarative. Here, the other night, for example, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic considered 90% of what we criticised about certain legal proposals to be right. That's what he even said. You know, it doesn't mean anything when your government doesn't accept it. The government remains deaf and is not on it. You know what, that kind of reminds me of that time Nikola Pasic. When Nikola Pasic sat somewhere, Madam Minister, about the place where you sit, as a representative of the then government and listened to what representatives and opposition and positions were saying to him, so, in time, one minister fiercely criticised a proposal that came from him, this one stood up and said, Mr. MP, you are right, completely. That's what the second MP, Mrs. Minister, came up with, who criticized, but on a different basis, quite different. Nikola Pasic stood up and said – Mr MP, and you are right. He answered the third, finally, and said – Mr. Pasic, so it's impossible, these two were quite diametrically speaking, and you have to identify who's here, only one of them is right, and he said - Mr. MP, and you're right. There's only one truth. If the ministers declare themselves, or say here that we are right about certain proposals, the government should accept it. That's the thing. The government's silence, not accepting government, who knows where this nation and this country will lead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33983	And Mr Pasic, once Minister Mrkonjic, is also right today. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Momcilo Duvnjak submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Hajdarevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33984	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I have submitted concerns citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been damaged in events in the Municipality of Priboj from 1992 to 1995. I'll remind you what this is all about. During that time period, 18 citizens of the Municipality of Priboj were kidnapped and liquidated, four citizens of the Municipality of Priboj were killed in the territory of the Municipality of Priboj, more than 40 houses and auxiliary facilities on the territory of the Municipality of Priboj, in villages located along the border from BiH, burned, more than 200 families of Bosniak nationality from those villages located along the border from BiH, such as Kukurovici, Severin, Voskovina, Raičevići etc. is displaced. Although it is the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they have so far not received any material assistance from the state, and those citizens who are displaced are unable to rebuild their homes, but even today, 16 and 17 years after these events live in difficult conditions, outside their homes, and the state of Serbia has not even given them the status of displaced persons. Also, the families of the kidnapped Northmen have been deprived of any material aid because the state does not consider their kidnapped family members as victims, because according to current legislation, which prescribes that material aid from the state, families of civilian war victims, can only have persons who suffer a physical damage of at least 50% due to wounds, injuries or injuries, and by enemies during the war, performing war operations etc., and they are not treated by the state in this way. This amendment, part of it, is also the result of a meeting that took place here at the House of National Assembly on 9 December this year, where the MPs Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Šehovic, Munir Poturak, Bajram Omeragic, Meho Omerović, Vitomir Mihajlović, Sheriff Hamzagic and I had with representatives of the Fund for the humanitarian law of the Sanjak Committee for the Protection of Human Rights, representatives of the municipal authorities in Priboj, as well as with the president, members of the Association for the Protection of Rights of Exorcised and Displaced Persons from the Municipality of Pryboj, where we agreed on concrete steps to finally resolve these problems I spoke of. I got this amendment, you could say, one bureaucratic response, but we should get a political answer here. I am also convinced that I have the support of this amendment in the government of Serbia, namely those ministers whose resources I have reduced to help families and kidnapped and families displaced from the territory of the Municipality of Priboj. Madam Minister, the least we owe these citizens of the Republic of Serbia is your answer – do you accept this amendment that separates three million dinars just to help these families? In the answer I got here, you're saying that the basic function of the budget user of the Office for the Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas would be compromised, if they were to have a million and a half dinars of 99 million dinars, and last year they were able to work with 58 million dinars perfectly. So, I expect you, Madam Minister, to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33985	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33986	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted this amendment, where I propose that the reduction of the amounts related to the services under the contract, as in the draft budget in Article 7, Section 7, Chapter 7.7, Function 330 – Economic Classification 423, instead of "49,100,000", be reduced by the amount of "19,100,000". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it concerns this draft budget in these circumstances where Serbia is currently experiencing very severe consequences due to the numerous situations in which the state has found itself in the last five, six years. This is not a rational budget, this is not a budget that is intended to equally deploy the resources of the beneficiary of the budget, and on the other hand to spare taxpayers and to reduce their taxes and to emulate them according to their opportunities and current circumstances of the economy and their paying powers. Imagine that we have from year to year to year that permanent contract services are mostly increasing, so the question of the justification for reform of the judicial system, what we talked about and what we participated in in the debates, suggested that many things about judicial reform have to be set differently. In the 2010 budget of the Republic of Serbia, you gentlemen from the Ministry of Finance are proposing 1,100,000 dinars on official travel by judicial authorities, taking into account both several courts and basic courts. Here's what's gonna cost taxpayers that reform of yours. We will now have tourists, we will now have passengers who will have expensive cars, which must be rented apartments, which must be paid for their daily living, and all this costs taxpayers a lot. Here's another piece of information in that direction for 1,100,000 dinars you could give to farmers that amount for which 1,500 tractors of the middle category could be purchased. Secondly, every year, this budget runs through the purchase of machinery and equipment. So please, how long will it take you to get new machines from year to year, what about those machines that were purchased from previous years? What kind of machine do you need? Why don't we make it possible for individual agricultural producers? To get machines and equipment at a good price and to be helped by the government. Our farmers have outdated machines, tractors, combined for 20 and 30 years, and our government and its portfolios and about 9,000 tax users each year need 100 million each, someone 200 million dinars for the purchase of machinery and equipment. So when do you buy equipment from year to year, and what about equipment that's been bought for years? What's with the equipment? Is it because when the new minister and his deputy or secretary of state arrive, they need to change the furniture? No, I don't. You need to change the furniture, change the ones that come in there, make money for taxpayers. The taxpayers' taxpayers are yelling at the government, yelling at this government. The biggest enemy of the budget is the finance minister and his extended arm – the tax administration. And one more thing, how come you predict to travel to the Department of Defense, a billion and a half dinars? Please, what are we going to do, where are we going to travel for a billion and a half dollars? Couldn't that billion and a half dinar buy apartments with military persons who don't have apartments and whose salaries are extremely low, couldn't it have gone to improve the material position of the Republic of Serbia Army? Should we travel to Afghanistan? Should we travel to Africa, Asia or America in Ohio, should we spend money there? Who's gonna pay those expenses there? How come a billion and a half dinars for those purposes? Now that billion and a half dinars could have been more cleverly deployed, the economic account could have been, and in such a way as to show at least a little will that these citizens could be helped, to meet in a difficult situation and to invest this in a social programme, not on tourist trips. Here's to the judiciary and the military, what are your travels, a billion and a half for military officials? Where they will travel, who will travel it is not named at all, nor has it been presented to the MPs. For the judiciary this year, the reform of future taxpayers and how it would cost, and for all this it could buy 10,000 tractors, with only two positions and bow to our individual agricultural producers, to increase production for both exports and the domestic market.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33987	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Maras. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33988	The Honored Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group primarily concerns the redistribution within the budget, or that certain funds provided for in the item of the Ministry of Infrastructure, or which are intended as subsidies for railways, should be relocated. This is the essence of all the amendments submitted by LDP MPs, to make some redistribution, that is to say, in some of the ministries that are very important to us, which have not received enough revenue from this budget in the coming year to function in the best possible way. First of all, the DRI, then within the framework of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development, within the Ministry of Agriculture, we remove all of this from the railway subsidy. The answer I received from the government is that non-acceptance of amendments does not mean denying the basics, to provide additional resources within these departments that are provided for, or DRI, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Science and Technological Development and the Ministry of Education. It's just saying that there's awareness in you that these four divisions or three ministries and one independent institution didn't get enough of this budget. Our main reason why we pointed out that the DRI had to get more money is because we heard in the address of the president of the DRI that they had done so much work with all four auditors, which is 27% of the ministries, or those working within the ministries, they covered their report. In order to be able to do anything more seriously, our basic requirement is to get more money in the coming year of the DRI, to be able to raise the wages, to amend the DRI Act, so that they can change the wages so that the larger number of auditors who meet the conditions are employed in the DRI, to finally move into the control of public enterprises, their financial reports and to control political parties. We propose that the first party in which the DRI enters be LDP and this is our requirement from the very beginning, since this report has appeared we want to see how the parties operate and we want both the public and the citizens to know how the funds come from the budget are available, and they are distributed by political parties. We also consider it necessary for this country's future to allocate much more resources to the Ministry of Education, to the Ministry of Science and Technological Development. We also believe that the agricultural budget must be increased, no matter what is higher than last year, but there are fewer subsidies than in 2008. Not to politicise much, or not to sound like a demagogue, but it is clear that it is necessary to invest as much as possible in agriculture, but not in this way as it is done today and rather to say that the demagogy of those who have increased subsidies, but also at the same time emphasized in Article 43. The budget law that all claims on the basis of pension and disability for agricultural pensioners will be paid at the time of 2011. We ask you to reconsider this amendment, that we take a loser like the "Serb Railway" off the door like what we are subsidising, because yesterday I documented to you what money is spent on, among other things, and we separate 12 billion from the budget, 11.5 for salaries, and they set up "Serbian van" companies, issue magazines in which they give recipes for cooking, and we have divisions, i.e. ministries and independent bodies that cannot function without the intended money of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33989	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33990	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Parliament's task should be to ensure the interests of the people and to take into account the interest of the people in the adoption of the budget, this amendment concerns the defence budget. However, if this is not the case with the example of everyday practice, and unfortunately in the stages of the preparation of appropriations and budget implementation, thanks to our way of working, or the practice that you have introduced, we are almost not participating in these stages, except in the stage of the evaluation, which is what this moment and looks like, the budget, or budget projections for 2010 and besides us should also be given by an independent audit house. That this is really how it says that there is hardly any parliament where the defence minister does not present a projection of the budget for next year. I must remind you of a statement by the Secretary of Defense during this year that resembles words like this. On that occasion, he said that the Serbian Army and the military budget cannot depend on day-to-day political developments and that there is no projection of the defence budget in November without even knowing what the budget is. Either he is a random participant in the day-to-day policy or should resign in view of this statement and given the fact that he states. In view of your opinion on the amendment, which we have submitted, and given the fact that this amendment is related to 11 amendments to the SNS MPs and an explanation in which you say that this occasion increases the expenditure side by nearly a billion and 200 million dinars, and I note that 11 other amendments are reducing, i.e. resulting in a cost and other function, there is really no justification, Madam Minister. With the proposed budget and under it, it is really impossible to professionalise the army that was planned by the end of 2010. That is why these items we have proposed with the amendment have indeed tried to make this correction, and the other 11 amendments have found a model for these funds to be added to the Ministry of Defence. We cannot live on Serbia's laurels for the past 20 years as a successor to JNA. For almost 20 years, nothing has been invested in the military and imagine that all planned defence requirements and Serbia's military can be implemented in the period from this year and 2010 and the coming years with such a small budget and realised. Then we wonder where we're coming from, as we unfortunately did at Aeromitting, and what's the situation with equipment and military and what we can't buy during a budget year, one combat vehicle...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33991	Mr. Rogovic, you've wasted your time and MP groups and yours. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS warns the RS government of its positions in the 2010 draft budget, the funds provided for in the economic classification of services under contract. This economic classification is often abused. Most of the time, it's done with a variety of malfeasances, corruption and money transfer to private pockets. Besides, the SRS is right about the DRI report. This report clearly shows that this economic classification has been misused, and huge funds are being spent unintendedly. As I've already said, they're being spent for the personal gain of individuals in power. In order to reduce as much as possible the damage per state and citizen, the SRS considers it necessary to reduce these funds, and to this end I have submitted an amendment that reads - to Article 7. Division 12, Function 310, in the economic classification 423, contracted services, in column nine - 211 million 643 thousand is replaced by 180 million 463 thousand, in column 11 amounting to 301 million 180 thousand is replaced by 270 million. In Section 14, Chapter 14.1, Function 110, in economic classification 421, fixed costs, in columns nine and 11 is 305 million 593 thousand replaced by 270 million, for Division 17, Function 110, economic classification 454, columns nine and 11, the amount of a billion 400 million is replaced by a billion of 460 million. Madam Minister, I know that you and the government want to go to Europe, here's a chance for you to enter Europe through my amendment, if you adopt it. I guarantee you it'll be 2030.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33993	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33994	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Split 13. The draft law on the 2010 RS budget, which I ask for, relating to the 360 function, to keep BIA's costs in columns nine and 11 down to 118 million 155,000 dinars. The DS regime has subdued BIA's work to the U.S. secret police. In 2003, you abolished intelligence under the pretext of savings, and in fact you were ordered by the US Embassy in Belgrade. That was also written by Dragan Filipovic, former head of the Intelligence Administration in his book "Anatomies of the globalist smell". By abolishing intelligence, the DS regime has compromised the security of the RS and all its citizens. If you are already following orders from Washington, which you are obviously doing, if the BIA priorities are defined as requested by the White House, why would they increase the financial resources for the service? The BIA is persecuting Ratko Mladic, whose only fault is that he did not let Republika Srpska pass through as Republika Srpska's Krajina, but is therefore not trying to arrest Agim Ceku, Nasir Oric and other criminals. Since BIA follows instructions from the United States, let the Americans pay it, not the citizens of Serbia. When BIA is free from American and English influence, its funding should be increased. Then we need to restore intelligence. Then BIA will become a Serbian service that will work in the interest of all Serbian citizens, the SRS advocates.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33995	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33996	President-in-Office, Madam Minister, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I have submitted one amendment, indeed with a great dilemma which is the whole purpose of reading what we are proposing when neither will be accepted nor in any preparatory action to hold this session where the budget of ministers has been set up, as was once with all finance ministers, to make meetings with parliamentary groups and to try to comply with some demands from opposition MPs. So, in article 7, not to read everything in order, just to say the point, the specific part of the budget, the division of 29, etc., it probably doesn't interest the citizens much, the intention of the New Serbia parliamentary group, and it was mine personally to help students and pensioners. We are also witnessing previous sessions and previous months, and I think years that a number of students, not because of their lack of knowledge and intelligence, but because of the material position they and their parents are in, are not able to study normally. The idea of this amendment was to help these students and pensioners, above all, those with the smallest pensions whose pensions are now frozen. I'm particularly sorry, Madam Minister, for giving up your position at the beginning of your term of office that at least pensions, the lowest pensions increase, first those, and then raising everyone's pensions on a percentage basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33997	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33998	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment provides for a reduction in the funds that the Ministry of Finance planned in 2010 for services under contract. The old folk proverb says, "Save when it's there, and when it's gone, save yourself." At a time when, in the privatisation process, companies with social property were sold, no savings were spared. I speak in general, not just in this Ministry of Finance. Now that it's gone, there's still no intention of saving. No one wants to give up the opportunity to take care of their staff or to give some extra income. This is achieved with new borrowings, and is only saved on pensioners and maternity leave. As for the estimated amount of 80 million and thousands of dinars per contract, they are intended for translation services, then computer services. These services are very suitable for abuse, which is reported in the 2008 final budget review. Here's what the auditors say. When it comes to computer services, in some cases no evidence has been provided of the actual maintenance services paid for in the course of the year. In some cases, we have not convinced ourselves that there was at all a need for these contracts to be concluded, and in some cases public procurement procedures, goods and services were not implemented, primarily for maintenance services. Further, education and training services for employees. If there is something to respect and something I personally respect is education, but at this time of the economic crisis, when citizens are left out of work every day, the money of these same citizens should be paid to post-graduate studies to ministry officials. In your explanation, you are calling for article 49. The labour law, which is actually a cover for paying for this purpose. Our answer is that Serbian citizens should educate their children, not those employed in the ministries. I will return to the DRI report once again on the section relating to professional services. Professional services are primarily carried out by transactions representing payments under a contract of work concluded with natural persons. This revision has been treated by ten ministries and the general observation is that contracts have been concluded with persons with whom this was not possible, i.e. they have been concluded to carry out jobs that were not possible from the work of the ministry itself, and in certain cases, as it is in a precise report, no reports have been delivered on the actual operations carried out. Again, great opportunities for abuse. The reason is that this amendment is not accepted because the reduction of funds would endanger the achievement of the competence of this budgetary user, in particular, for professional services related to the agreement on the issues of succession and property of the former SFRY, for the work of the accounting committee, text translation services and simultaneous translation, etc. With regard to the National Accounting Commission, I would like to ask whether the chairman of the commission, to whom the monthly fee is 55% of the net salary of the director's assistant director in the ministry, is already making a profit somewhere, so these are his additional receipts. Is this the case with the other members of the commission who are entitled to a compensation of 40% of the said salary? Also, within the framework of professional services, the cost of recruiting ministers has been planned, funds for copyright fees are again provided for, for the authors of professional texts published in the "Finance" magazine, but for the same purpose, funds are provided for in the information services. For the same purpose, funds are provided for in two places.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u33999	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34000	I'd like to pick up where Mrs. Dimitrievich had to stop for time. Mrs Dragutinovic and our public should know that on pages 49 and 50 of the auditor's report there is something that has nothing to do with the accountants, Mrs Dragutinovic, but has direct ties with the finance minister. As regards the loan from the consolidated vault account, the deficit, i.e. the debt to finance the current liquidity deficits of the budget, concerns the end of 2008 of 25.30 and 31. Mrs Dragutinovic, and the auditors have established the direct illegality and irregularity for which you are responsible and there is no other who is responsible. I have to draw attention to you that this is a message, if the finance minister can break the rules and that the auditor finds out, then what is the message to the other citizens of the Republic of Serbia whether they should ever comply with the law. Since you have the credibility to pursue someone who does not respect the law, you who have internal audit in your service and budget inspection, you have a vault, you have different administrations and you control complete finances. That's what normally looks like. In fact, it's probably a completely different situation that you don't rule the ministry, but that you're exposed to some side effects. Now let me go back to this amendment. We have asked this amendment to reduce the budget planned by the Ministry of Finance, which you claim are intended to do in 2010 if we are granted some new credit and some new loan and co-financing conditions by the Republic of Serbia that you have reserved funds. I think it's a completely wrong approach. Why is it the wrong approach? In the financing of budget deficits for 2008, you have just shown that in practice you respect the Budgetary System Act which speaks about what happens when expenditures increase or budget revenues decrease, how red light is turned on and how priorities are determined and budget users' behaviour defined. You have not done so, and I fully doubted it, and these funds that you temporarily planned to be for sufining whether this co-financing will ever happen, because we have a situation under the existing 2009 Act on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from Article 3, where you defined and planned some duties during 2009. You did not realise those duties in the first half of 2009, but only in December comes a regulation that ratifys, or confirms an agreement, and its realization, the question is when and whether it will be, and not to talk about those restrictions, conditions, twisting its hand towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For the sake of the public, I must say that the partners of the Government of the Republic of Serbia are acting abroad. At a time of emergency in 2003, Serbia was admitted to the Council of Europe. It only happened to Serbia and no one else, or Serbia-Montenegro. Now in this financial chaos and economic chaos of the Republic of Serbia, someone is telling us about the white Schengen list, some agreement, etc. Everything is simply used to cloud that essence, so that the whole of Serbia can apply the way it behaves – a goose in the fog, and then everything and everything can happen on our political scene. I'm taking the opportunity to remind the government and the citizens to remind myself of everything the SRS pointed out in time, warned, and you just smiled and talked about how you ended up with your partners, everything's legal, everything's fine. You saw for yourself, you had to accept this report by the auditor, because this report is a condition for a new borrowing, and you are not pleased with it based on 27% of the control of the users of the budget that all irregularities have been identified. I used an example on page 49 and 50 to point out the illegality of the Ministry of Finance itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34001	You've used your time and your MPs' groups and yours. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34002	I will defend the amendment of my colleague, Alexander Pejcic, who, for health reasons, could not come. I'm going to defend him first because he's coming from Leskovec and this problem he's trying to solve there is right in this amendment. Of course, it is that Mr. Pejcic predicted that three million additional funds should be transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as the payment of the first war of reserves held in Kosovo. You know how much time they spend demanding to exercise their rights and Mr. Pejcic felt that this was a way for the state to resolve this issue, to resolve the first war on these reserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34003	Mrs Dimitrijevic, you have within the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the problem of the Yablani County military reserve isn't since yesterday, but the problem that the government has persistently ignored. I refer to Article 21(1). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says all are equal before the Constitution and the law. This same member of the Constitution was also called upon by military reservers from Jablani County when they tried to exercise their rights regarding the difference in the payment of war logs. Namely, the reservers from Leskovec, Vlasotinc, Leban, Major, Medvedje, Black Grass have been denied the possibility of achieving the right to the difference paid to the reservers from other districts. Avoiding the government to equalize the rights to equal journals offends their human dignity. Then when the call was to be answered and to participate in the defense of the country, these people responded. The largest number of calls was made to reservers from Jablani County, the largest one was also a response and logically, although many of them should be able to achieve these rights already achieved by reservers from other districts, but there were fewer. All the efforts of veterans to reach an agreement with the government have run out of success. Many strikes, the strike board conducted negotiations with the government's working group, however, there was no achievement of their demands. If budget abuses were reduced, these funds would have been paid off long ago. There is no excuse not to pay at least the first war in 2010. All possibilities for any justification were eliminated by the State Auditor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34005	Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Arsen Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34006	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment proposing that the budget reserves be reduced by 200 million dinars and that these 200 million dinars increase the funding for subsidies in agriculture. The government did not accept the amendment, explaining that the funds for subsidies in agriculture have increased compared to the 2009 budget. This is true, there is a slight increase in the veterinary administration, however, and these planned funds are insufficient, as was the case in 2009, especially given the fact that we have a frozen trade agreement with the EU, so we can expect in 2010 that EU countries' agricultural products flood Serbia's market and thus further worsen the situation of our agricultural producers, as subsidies in EU agricultural countries range from 400 to 500 euros per hectare of arable land, and we have about 120 euros, so that our agricultural producers will have severe competition, as EU countries significantly subsidise their agricultural producers. With the government's concern for farmers, although agriculture is one strategic branch of the economy in Serbia, we have come to the conclusion that this year there are 150,000 hectares of wheat less than the previous year and that already in 2011, we will have problems with wheat, that we will not have enough for our own needs, so we will probably have to import wheat, as we import raspberries from Chile and Poland, and our raspberries producers are spreading their raspberries to Arilla, Požega and Ivanjica and the whole area. Indeed, it is one of the government's complete concerns about its own agricultural producers in a difficult situation. In this budget, there were plenty of items where these could be more rational and those resources to shift for agricultural production, for subsidies in agriculture. Unfortunately, the government had no understanding of it and had no understanding to accept the amendments we submitted. What is interesting is I have information that these days at the Ministry of Agriculture, for some formal reasons, the application for subsidies from agricultural producers is rejected when it comes to fruit vines and fruit plants. I guess because there's not enough money, so I can't wait to rebalance the budget to see if those funds that were planned for this year's Ministry of Agriculture for Subsidies have been used. I don't think she'll be all used up to not be a budget deficit bigger than you planned.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34007	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34008	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this is the third time since you've been Minister to submit an amendment with a similar content, in fact, it's about asking you to increase the funds allocated to the Veterinary Service, so that they can implement a programme of preventive protection of the health of domestic animals. I have repeatedly warned you how important it is to help the Veterinary Service do this job, how important their work is for Serbia's citizens' health, and for Serbia's exports, because everything we want to export we will not be able to do without their confirmation to send it to the EU. I'm sorry you didn't accept my amendment on this occasion. You told me in your explanation that you've increased funds and that's exactly when we look at the figures, but I must warn you that you entered this year with a debt of a billion dinars to the Veterinary Service for jobs they've done in the last year. So, at a billion 226 million, as you wrote here, 226 million is just for the jobs they need to do in 2010. That's, you'll admit, and how little for a job of preventing the health of domestic animals. I must remind you that the Veterinary Service is not concerned with this government and this country on its knees. You have a practical job for 25,000 people doing 2,500 people. You practically have a privatization of veterinary cells that has been completely unsuccessful. Then, you have the traffic of veterinary medicines that are in your gray economy, so see if I'm right or wrong. You have a situation in the Ministry of Agriculture that you have a little, a little bit of an affair. I don't want to waste any time and stick to it. You have to admit that veterinary practice is the strategic axis of food production. I don't think we should talk about it this time, but let me warn you that these days we're all experiencing stress over swine flu, and that's just one modification of domestic animal disease, as well as bird flu, as well as similar things. So you're a reasonable woman. See if this is what I said, whether this debt of a billion dinars is real and what you think is possible in any way, perhaps not by accepting directly my amendment, but by rebalance or by any means to increase those funds because they are vital to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34009	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34010	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7, division 14, function 180 in the economic classification "463-Transfers to other levels of government". In the course of this year, we have talked many times about the problems of local authorities, local administrations, management in operation, just because these transfer funds have been reduced. They're down to 30%, to 25 million, that's about 42%. In an explanation of not accepting my amendment, in the last sentence, that I do not read, since we have little time, it is said that reducing the budget of the units of local self-government, through reducing transfers in 2009/2010. The year starts in the range of 6 to 10%. We see here that the decrease is 42%. I have proposed this amendment to return to the original one, that 15 billion be provided through in some way removing from some other positions, however, the amendment was not accepted. This, you will see, will cause major problems in the work of local self-government in 2010. Finally, an appeal for assistance has also been made by many presidents of the ruling coalition municipalities, I would say 95% of the municipality's presidents are from the ruling coalition. They made their appeal to both the Government and the Assembly. Their appeal has not been accepted. It's just that at one point it's quiet and nobody's talking about it anymore. If there are state budgets, there are budgets of municipalities that are reduced by half a year, in some municipalities even up to 100%. The municipality I come from has been reduced from monthly transfers from 19 to 10 million. You see, it's 90% and we're blocked. I can't finish the projects, I can't finish many things and we'll get into a situation (President: Time. ) I end up, please, we will be in a situation where foreign investment will be blocked and all of it started, because municipalities have taken over contractual obligations both by investors and we come into the situation, just this, where the potential of investors, foreign and domestic, who have already signed contracts, sued municipalities and paid for the damages for the termination of contractual obligations and failure to fulfil contractual obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34011	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Proposal for a Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget, in Section 16, Article 7 of the 420-word classification of "contracted services", in columns 9 and 11 of the amount "26 million", I proposed replacing it with the amount of "10 million dinars". Namely, what does the word service mean by contract? I think the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management has enough expert personnel in its ranks and I don't think there's any need to isolate it from this small budget that was given to the Ministry of Agriculture, and also to registered agricultural holdings. I just want to explain that there are 3,000 people in this Serbia who are out of business with the names of agricultural science doctors, magistrates, graduate agro-economies, people who are from the profession and who can certainly help this ministry. However, this is simply not used for us, but we see that one large sum of money that is unnecessary, that services under contract with 26 million should be reduced by 10 million, as I said, with one fact, for the sake of Serbian citizens. Serbia, with 3.5 million ha of arable area, is detached from the 280m-euro budget, while unfortunately I have to mention, one Croatia, with 1.2m ha, stands out 600m euros from the annual budget. You can see how much one country is in a hurry in Europe, and we are in a hurry, but we are failing to register agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34013	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34014	The objective of this amendment was to increase the funding for subsidies in the area of agricultural production and administration on the basis of the requirements of primary agricultural producers, then the various associations of agricultural producers, that the agricultural budget this year be at least between 5% and 6% of the total budget. However, this year, as last year, the government disobeyed the request, and certainly the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture. For the sake of truth, since certain information has been placed, even through the Public Service, that the Agrarian budget this year is 25% higher than the previous year, I have to deny it sharply and ask that the Public Service does not spread such misinformation to the citizens. The total agricultural budget for a billion dinars is lower than the agrarian budget in 2009. It is 25 billion and 621 million 810 thousand. Last year, the same budget was 26 billion and 690 million and 456 thousand, after the rebalancing. So, by even a little over a billion dinars, that agrarian budget is smaller. Since the government has not accepted this amendment, it will certainly be at risk of paying off all subsidies, above all so-called. The market measures the ministry is implementing, which is to support agricultural producers by processing hectare or by paying for the throat of cattle, but also especially for rural development, and it is certain that this year they will be able to finance less in the area of agricultural production than last year (President: Weather. I don't think it's right, I'm done. The government had no ear to accept this amendment and that it was no use for agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34015	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34016	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the objective and this amendment is to increase the item where subsidies are provided for our agricultural producers. Here's why. Mostly we were looking to download items where services are contracted, specialized services, etc. In order to facilitate the Ministry of Agriculture, since it certainly is a fact that subsidies are not paid in terms of how much they came to the Ministry of Agriculture, this is why. The Ministry of Agriculture has made every effort to find any reason to reject our agricultural producers and not pay them subsidies. Because of the time limit, I'll only try to give you two examples. For example, wine producers bought with a declaration and imported seeds where they were to receive subsidies and return certain funds. Our ministry refused such demands, for example, because 37 pieces of seedlings were more in the account that they brought to the Ministry of Agriculture. Imagine that noise and shame. Because of the 37 seedlings, the motion was denied. The only reason he was rejected is because you don't have enough money and what you said, and you, Madam Minister, keep mentioning it, no one will give up the subsidy, and you are calling for the EU, and you haven't said at any time how many subsidies are in agriculture in the surrounding countries. I don't think this is right first of all, and we expect the Minister of Agriculture, although you should know that you're still going to meet and that you're going to increase the level of subsidies and finally start taking care of our agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34017	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have shown this amendment that the draft law directly violated the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, because through the economic classification for specialised services it tried to transfer certain funds to two state institutions. One is the Privatisation Agency, and the other is the Accreditation Body. In fact, this transfer of funds has been forced, to put it this way, by means of funds and defined funds for two state institutions, and the Budgetary System Act does not allow it. In the case of specialised services, you have listed the following on page 224 and 225 of this draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2010 – specialized services are classified as: agricultural services. Will the Privatisation Agency deal with agricultural services? Will, paragraph 2, education, culture and sports services, perhaps the Agency be performing these services? Then, medical services, maybe they'll become the medics at the agency. Furthermore, highway maintenance services, national parks and natural areas, environmental conservation services, science services, geodetic services, as well as other specialised services. Mrs Dragutinovic, this is a direct violation of the provisions not only of the Law on the Budgetary System, but of the Law on State Administration, the Law on Public Agencyes. Regardless of your argument, I believe you must accept this amendment, because this is not the way you can define the funds. This is a direct violation of the Constitution, as well as the law that I have stated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34019	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34020	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this amendment is extremely important because in this area, the appraisal is talking about the state's investment in Fiat as the founding part of capital and all those projects that need to accelerate the economy. On behalf of the SRS, I asked that this amount be increased from 17 to 25,594.125,000, because we also considered that there were savings opportunities, especially through what fellow Serbian radicals said when it came to specialized services, services under contract. These are the enormous spending of people's couples, and on the other hand, the economy of Greeks and, worst of all, is not seen, here, today is December 17th, Mrs Dragutinovic, the date on which an annex of the contract with the "Fiita" will be signed. You know very well, as finance minister, you've now defined yourself, and we Serbian radicals, we support it, but is that the project that's in the haze? You know what this is about? If we as a state of Serbia have defined the funds by this, I ask that it rise from 17 billion to 25. Tell me, please, what are your findings on the annex contract? The Fiata obligation was to pay 200m euros by 31 March this year. Right? Everyone knows that, and who are and who are not Kragujevci, read the Serbian public. Where's the money? What's going on? Is there anything we can see about that at all, and can we say, now before the end and this 2009 that it was all a hoax before the May elections, or is it something? What kind of model is it going to be, how much is it going to be produced? When will the money be given? We absolutely want Kragujevac to go through progress, to develop the automotive industry, but we don't see these positive signals coming from the other side and we're missing out on a big time. On the other hand, many people have lost their jobs, so if you can, I end up, Madam President, Mrs Dragutinovic, to give me an answer, because it concerns not only the Kragujevac, but also potential cooperatives and all those who have put great hopes in "Fiat".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34021	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Nikolic has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34022	Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the 2010 Budget Bill and to Article 7. Split 18. Before I explain this amendment of mine, I would refer to the following. The ruling majority's dictatorial will has made it impossible for MPs to discuss the DRI report, preventing Serbian citizens from realizing how devastating the current government's policy is. From the beginning, or from the formation of the DRI, we have been faced with obstruction of the work of that institution, and after that report and the behaviour of the Government, or the ruling coalition, we can conclude that this is not an accident. The control covers only 27 beneficiaries of the budget, the work of 14 ministries, three administrations and the Property Directorate. Many irregularities have been identified there. The DRI report finds that the risk areas are the following: specialised services under contract where experts are engaged for jobs for which the ministry has no staff. The question arises – what are the staff in the ministry? The control found that the contracts for professional services were concluded for the tasks which were in the power of the ministry and no reports were provided on the services carried out. There are also payments of overtime for which there is no record, areas of public procurement. This assembly has not yet formed a public procurement commission, and this was required under the Public Procurement Act to do so within six months. There are also computer services, information services, etc. We had a report on the 2008 budget inspection in our hands. It is controlled by 9,000 budget users only 77 and 90% of cases have found irregularities. Irregularities are at all levels, starting from the ministries to the locals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34023	Time. Thank you. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 7th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34024	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I have submitted an amendment asking for the funds to be allocated to Corridor 10 from 7 billion to 9 billion and for this increase to be used for the reconstruction of the track in Corridor 10, in the railway section, because Corridor 10 is not only roads, but also railways. I don't think there's any need to specifically explain why it's necessary. Our railways in Serbia are in catastrophic condition and at the same time this data can only be worse, because there are about 200km of rails where trains cannot go faster than 20km per hour. By the way, the average speed at which trains across Serbia are going today is lower than in 1936. That's the truth. I suggested that those funds be removed from the railway donations. The government turned it down with one, I have to read part of that argument, because this is the height of cynical demagogy. He says, "It would first and foremost endanger the payoff of around 20,000 employees in "Serb Railways". To be clear, any responsible government will assist its railways, it is not disputed. But it needs to be helped by investing in railways, by investing in means of transport, by investing in increased safety of rail traffic and by resulting in the fact that railways can function normally and, of course, provide profits for their 20,000 workers. By just helping pay off the profits, and the railways won't work, the state doesn't have much use for it, not to say we don't use one significant resource we have, it's a geographical position in Europe to make serious money on that resource, on traffic. Of course, we can't make serious money if our trains go 20 kilometers an hour. So, the idea of the DSS was that part of the funding, it's supposed to be 12 billion dinars, that two billion be transferred to investment for the railways, I'm not going to talk about other effects of that job, that a certain number of workers are going to be able to do it again, and so on, and so on, but instead of simply helping, we're providing payouts for railways that aren't able to work. I don't know why this amendment was rejected, but I gave a similar amendment last year, and I kind of hope that after one 17 amendments, or 17 years, there will finally be some government that will realize that the problems of the railways should be solved in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34025	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34026	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Article 7 of Section 21, I have tabled an amendment with a proposal to allocate more funds for fighting and disability organisations in economic classification 481. In fact, the 2010 budget proposed that 49,211 000 dinars should be allocated for fighting and disability organisations, such as government organisations. With this proposal to add another 50 million dinars to this isolated sum, the idea is to help very important and very important organisations dealing with a serious job, i.e. partner business with state authorities. In the second part of the government's argument in the refusal of amendments, it is clearly stated that the refusal of amendments does not mean denying the grounds for providing additional resources for donations to NGOs that are programmed to support and assist veterans, wartime disabled people, civilian people with disabilities and their families, etc. The amendment provides for the removal of those 50 million dinars from position 472, where sickness and disability-based compensation is to be transferred to this economic classification – aid to NGOs. It might seem a little bit and strange, how to take off something that is the priority of the Serbian government, as it stands in reason, that there are no data behind us, so I will now use the time of the parliamentary club to explain a little and ask, first of all, the proponent of the budget, to reconsider this amendment once more. For this purpose, 14,754,000 were allocated in 2008 to this classification, of which 550 million dinars were paid on the basis of the 1999-2002 wartime invalidity debt, which were not harmonised. Then there were all kinds of complaints. For 2009, it has been paid so far, with a December disability of 13,739,000,000, of which 200 million just as in 2008, i.e. for lawsuits. So 13.5 billion dinars were required for this year for disability, i.e. The drop in funds of nearly a billion dinars for basic rights of fighters, disabled people and families of fallen fighters. The tendency to fall is that, in preparation for this session, we have talked to the ministry's representatives, that by nature things are an older generation of NOB participants, above all, who have the rights, somehow biologically leaving this world and we are in a situation that more and more states can save on these rights. Of course, saving on these rights isn't good. We believe that the work that the fighting-involved organisations are doing is precisely to improve society's relationship with those citizens, i.e. to the fighters, the disabled and the families of fallen fighters. Here the word “war diaries” is often used as, in my opinion, day-to-day politics and is trying to pick up some political points because someone has not singled out the funds. We agree that it is necessary for all war veterans in Serbia to have the same archin, and we are extremely sorry that neither of these classifications provides for the payment of social assistance, as it was done during the previous government, to help seven municipalities of southern Serbia, so that the state treats all war veterans in the same way. Of course, I'm sure, because I wouldn't tolerate the amendment, that if the government accepts this amendment, we're not going to damage these rights for any single dinar, but that's the only way we're going to form a partnership relationship between these very important organizations and the state, that is. Government, like someone who runs the budget and the money from the budget. How significant this is, I would like to point out just one example, that within these organisations, which are 23, which are funded from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, under the Law on Combat and Disabilities Organisations of 1999, we have three organisations that are members of international associations of anti-fascist organisations, states and so on. We had an example that the representatives of SUBNOR this year could not leave, i.e. Two representatives left in an extremely difficult way, i.e. We asked the money for their trip, to go there to block the reception, imagine now, joining the UCK in the International Organisation of Anti-Fascist Countries. They've done their job, managed to prevent it, and our primary task is to provide more resources for such organizations in some future period, that their work and their work on the ground, i.e. With citizens, with veterans, with fighters working daily, to speed up as fast as possible. I conclude, we really don't think we're going to damage the EC's disease and disability by seizing another 50 million to this EC, compensation and grant to NGOs, and once again I ask the minister to reconsider and adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34027	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Milentijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Arsen Đurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34028	My colleague Vladimir Milentijevic, who is justly absent, submitted an amendment proposing that the KIM Ministry's budget, the social security fee, increase by 200 million from the budget, means 100 million to 300 million. I have to say that these fees during the previous government were planned with 900 million, which means that this government also in the 2009 budget, and now for 2010 it has reduced those funds nine times. I think it's an extremely irresponsible government attitude towards our population at KIM. With this amendment, we have proposed that these funds increase by 200 million for some of the most vulnerable population in KIM, which is, unfortunately, more and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34029	The 7th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34030	Ladies and gentlemen, we wanted this amendment intervention to increase the amount of funds allocated from the budget for science and technological development. I don't think there needs any justification, we're signatories of different agreements, starting in Lisbon in 2001, where all the countries in the region are advised to move from GDP to less than 0.3, which we then had, to some 0.3% as likely right now, on a figure moving towards the unit. Croatia has managed to build a unit, many other countries in Europe are at least heading towards two or more. So we're very behind in scientific and technological development. This is the item from which everything is financed, so from the cleaning woman's salary to the researcher's salary, project funding and a lot of things are going on, that's the basic item in this section. We wanted to increase it from those funds that are in the NIP. We don't think that what's in the NIP doesn't need to be financed either, but always, since it's mostly political funding, certain demands, there's less sin if something isn't done to help science. Science has no one to help, science is a special research that is not fundamental, 95% of all research money in science goes from the budget, it's more than completely inverse of what Japan, the United States, the EU on average is giving 55% of the research economy. Unfortunately, we don't have an economy that wants to do this, by privatizing what it is, the lack of conditions, the interest of new owners to assist scientific research. Everything is left in two choices -- or to lose the scientific frame, not to develop young talents, not to maintain the institutions that got the licenses, or to fully bow down to the fact that we will no longer have a scientific underage. Something is predicted here, and the focus and priorities given in the plan for research development strategies are projected even to fund two and a half thousand PhDs from the budget. With what you've given now, about 250 is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34031	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, we have tried to increase the amount of transfer funds from the Ministry of Planning and the construction of funds intended to finance and co-finance spatial plans and urban plans for local self-government. The fact that this amendment was rejected by the competent ministry, i.e. the budget user, is in fact that this Law on Planning and Construction will also experience the fate of that 2003 law. I can accept the fact that it says here in an explanation that, possibly, such a change in positions would question the implementation and implementation of a project in the field of environmental protection. We're certainly not against it, it's good and it can be worth it. However, it is pointless to talk and talk about defining projects and programmes in the field of environmental protection, such as regional sanitary dumps or some cell transfers if you did not anticipate and define these same projects by means of a spatial plan or an urban plan of some local self-government. I will remind you of the devastating statistics that 80% of municipalities have no spatial and urban plans, and the number of municipalities that have only made decisions on the accession and development of spatial plans and urban plans since the date of entry into force of the Law on Planning and Construction. The creation of one spatial plan, depending on the municipality and the content of the plan, is 3-5 million dinars. I'm not talking about urban plans here, it means only spatial plans. The state has committed a new law to fund or co-finance it. That is why we felt that in this way we would introduce some order and respect some procedure, i.e. step by step, so that municipalities could be adequately engaged in and projects for environmental protection, but to meet all of those preconditions. I'll finish, just one more thing, Mrs Dragutinovic, here at the Environmental Protection Agency, it would be good to see if it's intentional or accidental, some 800 million dinars have been dropped recently, so see if it's a technical mistake or something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34033	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34034	My amendment to article 7 of the 23rd Section 620 in the section relating to transfers to other levels of government, requires that the amount of 578 million dinars be replaced by 678 million dinars. This increase of 100 million dinars targets the municipalities of the Kolubar district affected by the 1998 earthquake. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how many families in Kolubar County in the municipalities of Ljig, Mininica, Valjevo, Ub, Lykovac and Osecina have welcomed this snow without a real roof over their heads? Their houses were destroyed in an earthquake that hit this area in 1998. It's been over 10 years since then. The fact that these people are not houses restored after 10 years is a great shame for Serbia. Many of these families have survived these ten years in a state of emergency, in agony. In order for this state shame and their agony to be over, I proposed that the 2010 budget increase the funds intended to eliminate the effects of the earthquake. I know the state can find a thousand excuses to justify this disgrace. I know this amendment of mine won't be accepted, but there's no justification for you. The excuses could be accepted that in the meantime, thanks to the state, thanks to government parties and their ministers, the state has not been robbed by tens of billions of euros. In this way, hundreds of criminals acquired so much property that they could build all the houses in the Colubary County, and that, people said, they didn't feel it. But they're obviously more important to the state than the poor girl from Mionica, Ljig, Valjev, Lajkovec, Osecina and Ubba.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34035	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34036	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of Parliament's Forwards Club, I have tabled an amendment relating to Article 7 of Section 23.2, where we suggest that function 560 be deleted. Otherwise, this section refers to the Environmental Protection Fund. In general, we know what it means to protect the environment, but we have the Ministry of Environmental Protection, we have the agency and eventually the fund. We consider these assets to be part of an asset that increases public spending. This amendment is highly meaningful and rationally submitted in front of the SNS, where in the context of 11 amendments whose original objective of intervention, my colleague Mico Rogovic explained nicely that meaningful and rational budgets that go towards spending are directed towards the Ministry of Defence in order to modernise the military and create conditions for professionalisation, so that this is a complex group of amendments to be adopted. The amendment is rejected, and the government says that this fund is mostly financed by its own resources, and that's true. But, on the other hand, in the explanation that I am not reading, in this 2010 budget, on the basis of the Waste Management Act, on packaging, on packaging waste and fish funds, new revenues were determined to be increased, so that these new revenues could be foreseen to spare this budget part, to be transferred to the Ministry of Defence, because this would be an extremely rational approach, and in the next year these funds would be covered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34037	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dragan Zivkov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34038	I have submitted an amendment to article 7 of Section 24 of Function 810, which refers to donations from NGOs. The amendment was unacceptable, of course, I didn't expect it to be accepted, given that the ministry's explanation is that it would only increase the deficit with this amendment that I proposed. The essence of my amendment is to increase by a billion dinars the area of sport, i.e. donations and funding of sports alliances. Not to explain how important it is, Mrs Dragutinović, this branch, i.e. a sport in our society. When we take only statistics on young people's mortality today or earlier, then many of our athletes who are talented, and they can't come to terms just because of the finance, I think you could find the opportunity to increase these minimum assets I asked for, a billion dinars, regardless of whether it would increase the deficit, but I don't think it would. It's just, here, let me help you. If you don't already accept the amendment, follow the situation of the National Investment Plan, follow your public procurement commission, from where many funds, not only this billion dinars, but much more money would be saved and the rest in the budget, this could be the classification I've asked for more. Since it is likely that in three months, or four, there will be budget rebalances, I would ask you to follow what I have indicated to you during that period, so you will see that you can safely find, not these funds that I mentioned here in this area of sport, but for agriculture and for all these areas that were sought by both the members of the SRS and the MPs who submitted the amendment to this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34039	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Svetlana Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Omeragic and Riza Halimi submitted their amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted an amendment with a correction. On Article 7 of the 26th Amendment, MP Momo Colaković submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the MP... (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Not Janko, but Milan. )......................................................................................................... It says here, Janko. We also have an MP, Janko Veselinović, in ZES. He's the one who took it. No problem. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic, who wants a word, I suppose. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34040	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Section 27, Section 110, in the economic classification "423 - services per contract", with an amount of 32. 223,000 is replaced by 12,223,000. This refers to the division of the KIM Ministry, with reason I submitted this amendment in order to save 20 million which can be used in a much more rational and meaningful way than to provide for services per contract. Otherwise, on the grounds that this amendment is not accepted, I received from the Serbian government that funds are necessary for the alleged defence of Serbs, for protection against natural and other disasters, as well as in creating a network of offices in the informational sense, allowing the population from all enclaves with KIM to communicate with the KIM Ministry. This is a dreary, miserable and miserable explanation, where I would like to get information -- how much this was spent last year for these purposes, primarily for the defence of Serbs, for protection against elementary disasters, as well as for the creation of these network offices. By the way, let me remind you that when you come to the KIM Ministry, they say, we're in the KIM field. When they go to Gracanica, they are in Belgrade, so you can't possibly get to them, only you probably think that this modern trend, that they communicate with their ministry via the Internet. On the other hand, I have submitted a request for the KIM Community Assembly to be a budgetary user, however, there was no answer and there is now no single sentence. What the government has acknowledged and accepted in its conclusion 13/44, the KIM Ministry and the Ministry of Finance have rejected, so they do not exist. I therefore want, especially Minister Dragutinovic, to congratulate her for being able to shut down a Serbian institution in the KIM area, and what trend is it that you probably want to destroy all that Serbs are caring for and building, and contrary to indirectly helping the Cypriot institutions to develop and strengthen them in the KIM area.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34041	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34042	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this amendment was to be accepted and more to the SRS parliamentary group to say thank you. What's this about? I understand your difficulty, probably this period in which you are the finance minister will remain in your professional career as something you won't want to remember when all this is over. You have managed somehow with the heads of the authorities, or from the budget users, to agree on the total funds, and now don't let some MPs touch you on it, and you've had trouble coming to terms with it. Why should I say thank you and accept the amendment anyway? Because we have proposed in two ministries, specifically in this amendment at the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and in the Ministry of the NIP that funds be allocated for services under contract cut. We also suggested in one agency that the funds were allocated to services under contract cut, but that they were then granted to private entrepreneurs. We don't touch the personal income of employees in these ministries and in this agency, in constant costs, in material costs, but only in what the funds are allocated to services per contract. Here, it seems to me, anything that can't be taken from the citizens of Serbia is nicely packed by the contract or possibly by some specialised service, and then you get it out. You've also provided services for NGOs in these ministries. You see how slow that goes. When SRS lawmakers pointed out that our NGOs, not all of us think, but those most severe in their activities against the interests of the Serb people, that they are slowly financing from outside, from the haters of the Serbian people, and that one day there will come a time when their activity will have to be financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Here it is, slowly, we already see it in the 2010 budget. You have proposed that media services are hidden in these services by contract (President: Time. Here, I'm finishing up... at the NIP Ministry of Advertising which facilities will be on the agenda. It is enough for Mrs Verica Kalanovic to come here and she will tell and tell about all the projects that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34043	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment I submitted refers to the Ministry of the NIP, i.e. the economic classification of "423 - contracted services" with the proposal to reduce the amount in columns 9 and 11 from 28,800,000 to 8,800,000, i.e. to reduce the funds by 20 million dinars. The funds available to the NIP Ministry are extremely large for the implementation of the projects, but the items depicting directorial, i.e. current costs also found this economic classification of "423 - services per contract". This Ministry of NIP is free to change its name to the ministry of pre-election asphaltation of streets and the construction of sports fields and renovation of cooperative homes. The mass of projects done under the law has been promoted or implemented by the ministry just ahead of some elections as part of a pre-election campaign. We all know that from experience in our local self-government. Many of these projects are not being realised, or waiting for some new elections. As regards services under contract, the Government stated by reason of the refusal of amendments that the reduction of funds for this purpose would jeopardise the financing of this ministry and stated that it plans to spend 28,000,000 dinars through tendering services for public procurement for the purposes of projects for monitoring, realization and realisation, i.e. meeting the public, media services, etc. Apparently, a huge part of these 28,000,000 dinars is intended to settle costs, to publish tenders and advertising in the media, and this is inaccessible, along with the zolko public services of citizens, starting from RTS to local media, which in most cases turned into the personal information property of the president of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34045	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment I submitted before the SNS refers to Article 7 of Section 29 of the 410th Economic Classification 551, columns 9 and 11, which provides for a reduction of the National Investment Plan Ministry of two billion. These funds would be rerouted to the Ministry of Science and Technological Development because we believe that they are more necessary and meaningful there. I'll explain why. The NIP funds, as well as regionalisation, which is the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, you know why I mention this ministry, sees as an incentive for undeveloped areas, seems to continue to assume the existence of privileged and discriminatory areas. The NIP minister is free to push for priorities that are almost under the rule that they have nothing to do with equal regional development, with the needs of the most vulnerable areas of the Republic or priorities. In addition to my words, there is certainly the following fact, what you can check on the NIP Ministry site, the home page says that in Serbia for the first time the NIP project will be planned and defined on the basis of needs and priorities. That's how it's on the site. The question I ask you is: how have they been assigned so far, on what basis, based on political belonging of local leaders or on the principle of beautiful eyes, based on the need of politicians, apparently, G 17 to be photographed for television, as they can with a series of projects that are slowly and suddenly delayed to end at the right moment, to cut the tape with television cameras? What completely defeats me is the fact, let's say, that in the municipality of Lebana 100% of the population there is no water supply, while in Žitište, Novi Crnja and Blac and some other municipalities, 100% of the population has no sewerage, and the NIP funds have been spent on cablers and the like. Now that my time is running out, I'd like to conclude, unfortunately I have to realize that the core priority project is the NIP how to draw a 5% censorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34047	On page 7, the 37th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Cholic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia's SNS, I have submitted an amendment asking that Article 7 of Article 7 of the 7th section of the 37th function 140 be deleted for the reason that this part of the budget shows one way of non-domestic, irrational behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Serbia under the conditions of crisis and social misery. I ask the question why the Republic Institute for Information and the Internet? It's normal for someone to have a role to play, but then what does the Ministry of Telecommunications do? Is this just beyond what is necessary, as we watch on television lines in front of people's kitchens, and does the government act as thrifty as it requires of its citizens? It is not enough, Mrs Dragutinovic, to adopt a budget proposal for any year, to print it, publish it and stand somewhere, the law must be materialised in practice, not inapplicable in practice. We heard in previous exhibitions from colleagues that various companies also have Djelic, and Shaper and Đilas, and I would point to a probably nice sentence, in Dubrovnik, in the Prince's Court, above the door, carved into a stone is a beautiful sentence – those who manage public affairs, let them forget... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34049	I'm sorry, I thought you were done with that. You have 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34050	It's not a problem. When you put on the lion's skin, under the lion's skin you can see donkey ears. It's interesting that this government is doing something that is just so aggressive, aggressive, that maybe some others have not done before, this government is doing something that Robin Hood is doing, taking from the poor and giving to the rich. Now we agree that time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34051	On page 7, the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Gojko Radic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 7 by MP Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On article 7, the 48th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS and through this amendment are trying to curb the government of the Republic of Serbia in spending Serbia's money on useless agencies. One of them is the Agency for Efficiency, which was founded in 2002, with the task of contributing to the efficiency of the national energy system and ensuring the country's energy security. What kind of energy security is best told by the situation from a year ago, when we didn't have natural gas in the course of the gas crisis in 24 hours? The citizens of Serbia were freezing for 15 days, and because of that, according to your tried-out recipe in Serbia, no one responded. Although we own a natural gas storage facility, the Banatski dvor, with a respectable capacity and natural gas, we don't even know how much gas we've been waiting for this warm season and winter. On the basis of the Law on Free Access to Public Information and the Instructions for the publication of the Informor on the work of the State Authorities, all agencies, including the Energy Stability Agency, had an obligation to publish the Agency’s Work Informationor. The Agency's work informer was published, however it has not been updated since 19 March 2007. What does that really mean? That by the 2010 budget, you've provided for a budget of 14.230,000 dinars for the Agency that we don't know what's going on, that we don't know what her function is, what's going on. The organization structure of the Agency is just a story to itself. The Director of the Agency has ten assistants, no less than 10 advisors. I don't think anything like that can handle a much richer state than Serbia. Of course, that is not all, in the potential sources of revenue or funding of agencies, besides the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the World Bank and the EU, despite the 107 billion dinar deficits, as foreseen in the budget for next year, you have given the possibility that the Agency could be in debt through commercial loans and thus indirectly owes the Republic of Serbia the budget. For all things said, I think that this agency, like all agencies, should work on the economic or commercial principle, the market principle, and not like this, radio-unworked, receive 14 million dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34053	On Article 7th, the 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34054	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, 14 years after the war, several tens of thousands of refugees, Serbs expelled from Croatia, BiH, live in literally unbearable conditions, with no roof over their heads and absolutely no income. For this reason, the SRS has proposed that the appropriations provided for for this purpose be increased. I'll use the remaining time to ask two questions. The first question – why did the Serbian government not predict in the next year's budget a single dinar for the construction of the Great Plan's water factory? Who knows what time I'm reminding you, five years of 50,000 people in the Great Plan, among them 7,000 children, are drinking broken drinking water for a drink that is extremely harmful to health. We have been pointing to this problem for five years, but within five years, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not singled out a single penny to solve this problem. The construction of this water factory would solve the issue of water supply and Smederjevska Palanka. It's about 105,000 people. The second question – is the Ministry of Health aware of the extremely difficult situation in the area of healthcare in the municipality of the Great Plan, which is due to the lack of doctors and whether the budget has provided for the means to address this problem. What's this about? Doctors at the House of Health "Milan Bane Djordjevic", in the Great Plan, instead of the 24 patients daily standard, are on average looking at between 50 and 60 patients. I think that's how doctors and patients are humiliated, because they have to wait for hours to get their exams in order, and doctors can't do their job properly. I wonder if there is a possibility, if the Ministry of Health has provided for the means to enable the House of Health in the Great Plan to make the reception of the new necessary doctors.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34055	The amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Lazic to article 7 of the 58th and 59th paragraphs. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34056	The amendment to Article 7 aims to reduce the funds provided for services under the contract of the Ministry of Trade, because otherwise the question is asked – what will the ministry employees deal with and are they competent enough when the services under contract provide for a huge amount of money? When the whole story of the rationalization of the administration is taken into account, it is concluded that the administration is massive. So, if there are too many employees, the question arises – why are they not able to do a job that is actually foreseen to allocate additional funds for services per contract? On the other hand, the DSS parliamentary group predicted that these funds should be used to support drug abuse prevention programmes, prevention and early type two diabetes detection, as well as prevention and treatment of malignant tumours. The trend in the modern world is to invest the most in these programmes. The reason is simple, and this is that these diseases, like many others, are treated much more effectively at an early stage, and even at that stage, complete healing is possible. This significantly reduces mortality and saves money, as prevention is much cheaper than treatment, and preserving the health of the nation is priceless. According to some data, about 80% of the pathology treated at clinical centres was actually possible to treat at lower levels of health. Statistics speak for themselves. In Serbia, there are about 500,000 people with diabetes, which is about 6.7%, while in Europe the percentage is incomparably smaller and is 2.5%. That's more than twice as much. In Serbia, about 30,000 people die annually from malignant tumours, and 19,000 people die. Mortality is significantly higher because prevention and early detection are insufficiently represented. Many of these diseases, as well as breast cancer and uterus cancer, can be fully cured if treated at an early stage and therefore the DSS parliamentary group considers it necessary to define greater resources for these programmes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34057	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to division 59, and economic classification 422 - travel costs, where I ask that the amount of five million and 500 thousand be replaced by 500 thousand dinars. So I ask that travel costs be reduced by five million dinars. If, in your explanation for budgeting, you said that it is restrictive because there are negative tendencies and the global economic crisis, then all of what we have warned you about for two years, that the uncertain start of recovery of the economy and its duration, then the funds for travel costs should be adapted to these conditions. They have been reduced, however, compared to this year's budget, but remain inappropriately large. You, in your explanation for not accepting my amendment, have said that most of these funds are directed towards the travel of employees to implement health system reforms for the basic education of employees from different areas of health. From personal experience, I am telling you that doctors and other medical professionals, nurses and technicians must by their personal means finance their travel and stay costs at various seminars, conventions, etc. and other activities on which it is necessary to collect a number of points for repetitive work licences, so those involved in this programme and the project should at least partially participate in travel costs. The medical resources should be deployed more justly. We have an objection to the services under contract. There are enormous resources that could focus on travel costs. Another source could be additional resources in health care. Here we have about 30 billion dinars that citizens extract from their pockets for various medical services that we do not know how they are spent and we have a reasonable suspicion that they are the source of corruption in health care. Unless you again accuse the accountant of corruption and accidental spending of funds and citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34059	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34060	Madam Minister, do you have before you a draft budget and a response to this amendment? If you have, you will see that your answer is completely pointless, if you wrote a reply to this amendment, but you did not write it yourself. Therefore, this section provides that the funds amount to 75 million 102 thousand, and that economic classification is to say other grants and transfers. I ask you, what are the other donations and transfers? Who's transferring who, who's donating whom? Do you know anything about that? We predicted that these funds would be transferred to a preventive program, drug abuse, and alcohol abuse. You find this program unfounded? Something that's completely unknown about how money is spent, we're asking it to move into a program that we're absolutely certain is needed by this country. You answer that the amendment is not accepted because it does not specify which programs and projects should be reduced by how much. Which is not true. I'm talking about a pair of taxpayers, and we're asking him to move to what's serious, which is important to this country. You're saying this budget has been developed. Here's how developed it is. Mika's transferring Zika, and Zika's transferring to Mika. You don't know who he donates to. That's how 75 million goes. Accept this amendment. Think of yourself once already.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34061	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia to split 60 of this law. My amendment concerns more and university education and above all specialised services in the field of these institutions, with a special emphasis on international co-operation of students and lecturers. In fact, the amendment and this member of the law stipulates that 150 million dinars should be allocated for these purposes, and I have asked that this sum be 50 million less, or 100 million dinars. As for the international exchange of students and lecturers themselves, to be clear, I have nothing against it, but I believe that at the time of this economic crisis we should take care of every dinar. You boast, not only here, but in other places, that you have abolished visas, so I believe that if you have already abolished visas, which from tomorrow or the day after tomorrow will come into force, that at least amounts to what our students, professors, lecturers and other high-school associates have given for paying visas when they get to the embassies of foreign countries, even if they have less need to allocate their money, and that is another reason more to reduce these funds. You could have channeled these funds in a different way. One way is that these funds that I've specified to be saved could have been invested in a high education infrastructure that you know is in a catastrophic state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34063	On Article 7th, 60 amendments were submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment that I submitted to the 2010 Budget Bill on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group relating to Article 7 of Section 60, in which the expenditures and expenditures of direct and indirect budgetary users to which the Ministry of Education has competences. This section mentions Chapter 60.7 concerning the Office for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education, which is based on the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, which we adopted here a few months ago, in this same Assembly and which, under the provisions of this Law, should deal with the evaluation and implementation of the general principles and objectives of education at certain levels of education. My amendment specifically refers to function 980, the main programme 2001-04 - editing and deadline of the education system. The EC 423 is a contract service. In column 9, the proposer provided for 10 million dinars in the budget for these services, and in column 11 the total amount is 14 million 404 thousand dinars, which I believe is too high. I suggest reducing these funds by about eight million dinars, so in the new version this sum is 20 million 147 thousand dinars, i.e. in column 11 total sum of 6 million 404 thousand dinars. As always on such occasions, the question arises, where is the smartest to reroute and we suggest that it be in the Peace Fund (President: Time). ) a reserver, who unfortunately the Government did not...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34065	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34066	I have submitted an amendment to the classification, which is set out in the budgets defined by the Ministry of Faith in the Service under contract, with eight million to cut to five million. I believe that a socially responsible ministry, such as the Ministry of Faith, is in one of the socially responsible governments that you represent, is that these are very large funds, and especially since there are funds in the next position to finance NGOs of 47 million dinars. I thought there was a mistake when they identified such high funds. However, when the argument came from the government, I realized that I was wrong and I was a little confused and disappointed about it. Knowing the expertise of Minister Bogoljub Šijakovic, I cannot believe that he cannot find in his expertise a certain level of management skills and organise the Ministry of Faith and do a job, not hire some third parties. A man who lives in two countries works in three countries in four jobs, I guess he has so many management skills that he can organize his own ministry. Especially since there is a section in the budget work called the 2010 Budget and Economic and Financial Policy Memorandum, 2011 and 2012. In chapter 3, point 9 says: religion and the most important goals of religion reform in the medium term, people are recommended to reform religions. If they are so smart that they can reform religions that have existed in this form for several thousand years, so I guess they're able to do a little work in their ministry, so they can finish the job, not hire third parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34067	The 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, the fundamental remark I will make here on behalf of the SRS from Article 8 to Article 49 relating to incomplete legal provisions, as the motioner went with certain indicators and legal norms that are incomplete and unclear. On the other hand, they repeat certain legal provisions already adopted and which are already an integral part of certain laws, which is unnecessary in this law. Budget implementation in all budgets of the world is very short and very clear, with clear deadlines. Here, over 40 members have gone on certain changes and certain attitudes that do not belong to this legal project. In particular, I went to the delete in Article 8(1) and asked that the words "and pay" be deleted. In fact, it is the basis for the calculation and payment of taxes for civil servants and tenants, as provided for by this Article and Article 1 and requested that it be deleted. Why? Because the basis for the calculation and the basis for payment are completely different financial categories. They can't be in the same financial amount as you listed here. That's the amount of 16049. If certain financial categories that are included in this payment system are applied, we cannot obtain the same amount. That's why I asked for a wipe. You gave me the following in response, or the Government. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Law on the salaries of civil servants and deputies defines the term (President: I thank you. ) the basis for the calculation and...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34069	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34070	In the introduction of the budget, we heard from the promoter to advocate public sector reform, to reduce public administration costs. We haven't heard of anything going to happen. In Article 8, you can see that. Namely, the basis for the calculation of the profits of civil servants remained the same. The state would indeed implement an excellent reform if it informs the state administration to abolish unnecessary institutions, one seven-eight ministers, advisers, assistants and state secretaries. We have the largest government in Europe and one of the world's three largest. A few months ago, we talked about how much the burden of 45% of the public spending that the economy is financing is dangerous for its competitiveness. Now we have a lot of unemployed people, something has to be done in the field of expenditure, not just declarative but concrete. The ministries must be reduced and the government must be reduced. Nothing would have happened, but it would have saved a lot. This is how we have an army of state secretaries, assistants who can't do anything concrete, and that only satisfys the appetites of coalition partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34071	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34072	In Article 8. The proposal for this law was provided by the Government for a net amount of 28 000 for prosecutors, a deputy public prosecutor, or for their profits, which is absolutely illegal since it is a gross basis for payment in accordance with the law, and the net basis represents only the accounting category. There's something very interesting here that you from the government actually tried to hide the majority from the eyes of the public and you calculated very perfiduously into so-called. judicial reform. Obviously, you agreed with Mr. Nenad Konstantinovic to submit the amendment. If you had accepted what was in his amendment, if you had already put it in the draft budget, then the debate would have been reopened in parliament on how right we were in the SRS when we claimed how harmful judicial reform would affect all segments, citizens of Serbia, anyone who participates eventually in court disputes and, of course, citizens of Serbia who fill the budget. You have accepted this amendment, and not putting it in the draft budget has made it impossible for us to tell Serbian citizens that through that reform from citizens' pockets, completely unnecessary, you will pay transport costs of several hundred kilometres to prosecutors and judges who you have moved from you known reasons in the way they did not want to themselves, that you will pay out of the pockets of Serbian citizens the costs of housing for people living in one place and who have a settled housing issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34073	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34074	Madam President, Mrs Dragutinovic, article 8 is just opening the third chapter of the draft budget law – budget implementation. I don't know if you've noticed, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, that this head, or budget execution, is becoming more and more extensive each time, which means only one thing, is that there are more exceptions to the already broken budget system law. Not to remind you of the deadlines that you have traditionally violated when it comes to this law, but I will remind you that the IMF insists on respecting the budget law and if something needs to change in it, then make a proposal for that law, so we can make some changes in it. It's not a good budget that's not meant for this kind of thing to be regulated. We don't need exceptions, then maybe we don't need this bill either, we don't need other laws, but we can rule regulations, someone can coronate in the state and in the government, so that it runs the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 8, under the Law on Judges and the Law on Public Prosecutors, a way of paying off profits to judges, prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors and those regulations is laid down to be the basis of the 28,000 dinars net. I remind you that the Court Tax Act predicts that 60% is used to invest in judicial authorities and in current expenditures. You've also made a change in percentages here, and what I particularly care about is that 30% of the cabs picked up are supposed to go directly to pay off the judges and public prosecutors. I believe that court fees as their own income by the judicial authorities should be used to equip courts. I don't know if you're familiar with the fact that there is no court building in Kragujevac, and the Justice Ministry announced on January 1st that a reformed judiciary in Serbia will start functioning. It may be tried in the squares or under the plum, but in January simply the weather won't allow it. If you have not used "stelt" technology, I remind you that your colleague from the Justice Department reminds you that on January 1st, some judges who are due to take over should start doing so in January. The fact is, since January 1st, it won't work. I'm afraid it won't work until March 1st. Therefore, I ask you that what the courts are picking up, let us help these people to do their job in a quality way by investing in building equipment and in all the resources necessary to do their job quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34075	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34076	This member of the law refers to the participation of funds in the financing of salaries in the judiciary. It's supposed to go in percentages here, make the proportion 70% of the budget, 30% of the court fees. Our amendment predicted that this relationship would change and 60% would be out of the budget, 40% of the revenues on the basis of court fees. This amendment was rejected by the excuse that the most rational relationship was 70-30. See now how you rejected Mr. Petkovic's amendment – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Law on Court Taxes defined that 60% of the taxis charged will be used for investments in judicial authorities and current expenditures, and the other 40% of us predicted to go for wages. We wanted to make sure that, if it means anything, you're disbursing the budget, because if you make an insight into this budget, you weren't very modest or you were very gallant when it comes to the judiciary, even though we've been talking about rationalization all year. Especially when it comes to specialised services, contract services, material costs, or buildings and construction facilities, etc. What is now the question of what is most rational, 60 - 40, as the Tax Law predicts, or 70 - 30, as you predict in the budget? You can talk about everything, but the rationality in this budget is really little space. Look at this example, and that's what I'm gonna end up with. The Ministry of Regional Development - a special item, the Office of the National Council for Decentralisation – a specific item, the Agency for Regional Development provided for by law – a special item, the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped Areas – in particular, the Coordination Body – in particular, etc. There's no story of rationalization here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34077	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs. Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have tabled an amendment in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group on Article 9, where we have suggested that Article 9 behind the words "pays the wages" be deleted and the rest of the text is deleted. We felt that perhaps, in fact, by reshaping the member himself, we should allow all services to bear the burden of the crisis equally, because the crisis is otherwise an excuse for a lot of things in the budget, especially when it comes to giving to citizens, except for those social ones where a really special extraordinary effort seems to reach what is needed. Last year, we had the Prime Minister's assurance that the government would be the first to bear the burden. The government was the first to bear neither "t" from the burden nor to deprive itself of any of its advantages. I was just explaining the previous amendment, speaking of the cabinet costs of the Deputy Prime Minister, I made it clear. So we felt that this amendment, or perhaps by reshaping the member himself, could bring a little more justice, and a little more real and real savings when it comes to the various services of the government that are great consumers, given how much in the ministries and agencies, in vice-presidential cabinets is spent on contract services, and for the citizens of Serbia, the services under contract are one of the most interesting money laundering instruments. I think it could really be saved fairly, not falsifying savings that don't actually exist at government level.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34079	The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34080	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 9 says - based on Article 48(4). The law on salaries of civil servants and deputies determines the percentage of the total amount of salary funds intended to achieve the results of the work of the lessors and 1% of the monthly payment fund for the month preceding the month for which the salary is paid and for the administration for the joint operations of the republican authorities and the government’s aviation service of 15% of the monthly payment fund. My amendment is to replace Article 9 per cent ‘1’ with a percentage of ‘3’. We believe that this percentage must be increased by stimulating and rewarding the more creative work of the tenant. In response, I was given, among other things, to say that the amendment is not accepted since this budget does not provide for funds to pay off jobs for the work of the tenants. The question is automatically raised – why are these funds not intended to be equated in some way? A colleague of Zivkov's will get tied up by this 15% later. Why didn't they respond in time not to create these differences, regardless of what 70% of those who are employed in the Republic's authorities, the government's airlines that have those 15%? All under some cloak that there is no money, that must behave domestically, that the budget is very modest and intended for development, and in fact whether it is so, many economic experts, we see these days, which do not agree with you from the Government, say that it is not, in fact, that savings by year will not be a priority of the state administration, which shows this budget and that this budget could indeed be called consumer. For the next amendment, since I don't have any more time, I'm going to try to give examples that show it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34081	The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov, who wants to explain the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34082	As the previous speaker, esteemed counterpart Skrbic said, the minister did not react, nor gave a goodwill sign that he wanted to fix the law with this amendment submitted by Milan Skrbic. In this amendment, which I have submitted to Article 9, the percentage “15%” is replaced by “3%”, i.e. If Mr. Skrbic's amendment were to be respected, of course, here is a situation where we would remove from 15% to 3% and even the work of civil servants and tenants. The issue with me is the amendment - for what reason the airline, i.e. The Joint Affairs Administration has a higher percentage of the work prize than in other services. I think it's just a matter of goodwill here, not a big difference in accepting one and another amendment. Since you did not want to accept Mr. Skrbić's amendment, I believe my amendment will not be accepted, but I appeal to Mr. MPs, who I do not even know how to convince, since they are not in the O.R., that in the day of voting they vote for these two amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34083	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milutin Jelic, Radoslav Mojsilović and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10, where I request in Article 2, that the words "on an existing level" be deleted. I will read item 2: "If the budget is reduced during the year, the expenditure will be carried out according to the priorities, and the obligations set out in the legislative rules, at the existing level and the minimum constant costs necessary for the smooth functioning of the beneficiaries of the budget." If income is reduced, if the budget is not made as much as planned, then nothing can be kept at the existing level, but must be proportionally reduced and expenditure to balance the budget. This way, at the existing level, you will keep the minimum fixed costs and obligations laid down by the law, and where are you going to make up for it? That is why we in the SRS believe that if you fail to achieve it, and all the opportunities are that you will not achieve this kind of inflow of funds into the budget, regardless of what you have decided to borrow to the last one, you will introduce us into debt slavery, however, and yet you will not be able to achieve it, because we are already expecting that perhaps the longest or two you will rebalance the budget. It can't then at the existing level be bound by the legal regulations and the minimum actual costs, but it'll all be proportionally reduced, in order to balance the budget, because if this stays here, then you'll have to cancel somewhere on the other side, and usually cut where the rental is, on citizens' standards, and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34085	Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34086	That the amendment arrived in the same text from different parliamentary groups should have been taken seriously as a warning to the Government that this position in Article 10 should not remain, and it should be sought, translated in plain folk language, that the government should get free hands so that funds from the budget can be spent in some other way that will not be established by this law. That no congregation has the right to vote on its government, the government must not think so. The government is not a private company, the budget is not a private gain, the budget is owned by Serbian citizens and they have the right to check each item at any time and to gain insight into the spending of funds they have painfully raised in this budget. So we're asking to delete Section 3. We've been given a reason why the amendment is being rejected. This government's behaviour is only possible on condition that the adoptions of the Republic of Serbia's budgets are made less than planned, and that will certainly be, given everything that happens extremely in 2010. The derogation from the rules is conditioned by the situation in which public spending is located in 2009 and 2010, due primarily to the impact of the global economic crisis, when it is necessary to respond extremely quickly and operationally, or react in a way that provides funds. The government, under the pretext of the global economic crisis, which I said would be an excuse for all possible problematic financial transactions, is demanding that this parliament also vote this kind of trust. I do not think that freedom and that kind of courage must be shown either as MPs, nor as representatives of citizens at this time, nor that we should support this member in this form.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34087	Mr. Nenad Popovic has a word. Here you go. You'll have to put the card back on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34088	We've spoken several times that the government doesn't respect the laws and this budget we've won with delay. It seems that the practice of getting a budget proposal every year is one month and a half too late. But, well, that's tolerated. According to this practice, it seems that you have decided to make exceptions to the application of the Budgetary System Act, by proposing to suspend the provisions of this law and allow the Government to bring the neutral assets from certain appraisals into the budget reserve and benefits for purposes not provided for by the 2010 budget law or, if I quote, the funds provided for are not sufficient for those purposes. This, slightly speaking, is not correct. With one position in article 10, you propose not to respect the provisions of the budget system law and the 2010 budget law, which we are still discussing. We're discussing him, he doesn't exist yet. This is truly unimaginable for any country, but the government that calls itself pro-European is not ready to accept the basic values of Europe. We believe that without the consent of the Assembly in a procedure that is known, which is the procedure for budgeting, the government cannot and must not spend any single dinar outside the framework of the budget law. That's how it's regulated by our internal regulations, and that's how it has to stay. Under the Constitution, the Assembly makes budgets and decides on expenditures, not the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34089	MP Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry there aren't a few more MPs here who support this government, but what is proposed in article 10 is at least humiliating for the National Assembly. My colleagues who spoke before me in one part tried to explain what was going on. So, by not accepting this amendment, there is a general meaning of the budget law and it is at all a question of the meaning and existence of the Budgetary System Act, because now, with Article 10 and a part of the Budgetary System Act, we are putting aside the power and empowering the Government to determine, according to its estimates, that money will be spent from the Republic of Serbia's budget, according to its own needs. Madam Minister, it would be best if the budget law contained only the revenue side, how much money we're going to get, that the budget is coming in, and on the other hand it's only the spending side, and it's synthetics, without analysis, and you're spending as best for you as it is for you. That's what you wrote to article 10. If you had at least set yourself certain limits, it could, but up to that amount, up to 1.5% of the budget, that would make some sense. There's nothing in this case. I leave the possibility of abuse, because once something is done wrong, it becomes a practice. So, the abuse is that the income side can be unrealistic, that you call on Article 10(3), and that you carry it out in action. One more thing, Madam Minister. Why, then, when you give yourself such great rights and powers, you didn't predict that article 61. The budget system law no longer applies to local self-government, as they work under the law and spend budgets. That's the problem. I don't think the National Assembly can transfer its powers to the government, and the excuse can't be even a global economic crisis (President: Time. ) no flu pandemic. Here, the flu is now your fault for everything, just to give yourself too much authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34091	The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Mr. Buha wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34092	When I explained the previous amendment that it was an unnecessary introduction of the legal provisions, I thought of this article too. Namely, Article 10. The draft budget law is a distorted picture of everything provided for by the Budgetary System Act in Articles 61, 62 and 63. I think they're adopted members. It's about the law passed, the law being implemented, a far better explained situation in which a state can be found, as we are currently in a huge deficit. In Article 10(3), there is so much illogicalness and I will read Article 10(3). He says: "In case the receipts of the Republic of Serbia's budgets are made less than planned and after the measures laid down in Article 62 have been taken, exclusively by Article 61. The Law on the Budgetary System, in 2010, the Government decided that the amount of the appraisal could not be used... "and it is not possible to use it because there is not enough resources, the further promoter says: "... enters into the current budget reserve... ". Something you don't have, put it in your current budget reserve. How is that possible? He goes on to say, "... and can be used for purposes which are not provided for by this law." Look, something that's not there, it's not enough, it's downgraded, it's being entered into the budget reserve for purposes not provided for by this law. Mrs Dragutinović, do you understand what is written here? He goes on to say, "or for purposes not provided for by means of sufficient volume." How about something that you don't have in your current budget reserve, so use what you want. (President: Time. Then you say, "for purposes that are not foreseen by means of sufficient volume."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34093	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Mr. Momir Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34094	Such a thing should be deleted from this proposal on the 1009 pages, then it must surely be deleted from Article 11. That's exactly what I was looking for on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. I'll read a member so the Serbian citizens understand what this is about, and you know, Mrs Dragutinovic. "Extremely from Article 100(5). The Law on the Budgetary System, the funds incurred by the compensation for public payments services, and neutralised in 2009, are transferred to use in 2010. What are the funds of public payments made? Are these taxes, taxes, additions, fines that this government has loaded on the back of Serbian citizens? Why weren't those funds spent where they were supposed to be spent? Did you take this a little deeper into the citizens of Serbia than you should have, regardless of the two, three rebalancings you've been doing? Now you're asking that those funds, since you haven't spent them, be transferred in 2010. Why don't you put them on social leave? The SRS believes that the government's rights must calculate up to 10 decimals and balance incomes and expenditures, spend as much as it can on income and no more income, so just in case it's in the vault. You said, if this member were to be deleted: "Since the limited balance options of the 2010 budget were not possible for the Treasury to provide funds from the budget, by accepting amendments, the most important body of the state administration for the implementation of the budget would not be able to function." It's better not to have one organ working in your ministry than to get 700 thousand more hungry. (President: Time. I don't count those who are on the verge of existence. I therefore believe that this amendment should be adopted and Article 11 deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34095	The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic and MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34096	Dear President, Madam Minister, we have a member of the 12th. The draft budget law, which defines the maximum amount of transfer funds to local self-governments, which is not in agreement with solutions under the special law, which regulate the area of funding for local self-government. So, regardless of the law of local self-government has the right to funds, this government decides on them to save. We believe that the reduced transfers to local self-government, as was the case this year, will compromise their functioning, and especially their investment activity, which, in the context of the economic crisis, is very important. Local politicians should be obliged to invest 20% of the budget in investments. This would help some small and medium-sized companies at the bar, who have no other way of getting state-funded projects because they are not competitive enough at the republican level, so they only have to do so at the place. Please reconsider these solutions and effects that will limit the transfer to local self-government to produce local economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34097	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34098	Article 12(1) is changed and it is said that I am not reading, that I am not wasting my time. Mostly, the explanation I gave about this member states that local self-government units received from the Republic of Serbia's budget during 2009. Based on the transfer and the reduced original income, many of them have created large debts that they will not settle. The obligations of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are to assist local self-government in creating preconditions for normal functioning and settlement of all obligations under local self-government. I was just talking about these problems that were created by reducing these transfer funds. Many positions and plans for investment are planned in the budget, when budgets for local self-government are also working. With quality projects, then eventually we get that reduction, and these investors, let me just say, pull the hand brake, they wonder if these municipalities are serious, if they can get into any arrangements with them. To point out that the municipalities also made their duties by their credit means, they themselves are in debt to attract investors. It is mainly about the preparation of infrastructure for bringing in foreign and domestic investors. We have now come to the situation that these investments have been stopped and that these investors, I repeat both foreign and domestic, are suing the municipality now because the municipality has not settled its obligations or pre-contracts or final contracts. They seek their lost time, seek their lost resources, for the municipality has not fulfilled its obligations. It's one of the problems that no one's talked about so far, and they impose themselves on local self-government precisely because of the reduction in transfer funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34099	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic, Srdjan Spasojevic and Zlata Djeric. Mr. Markicevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34100	President-in-Office, based on Article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, New Serbia MPs, including my little one among them, have submitted the next amendment. Article 12 of Article 1 adds Article 2 which reads as follows: "the funds for local self-government units that are categorized as undeveloped are increased in 2010 by 750 million", and paragraph 3 is deleted. A brief explanation -- undeveloped units of local self-government, 40 of them in Serbia, decreased funds for non-purpose transfer and thus brought into a very difficult position. If they are not provided with the funds we propose in the amendments to Article 12, the most basic functioning of these units of local self-government will be disabled and they will not be able to perform basic service activities for citizens. If we compromise the functioning of a third of Serbia's municipalities, undetermining these funds will make it difficult for all other levels of government to function, and therefore we propose that this amendment be adopted. Of course, the minister did not accept this amendment. On the one hand, it is logical that she treated the presidents of 40 municipalities representing a third of Serbia's territories over the past few months, that she did not even want to talk to them, that the presidents of the DS municipalities were forced and prevented from participating in these meetings. And this argument of this kind that I've given will be strengthened, I hope the president has the right to use the time that the party has. I think we've got about five or six minutes. What's this about? It is, Madam Minister, that I think that by not accepting this amendment, you are being discriminated against by the citizens of Serbia. That finally the government in Belgrade must understand that Serbia is not only a circle of two, but that Serbia and the following undeveloped municipalities in Serbia - Babusnica, Bosilegrad, Krupanj, Doljevac, Kursumlija, Merošin, Razanj, Raca, Svrljjig, Surdulica, Crna Trava, Ljig, Mininica, Lebane, Knić, Osecina, Raška, Gadjin han, Blace, Žitoradje, Bojnik, Vlasotince, Vladik Khan, Sjenica, Tutin, Žitište, Rekovac, Kljažvac, Shop, Presevo, Medvedja, Žabari and Malo Crnica, Plandište and so on a regular basis. So, when I read the explanation that the amendment was rejected, really if the citizens understood this, if I had time to explain this more how I know and know, we'd actually call this a hypocritical explanation. Here's what the minister says. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the proposed additional increase in the transfer funds to local self-government units classified as undeveloped would lead to a highly unfavourable position of at least 23 units of local self-government which are not categorized but which generate revenues below 50% of the average budget revenues per capita. According to this argument, it turns out that some 23 other municipalities, which are even more underdeveloped than these 40, would be damaged. I think this is a replacement, Madam Minister. Your city of Belgrade may be damaged here, so it would use non-purpose funds for promotional purposes, according to our Croat brothers, some specific political options. I have to remind you that these municipalities that I've listed here also have schools and also some children go to those schools and also those schools have to be heated, and these funds that I've proposed to replace in these municipalities, it's nothing to them, but that last year's regulations and decisions...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34101	You used a minute and 40 seconds of MP group and your two minutes. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34102	Madam President, Madam Minister, the amendment proposes amendments to Article 13(1) by allowing instead of a provision allowing public undertakings, a public agency established by the Republic of Serbia to determine independently the payment dynamics of the 2009 final account budget. The amendment we are proposing should contribute to a more evening of the budget, as it foresees a quarterly payment dynamic, and that is very important, in equal and not arbitrary amounts. This way, through a clearly defined dynamic, which is very important to you in the budget, it will prevent entities from making payments to profits in the Republic budget from prolonging or adapting to their own needs, not the needs of founders. If these are public enterprises, then they should meet not only the needs of citizens, but the public finances, or the budget that we are talking about today. Next year, an inflow of around 13.6 billion dinars is expected to be in the budget of public enterprises. It is very important that this figure that is significant in the budget is achieved by quarterly dynamics at equal amounts. How realistic this figure will be only after the final accounts, likely to reflect a crisis year, perhaps even a course, but the big problem is still with public enterprises, that they are not reformed and that they still have a large number of workers. Madam President, I will now use my time as an authorised representative. You have five minutes, please. I thank you. I'd like to go back to the priority topic. I repeat that I think that at this time of crisis priorities should be very similar to those set by other European countries, which is primarily the preservation of domestic economy and the preservation of citizens' standards. I don't think we have any strategy to help the economy in this crisis time. It is of course, Madam Minister, not relevant to you, I highly appreciate your work and you can see that, and most MPs. Here I address the government with criticism, first of all Prime Minister Cvetkovic and the government as a system. The government doesn't have any program or plan. The problem is that Prime Minister Cvetkovic said the government gave a billion euros to help the Serbian economy. That's not true. The government helped Serbia's economy with only 50m euros in interest-bank subsidies, 950m euros in banks themselves. Banks would work with the economy anyway. The prime minister says "Government and banks", it's like when we say -- us and the Russians 200 million, exactly the same. Government and banks - a billion. That's not true, the government only gave away 50 million businesses. The big problem is that the Albanian government has given 200 million to its economy for the same purpose, which Croatia plans to give a billion, has already given close to 400. The problem is also Serbia's economy, small, medium, large enterprises, entire economies, liquidity, poor financial balances. Here, talk to everyone, all MPs have friends who have small, medium or large businesses, all have bad balances. When they get to the bank, the bank's looking for a mortgage, looking for some collateral, looking for supplies, companies don't already have it, because they've already taken loans. The only way to be correct, to help those who generate income for the budget, which is business and businesses, we need to direct their loans through the Development Fund, which does not have as many difficult criteria for lending as banks do. Today, in Serbia, 70,000 enterprises are inequitable. Might even increase that number, unfortunately, God forbid it gets bigger. Companies that are liquid today, theoretically 'liquefied', have a payout problem for employees, have a problem getting repromary. Today at a time of economic crisis, all suppliers, foreign or domestic, are looking for advance payments, simply businesses can't live without credit right now, must be helped by the state. That is why there is a Development Fund, that in this crisis period, such as other governments, focussing money on the Development Fund in a much larger size, five or ten or twenty times as much as it has today, and these loans to be given to small, medium and large enterprises, but on a slightly different basis, with much more liberal requirements. On the other hand, companies can't do anything with bank loans for a year. Trust me, there's nothing you can do with a loan for a year. These loans must even be for liquidity at a time of economic crisis for three to five years, for liquidity at three to five years and for a grace period of a minimum year, sometimes two years. The crisis will take the biggest swing in the next year, and just in that year, maybe two, we have to allow businesses not to pay percentages to the Development Fund or to another institution, as the government decides, but to give them some air to raise, to leave employees, and to be able to obtain the normal production process to get out of this crisis, so if it is good and God willing to raise them. I don't think the government headed by Prime Minister Cvetkovic understands and those claims that we gave 50m euros for subsidized loans did nothing to the economy. She may have given some companies some air, but that's one, two or three percent of the company. The big problem is that there are 97% of companies and the government would really be able to direct the funds that exist, let's take the credit, let's take the loan, let the government take another billion credits, but let's invest it in the economy. No loan is expensive if it is invested in domestic economy, but any credit is too expensive if we spend it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34103	It's been spent half a minute since the MP's time. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34104	On behalf of the DSS, I have submitted an amendment to make it 15% for budget users instead of 50% for budget payments. My logic and logic of this amendment was this: I would like the budget to be filled better. In fact, 50% of zero is zero, and 15% of 10 million is a million and a half. In other words, if you completely destimulate budget users in this way, they will not get, or most of their profits will be spent, either on the charm of small investments, or in other ways, through trips, journals, procurement of things, equipment, and like this, when they have a serious opportunity to keep the good part and gain, then they will also try to make a profit. I suggested 15%. That could be discussed, maybe it should be 10, 15, 20%, I can't judge at this point, but I am deeply convinced that such a government policy would, and in the future, stimulate budget users to have profits. This way, if in advance they know that half of the profits will have to go back to the budget, and get scared they won't be or will be very little.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34105	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, we have tabled an amendment to Article 13, where we asked for the "Budget of the Republic of Serbia" to be placed on the stand, and the words "as far as the dynamics they determine" are being deleted. We considered it sufficient for a member who obliges public enterprises and agencies, as well as other forms of organisation, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, to pay funds from profits to the budget according to the final account and the payment dynamics should not be provided, a deadline that must be respected. In fact, if, as we have already said, we are constantly calling for an economic crisis, the burden of the global economic crisis should be shared with citizens and public enterprises, and we all know first and foremost how many revenues public enterprises have made, that we do not talk about how many times we have dealt with apravities in the boards of these public enterprises, and that, in these public enterprises, the funds have been made in very irrational ways, so let the managers of these public enterprises choose to deal more responsibly with the property of public enterprises, and therefore according to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to which they have received these very lucrative functions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34107	The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34108	Article 13(2), the legislator proposed that the Management Board be responsible for acting in accordance with the position of the 1st member, is meant to be paid to the company. The legislator has again come out of the scope of jurisdiction, and this directly entered into the revision of the legal rules establishing the rights and obligations of the boards of directors and directors. It's the Company Act, the Public Business Act, the Public Agency Act. It provides for the rights and obligations of boards and directors. This proposal includes a provision which is contrary to these rules, with system regulations. We're changing our budgets with something that's been resolved, on the other hand, changing that. No law knows that, we're changing those provisions. We can't do that. No law in the history of legislation has ever had that provision. In response to this amendment, you say next. The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 13 is exactly contained in the draft law in order to further call for payment obligations and obtaining public undertakings and agencies. Mrs Dragutinovic, the board of directors does not pay the profits, the director pays. The employer is the director, not the board of directors. You cannot call for the responsibility of the President and the members of the boards of directors if the entity does not comply with the obligation to pay the benefits, as provided for in Article 1 of this Act. You're in direct violation of the laws. All that you have stated in the implementation of the budget from eight to 49 is contrary to the provisions of the Budgetary System Act and these system laws that I have stated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34109	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Zoran Antic and Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34110	Article 13 is, as you have heard, required this time by every public enterprise, agency and other forms of organization to pay at least 50% of the final profit account they make, according to the dynamics they determine. We have submitted an amendment requesting a criminal provision for this order given to Article 13, that if the Management Board does not comply with the obligation set out in this Article, the Government shall decide on the resolution of members of the Management Board, with a permanent ban and their appointment to any public office. For example, the Commercial Bank, which has never paid a share of the budget so far, will have to, this time, by the government's decision, if Article 13 is adopted to replace Ms. Vesna Djindjic as chairman of the board of directors. Wouldn't that be good? So no one can claim that the board of directors does not have the authority or that the government intends to actually implement this if it does not adopt this criminal provision. We are witnesses that none of the obligations, nor the budget calendar, nor what the Budgetary System and Budget Act prescribes are respected if someone has no direct responsibility or damage called by their wallet or personal interest, when they suffer damage, they will take care of what they do. This is an opportunity to introduce such a responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34111	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. The word is Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34112	Madam Minister, what is the amendment that my colleague Donka Banovic and I have submitted? It refers to the requirement of Article 14 in the post-word position - mandatory social security, to place a point and to delete words - except for the elected, appointed and appointed persons in the judicial bodies, where the equalisation of wages will be carried out in accordance with the set of judicial laws. Now let's get this straight for the citizens of Serbia. So, before the law, they're all equal. All employees in this country must comply with the same laws and be treated in the same way. If we now exempt people who are employed in the judiciary, only judges and public prosecutors, that means that they are not equal with other citizens and they are positively discriminated against. Other Serbian citizens are discriminated against, as their salaries will be frozen in 2010. Only the judges and prosecutors will have the privilege of raising their salaries according to the set of laws they have passed. Be careful, in the last year when the state was already in crisis, when it was already known that we would have to save, however, a way was found for the state, or the government, after having appointed its judges and having appointed its party prosecutors, to find ways to reward them now and reward them and to be excluded from the burden of the economic crisis that all citizens must bear in their own way. So the state has its pets. They'll get paid, too. It's not true, so we have to save. It's not true that we all have to be equal in front of the law. This member clearly shows that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34113	Members of the 14th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Zoran Antić and Veroljub Arsic. The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34114	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that we have tabled on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Advanced Serbia's SNS is in favour of Article 13, as Article 14 provides for the freezing of salaries for all indirect and direct users of the RS budget. We asked this amendment to apply to everyone where the founder of the RS is. Just an explanation that it can't be regulated by the Budget Law, so at least it says in the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it's pretty funny. Because you have already suspended the Budget Law, that is to say, put aside the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. In one case, when it suits you, it can, and otherwise, when it suits you, it can't. I'd like to ask Mrs. Secretary a few questions. Does she remember last year's affair about "Nikola Tesla" and her director, Bojan Krist? Or all possible affairs and stories about JAT? Their wages are not frozen, and they will be able to spend as they please. Another question for Mrs. Minister - if this amendment does not accept, how does it feel to implement Article 13, i.e. that 50% will be paid into the RS budget from the company where the founder of the RS is, and not direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget, when will the entire profits be paid, everything they earned during 2009 to spend on salaries?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34115	Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buha, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34116	Article 14 The draft budget law is provided for the following - in accordance with the government's programme for the mitigation of the global financial crisis in 2010 - a nominal freeze of salaries for all direct and indirect beneficiaries of the RS budget, local authorities' units and mandatory social security organisations, except for elected, appointed and appointed persons in judicial bodies, where pay will be leveled according to a set of judicial laws. In my amendment's proposal, I asked for an erasure -- where pay equalisation will be done according to a set of judicial authorities, because the proposed formulation is incomplete and confusing. The unknown is who's going to make the pay even, and what does that legal term mean, the pay evening? What are the legal rules of a set of judicial regulations that point to the possibility of equalising wages? It is unclear whether the equalisation of wages is done strictly under the imperative provision of one of the judicial laws, or whether it is a social obligation resulting from the social economic crisis in society. Mrs Dragutinovic, again we note, you cannot enter into the provisions of the law something that is provided for by a set of judicial laws. The term - unification is not a financial term that can exist in the Budget Law. It's not. What does he mean? What are you getting that equation out of? If you said in this article that you would freeze the salaries of only certain categories of persons, you clearly said who you excluded. Why the unification? In what sense does unification, by which deadlines, by which regulations, who will do so, etc.? A stranger to an unknown. That's how the entire budget is written and the financial part and this part relating to the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34117	The 15th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic, MP Aleksandar Martinovic and MP Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Zlata Djeric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34118	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the NS parliamentary group has asked that article 15 be deleted as a whole, because we felt that this would bring serious injustice to all those who deserve some rewards and bonuses, and thus already humble in the budget. The amendment was rejected by reason that it is not accepted for reasons where the country faces the consequences of the global economic crisis, it is that copy paste, which appears everywhere and when the government is taking measures to rationalise the state administration, including through the freezing of wages and employment restrictions on all budgetary users and it is unacceptable to delete the said member, whose expenditures for employees are aligned with the balance options of the budget. You have some legal obligations, accepted and some other laws that must be enforced. Secondly, with that and that kind of savings and rationalization, I'm afraid that many times they're lost to dysgins, so for example, I have information that in one state college Christmases are intended for all, such linearly 60,000 dinars. It's a budget user. Then, I'm interested, given that I received 11 letters from my city, what it looks like when someone in the local self-government takes the severance money for leaving the workplace and getting rid of it, then hires a public enterprise, a public utility of the same local self-government, and then goes back to the same local self-government in the workplace, and then takes a substantial amount of money, and no one is responsible for it. It would be good, Madam Minister, I will deliver these letters to you, to check the allegations by budget inspection, because such abuses, I believe, are many, and such abuses prevent those who work fairly (President: Time). I'm just going to finish my sentence... And they deserve these rewards, very rare, so that they may receive them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34119	Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34120	Madam President, Madam Minister, here's one member that the DS thought should be deleted, and he refers to that part of the collective agreement regarding paying bonuses for Christmas, annual jubilee awards and other types of rewards and bonuses provided for in special individual and collective agreements. In this amendment to Article 15, we wanted to draw attention to the fact that there are a large number of people whose country is taking away all the rights that belong to them and it's no problem that you said you wouldn't pay this off, because this is part of a collective contract. You have neither collective agreements nor those you have respect for. You don't pay people or what they earn as a personal income. In the answer that I find most interesting, you answer that it's a major economic crisis and that you can't pay off this. What about the previous amendment where I tell you that there is an economic crisis, there is no advantage in the economic crisis, and you're telling me that they have a Lex specialist that allows these privileged people to get paid. Please, if it's an economic crisis, then I guess all the members of the budget are scheduled to monitor this economic crisis. Sometimes when it comes to those small, small, ordinary people, when they get paid Christmas benefits or some help, do you know how many houses you won't even have what belongs to Christmas because they won't have a chance to pay them a salary? On these small, tiny people, we're going to show that it's an economic crisis. We're not gonna show on those who have pretty big wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34121	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have filed in this Article 16. in the position of the 2nd amendment that has, I would say, a technical character. We even put that in our explanation. It is an interesting explanation that the amendment was rejected, where it is said that it would not represent a legal-technical correction but would essentially amend the proposed provision, and it is said below - since the word "responsible" is a link with the other positions proposed in Article 16. Furthermore, it continues: "In addition, by citing the term of the refunding of the expenditure incurred, it is too much to refer to financial refunding." This could have been too much at the beginning, to define it – it's too much, we don't accept it, but to say that we would change the essence, it really wasn't our intention and our intensity. I can accept the fact that you didn't write this, that's what the services wrote as they wrote it, but this is not the only explanation that's really superficial and that, in a way, it can, in those whom they suggested to cause the feeling that such an explanation might have made you want to mock the MPs. I just opened one question and I was denied that answer. I would really ask you to look here at the Environmental Protection Fund, Mrs Dragutinović, where some figures don't fit. Because there's 800 million missing here. Because it's impossible for a billion and 900 million dinars and some change to represent two billion and 39 million. That's not 800 grand, that's not eight million, that's 800 million dinars. So, something's wrong. Whether I'm wrong or if it's a technical mistake, it wouldn't be a bad idea if you could explain to us what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34123	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34124	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted to Article 16 of the amendment, which reads that Article 3 of Article 16 is deleted. It reads: ‘The refund referred to in Article 2(2) shall be considered as a way of carrying out expenditure in accordance with the Budgetary System Act’. I find this item 3 unnecessary in this article. Also, as the previous speaker explained for Section 2, i.e. Dragan Stevanovic, in the explanation that you have given, that an amendment that is not accepted, which I have submitted, would have collapsed Article 16, that it is just the essence of Article 16 as a whole, among other things, that there is no multiplication of income and expenditure, since the fact that the bill for municipal services and most cases is referred to the holders of the use of property. Then, in accordance with the proposed position 3, which I have proposed to delete in this law, it has been specified that budgetary users should plan the funds for the alleged expenditure needed only for their needs. It's a illogical explanation for me when this attitude 3 is at stake and I think that by this refunding, certain users, i.e. the owners of the property, the use of the assets, which are the holders, that some other contracts and other documents can achieve.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34125	National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Mr. Jojic wants to thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34126	Thank you, Madam President. Why did I make this amendment? I would just point out that the promoter really made one scandalous mistake so much that there is no Republic of Serbia in Article 16 and I began to doubt whether it was the republic of Kosovo and its budget or whether it was the budget of the AP Vojvodina. Because, according to the new ones, we now mention the government, and the congregation, and so on. If you'll excuse me, I would point out that the National Assembly must finally become the controller of the finance minister, the biggest enemy of the Republic of Serbia. See where the money went? See what the Messengers say. This is the harraklia, the finance minister, as he deployed these funds. You can see how much money goes for services by contract. Who controls that, Madam President? You need to establish control of the government. The government can't control the National Assembly. The government can't take over as an auditor. The auditor of the State shall be in accordance with the Constitution, as referred to in Article 92. He and the National Assembly must finally take control and establish power over the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're wondering why there's a deficit in the budget. Because in recent years, we've had a wasteful government, a government that spends huge resources, a government that doesn't know which side they're going to spend any more money on. Just take the difference between the ministries. The Ministry of Infrastructure has only 10 million specific costs, and the Ministry of Economy has 100 million for travel and service costs. Who controls the services by contract? There's crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34127	The People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta, submitted to the 17th Amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34128	This member is completely excessive because he represents a certain "lex specialis" in relation to the Bonds Act. In fact, Article 17 speaks about the conclusion of a contract on the use of business space, and this is exclusively the subject of the Law on Liabilities. Because renting a business space is a clean bond-law relationship. But you kind of like regulations or lex specials to edit certain areas of society because it's certainly in your best interest because that's how these things go beyond the public. True, the budget law is public, but when you put in this law with all these much more important items and this member, then it can be easier to pass without being significantly noticed. Under this member, the government can only determine the price of the lease and we said so. You said you didn't accept my amendment because you accepted the amendment of counterpart Nenad Popovic. I must remind you, Madam Minister, that our two amendments have absolutely nothing to do with each other. Kolega Popovic does not touch this article of yours 17, he retains it as the position of the first member of that future member who will now be so when you adopt the amendment of counterpart Nenad Popovic, and we think that this member should be deleted. You didn't actually answer us why you didn't accept the amendment to the SRS. How are you going to regulate something by budget law that regulates the Law on Bond Relations? I'll remind you, when I talk about my next amendment, how you said it was already regulated by some other law, so I don't need this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34129	On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami, who wants to explain his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34130	With this amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the DSS, of course we want to help fill the budget better. In fact, Article 18 of the Law provides that when a budget user rents some of its own space, all the money it earns goes into the budget. In other words, the budget user has nothing to do with it. By some logic, if someone has extra work space, if they don't have any income from betraying it, they won't just betray it. It's going to fit into extra space, because I'm not sure that budget users have an excessive awareness of the need to fill the budget. Our amendment provides that half of these funds remain for the budget user and half for the budget. I figure that this way budget users will be stimulated to behave rationally and that, if they have extra work space, temporarily or permanently, this work space and rent and thus obtain funds both to themselves and to the budget. I don't understand until the end of the reason why such a reasonable amendment has been rejected, unless we think that's how order works it should be in the budget. I'm not sure that this way some more significant revenues can be achieved, because, I repeat, budget users are not in any way stimulated to behave rationally.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34131	Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Zoran Antić and Veroljub Arsic. Mrs. Tabakovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34132	I am sorry that we haven't left more time for the story under this amendment, but in two minutes I will illustrate why the government, and I would rather accuse Minister Dinkic here, with the right, not Mrs Diana Dragutinovic as finance minister, of misusing money at his own discretion, without law, under the regulation, and that therefore Article 19 does not wish to be deleted at any cost. He's talking about the government's right to lend loans and to make their write-offs, and based on the criteria I'd say he's just supposed to determine the finance ministry. We can't leave you this right, because a member of the law like this was also contained in earlier budget laws and you never provided us with a report on the effects of these writings. It is not true that you have never written off funds on this basis, because for 2008 alone, the auditor's report says that 1.500,000 dinars are literally for write-offs, but you didn't just bookkeeping. Now, may I have your attention, please? The paper on which 621 acquisitions of financial assets are clearly seen is actually a loan to domestic non-financial public institutions, which does not say in any explanation, signed by Mr Mladjan Dinkic with his own solution. So, neither the law nor the criteria and the report that I have from May to the end of November with Mr Dinkic's decision on this basis of 688 million dinars. As my young colleague Sasa Maksimovic said, it is not only a way to reach censorship, but also a member of the 19 - purpose of restructuring, as a way to reach censorship. Most interesting, who appears here as the beneficiary of this restructuring? For example, IMT engines Rakovica, FAP, flag, trucks and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34133	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34134	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam Minister, under Article 19, it is possible that legal persons may receive credit from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but then the possibility of the Government of the Republic of the Fund being able to write off or convert them into the capital of the debtors has been left. We have suggested that, instead of the government, such a decision be made by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment was not accepted, and in an explanation you said that you accepted the amendment of counterpart Nenada Popovic, who said the National Assembly gave consent, i.e. that the government obtained consent from the National Assembly. We do not accept such an explanation, nor do we believe that this new member is now an effective member. A colleague Popovic works mostly with fair Russia and there is no easy way to drag his hands into their country's budget, it is respected. This isn't the situation. Madam Minister, you must understand our colleague Peter Jojic's suggestions in a different sense. He wanted to say that you, as finance minister, must be the biggest defender of these funds and sometimes you have to hit your soft hand with a fist on the table. That's what he wanted to say to Mr. Dinkic, and Mr. Dacic, and Sutanovac and all those who sometimes get carried away, so some dinar would have taken more, and we've already noticed in Article 7, what I was saying, that you tried through certain positions to unintendedly spend the funds and you were satisfied. The Ministry harmonised its needs, the budget, or you as finance minister, you could accept it as a whole, and then it represented some progress in these budgetary adoption activities. We can't agree on that as long as we have a situation like this. We do not have time to explain now how and how the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget are being spent. Listen to my colleague Peter Jojic's suggestions and it will be better for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34135	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Miroslav Markicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34136	In order to ensure transparency and transparency of the draft budget law on 1009 pages, a number of provisions on matter already defined by other system laws have been accumulated. This is also the case with Article 20, and that is the reason why this article is proposed to be deleted. It is well known to Serbian citizens that whenever loud stories about transparency, about the public, about transparency, about honesty, that there is necessarily an intention to hide something behind it, more specifically to hide some major irregularity. The introduction of such provisions in the draft budget law can only be understood as an intention that the next day, when you find yourself in a situation where an irregularity is discovered, blame the accountants and the dactylographs. I will quote the state auditor, Mr Sretenovic, who, at the meeting of the National Assembly Finance Committee, said the following -- when it comes to short-term commitments, we have found that they are the same amount, 36,369,255,000 dinars and most of it refers to liabilities based on a loan from the consolidated account of the Republic of Serbia, and in order to provide funding for the current liquidity deficit of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. The allowed amount of the loan from the consolidated Treasury account in accordance with the regulations shall be 60% of the daily balance of the previous days. We have determined that there has been an overrun in two cases, December 30th and December 31st. December 30th for 12 billion and December 31st for two billion. Loans were wrongly recovered within 30 days, and 35 billion were not recovered by the end of the financial year, contrary to the provisions of the Regulation and the Public Debt Act. The amount of debt to finance the current liquidity deficit at the end of the year exceeded the allowed level under the Public Debt Act. So it could only amount to 5% of total revenues made in the financial year for five billion. It would be good to know what this has to do with the accountants. Will someone take responsibility for this and how laws will be implemented in the future, when the auditor says the law has been broken right here. It is known how problems related to the current liquidity of the budget can be overcome. The way it was done in 2008 is not legal and the state auditor made it public.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34137	The 21st Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and MP Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34138	Dear Presidents, Madam Ministers, as we have several times proposed to cut the government and criticised this largest government in Europe, we also propose this amendment that the NIP ministry be abolished because it did not justify its existence. The Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development can fully carry out the work of the Ministry of NIP, so there is no point in spending money on its functioning. This way, we could really reduce spending, I'm talking about a specific ministry, because his work without any problems could be transferred as a minimum to the Ministry of Economy, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Infrastructure could provide enough support and practically avoid a completely unnecessary segment in the functioning of investment activity in Serbia. If you remember, when that ministry was formed, I must admit I was against it then, even though there was another government then, because I can't understand the existence of an investment ministry. It could then be justified because we had the privatisation money, but today when the privatisation money is gone or measured by tens of millions of euros, when the big investment projects are really gone today, I think it's logical, and I'm sure most of the ministers in the government would agree with this, that this ministry should definitely be abolished. Today we have major investments planned in Serbia, will be realised from the loan. A bridge - a loan from China, a reform, that is, the development of a railway - a loan from Russia, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development - for Corridor 10. We really don't need to have the NIP Ministry implementing budget allocations, and it doesn't run any projects. I'm saying, if there were to be major investments again, even though I'm generally against it, but I could accept the argument that this ministry exists, but that it's deploying non-chapter funds, and investment, or the state's assets, are derived from privatisation revenues.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34139	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34140	Madam Minister, you had to react because this is a very important amendment and accept it because of the fact that many abuses were from 2007 to today. I must remind you, this is the exact information Mr. Buha found, that the NIP started with 42 billion, and today the total amount is NIP 15 billion. We wanted this amendment, which I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to prevent the Serbian government from setting out the priorities of its regulations when it comes to spending money from the NIP, but to settle it by law. Why doesn't Serbia have a law on the National Investment Plan? In this way, you would avoid any speculation, and this is how the NIP ministry is justified. If you started with 42 billion, and now it's only 15 billion, if many projects approved in Serbia are not realised by the NIP, and there are many such examples, I will only list some in this time. The question arises why do you do this in the first place and what is the purpose of the existence of the NIP? How is it possible that, if you had any good intentions, but it was solely politically motivated, that the parties in power in local self-government were given money in the first year, and in the second year? In the case of a special hospital, Bukovica Banja Arangelovac, it is evident that it was not their intention to complete the project. It's been transferred out of 50 approved million CIPs for project documentation, and the rest to a special hospital. In Leskovec today there is a bile debate there in the SO city of Leskovec. The train station in Leskovic, which was reportedly to receive money from the NIP, Mrs. Djukic - Dejanovic, is as opened by the late president of your Serbian party, Slobodan Milosevic. Nothing touched. So it's all over Serbia. Therefore, you should have accepted this and placed it in the legal frameworks of spending so much money.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34141	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34142	I again point out that the National Assembly and you, Madam President, must put your authority to break up thieving practices, that ministers cannot spend as much money as they think and cannot afford to have the finance minister available in this way. Here's just one drastic example. How can a Minister of Science and Technology get to have 8.5 billion taxpayers' dinars without accounting for anyone? Tell me in which country that name is. Do you know of this amount, which is entrusted to Mr Djelic, that for this amount, eight thousand tractors can be collected and distributed to the peasants for free and given to these Serbian rich and fertile countries, to produce both for the country and for the market abroad. How is it possible that certain ministers don't account? I'm looking for an answer. If I'm wrong, I'll apologize to both the ministry and the government, but I will never apologize to the government for spending money unintendedly. No one's answering. Is there any evidence that any minister has submitted to the Assembly a report on this dedicated use of the funds he has received? Let's see, what kind of contract service does he pay? Are tourism services paid in Zlatibor, Tara, Kopalnik or abroad? You know, when you go abroad, every dinar, you take bills for one daily of 30 or 40 euros, but the finance minister and the ministers who raped themselves, they take power in their own hands, they spend both their hats and their hands, they don't account for the people of the Republic of Serbia. It's a numbering, wasteful government. Take control of yours and let the MPs control those who use it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34143	The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic wants to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34144	Madam Minister, we have foreseen this amendment to add the words "and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development" to the words "and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development". So, I fully agree with the previous amendment, which Mr Popovic spoke of, that this ministry is completely unnecessary, because the money is no more than privatisation, and that it is a completely useless ministry. But since you obviously won't accept that amendment, therefore, we have proposed this amendment to stand "The Ministry of Economy and Regional Development". For what? Larger funds for cities and municipalities located in less developed areas of the Republic of Serbia should be channelled during the NIP allocation for the organisation of the project. That's why we think this ministry should have been involved. There's just another fact being imposed, and I'll tell you why I don't think you've accepted it. You're at a meeting at the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, and you remember that, I was present about a month and a half ago, and you said you didn't know how to spend 150 billion dinars in Serbia. Was it true what you said, remember, a month and a half ago at the National Bank of Serbia? You see, the reason for your ignorance has its own cause, and this is exactly what the members who are standing in the budget are, that is, in the implementation of the budget. If you continue to act like this and write such members of the budget, next year I fear you will again say that we do not know how 200 billion dinars have been spent in Serbia. Is there any reason not to accept this amendment? Who should be involved in other projects like this? Well, the Ministry of Economics and Regional Development. So you're going by logic -- this ministry, here's a bag of money, it's my uncut property, I'm going to do what I want and what I want and I'm not going to report to anyone. It's the result of your work and the writing of a budget like this. I don't see any real reason not to accept this amendment. Show me your good will for once.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34145	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34146	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as my colleagues have said earlier, really here is the problem exactly what is written in the explanation, which is that the funds on behalf of the National Investment Plan will be distributed exclusively by a special act of the government. This is not the only law defined, i.e. the use of certain means or procedures at all, by special government acts. In the last few months, this congregation has passed a large number of laws that have responded to the fact that the area is governed by sublegal acts. This is particularly problematic, because this is about a national investment plan. These are national, if we understand that category correctly, national funds. I ask the minister, and I ask the representatives of the majority -- what is the model that the other part of the nation that doesn't do most participate in all this and makes its proposals. We're coughing in defining the programming of the budget. And all right. But it seems to us that this cassation is also accompanied by parliamentary control of budget spending, and in that sense the practice of countries in the environment, but more in developed countries has gone far. No one can convince us, and because of the fact that the sublegal act will allocate funds, there will be no implication of abuse, bias and I would say certain political ambitions of individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34147	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34148	Except for the specific remarks we had on Article 7. The draft budget law for 2010, for us in the SRS, are very controversial provisions of Article 19 and Article 22. We've already processed Article 19. It's Article 22. We have major objections to the way the NIP works and, Madam Minister, I must tell you that both mother and father are the National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia. Now you're wondering what this has to do with each other? And what's that? So, Mr. Gilas was the first director of the National Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia, and then he was the first NIP minister. Then after that, this happened because of the coalition capacities and everything else, that you have, who's already showing up. Which is why sometimes you in the government, and of course later, it needs the DRI and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to analyse spent funds through the NIP. Did you do it? You must be aware of one fact - many eyes of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are directed right at you, not only these days when the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget is on the agenda, but usually during the term of office of this government. For what? Because you are the finance minister and for this reason the funds collected from citizens of the Republic of Serbia must be taken into account as well as how they are spent. Just to remind ourselves, there was a very interesting remark here by colleague Zlata Đeric, in some local self-government, I don't know if it might be in Somboro or elsewhere, it doesn't matter where some local clerk took the severance and that, she says, high, and then returned and re-employed in that local self-government. A very clear message has now left the government of the Republic of Serbia, done by the current defence minister, Mr Sutanovac. He took 24 or more, I don't know now or how much money there was at that time, severance, and then he became a national MP, and then he's also a defense minister. In such a way, you spend funds that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia spend on simple misery to fill the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34149	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to inform you that, in accordance with Article 85, we will be working until the end of this item that is on the agenda today. Tomorrow we will continue the discussion in detail, according to the laws on the agenda, and we will have a break from 15.00 to 16.00 hours. We still have time to move on to the amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22. The draft budget law so that the "investors" in the position of the 7th member is deleted. Namely, I want to remind you of what this article is about. This is primarily about the funds that the Ministry of Faith through the NIP finance projects to churches and other religious communities. I simply think that the word "investors" here is absolutely unnecessary, because things are clear in themselves and without all this. However, in an explanation why this amendment is not accepted, it says here that there is a regulation under which churches and religious communities constitute an exception when it comes to this matter which is here in this article of the law. I don't think the state should interfere in this way in this matter, because it will only harm churches and religious communities. Here, let's say, take an example that someone, some contractor of some investment as a believer, any confession, wants to perform the work of some confesional community by giving up the commission as a gesture of goodwill or belonging to that confession, but basically just working to cover the material costs. However, since you have not accepted this amendment, it will simply not be possible and will only have damage to the religious community.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34151	I'm setting a break by 4:00. Thank you. [[After break – 16:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34153	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 23. The draft bill on the Republic of Serbia's budget and so that this amendment requires it to be amended. You, in the position of the 1st member, say – a warrant for the implementation of the overall tasks of the NIP joint issue of a official whose division and the minister is in charge of the NIP. This looks nice when you look at it. There, double control of NIP funds has been provided, the money spent is transparent, but this, as you put into this law, is not the essence of it. I must say that this position is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to certain laws. However, the argument given by the government in rejecting this amendment says it is the opposite. But you're going through all of this. It doesn't matter to you at all, it's only important that this government, or those who control the money from this people's budget and money, is important to them to put their paws on every dinar that is being spent and to have a corresponding commission from all these funds that are being allocated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34154	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34155	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, by amendment to Article 23. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2010, I propose to delete the position of the 2nd member, given that this position is contrary to the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, since the government obviously wants the term "jointly" to be introduced to the small door, or as it was sometimes called 20 years ago "collective responsibility", which means that no one will answer in translation. It is extremely unserious, if it is not already possibly a deliberate issue of responsibility in relation to the implementation of the NIP projects, that the availability of large sums of money can be left without a possible responsible individual, who will bear all responsibility in the event of malfeasance and misuse of funds. This is the position of the 2nd to provide that responsibility for commitments to carry out tasks, expenditures, i.e. intended for realisation, division and the Minister in charge of the NIP, but also the Minister, or the official in whose division the project is implemented by means of NIP. As it's going to look in practice, it's hard to imagine. From experience, we can freely say that there will be no responsibility for any minister, let alone for both. Who's ever been responsible for something like that? In 2006, a script was even published on projects with amounts to be financed by funds, and that was huge, following the sale of Karic's Mobtel. After three years, Minister Verica Kalanovic says it was a list of beautiful desires from local self-government and it's just amazing. In 2006, the National Assembly said that, on the basis of the resources available for 2006-2007, a plan for the implementation of projects that came from municipalities and that met the criteria set out then. The ones who didn't, they weren't even in the plan. I ask you now – where is the money in the dinars allocated for projects that are not realised? Will anyone ever be held accountable?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34156	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34157	I have submitted an amendment requesting that the word "executed" be replaced with the word "transmitted". It's about the means. This term does not correspond either to the fall, or to the language, or to what the budget writer wanted to say. It's about the means to be transferred. Someone used the term "execution," and it's about the store. The store is done. It is executed by paying, and here it talks about the transferred funds from Serbia's budget to the Vojvodina budget, so the Vojvodina budget will make payment according to certain items, etc. So this budget, and also these laws that we've been getting lately, really have a lot of some kind of raving words, some words that don't have a very healthy logic. And just now, when I was talking about a previous amendment that I mentioned this famous -- the Ministry of Reformer and Religion -- they have, like, one item, it says -- donations to NGOs. What kind of NGOs are these? How an NGO can be an organization that receives money from the budget, which is designed to receive money from the budget. It may be a para-government organization, but we've passed the Law on Citizens' Associations and then the Citizens' Association should be standing here in the budget, not making up some new concepts and some new terms. Indeed, for some time you confuse us, we cannot trace what the writer meant. Take a little care of those terms so we can keep a little more free and relaxed to track what you wanted to say and get into the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34158	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Flea.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we do not have a representative of the Government right now in the Assembly, I will address you, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Namely, I have submitted an amendment to add the words "Republic of Serbia" to Article 23 of Article 7 following the words "Government". It explains that the amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the Government Act, which found that the government in its name does not have a supplement of the Republic of Serbia, because it is only one government. I would remind you, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, that the Statute of the AP Vojvodina was adopted here and that a statute was adopted the other day at the District Assembly. You weren't at that session, though. You've certainly avoided it, as did the President of the State and the President of the Republic. What is certainly important is that the citizens of Serbia hear what the Statute of Vojvodina really is. We heard the SVM's position, we heard the LSV's position, where they unequivocally seek to search for AP Vojvodina's assets, and that these are the reasons why they won't support this budget. We tried to warn you, as well as the citizens of Serbia, what lies behind this Statute of Vojvodina. We were prevented from talking here, but I was convinced, she watched all of Serbia take away our word, that we were punished, that microphones were excluded, but it was very dangerous that this was a work primarily of the EU and the pact that DS signed with the devil in 2000. Ours is to warn, and the citizens will know who was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34160	Mr. Marash, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34161	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I must ask you not to smile only when these things are spoken in the Assembly, about the Statute adopted by this assembly, which the Vojvodina Assembly has declared. We can't keep hearing stories about how separatism is at work, that Vojvodina doesn't need property, that Vojvodina doesn't need a budget, that Vojvodina shouldn't exist as an AP. Mr. Flea, you have a constitution. What comes from this Constitution? It is obvious that you did not understand SVM and LDP when they spoke about why this budget was anti-constitutional, because the funds provided for in the Constitution are not in this budget in the amount that is necessary, i.e. the percentage that is necessary. I think all people living in municipalities and cities, and also in the AP, agree. Do not use such qualifications when talking about an act that is in accordance with the Constitution, about an act adopted in this congregation and which has been declared in the Vojvodina Assembly. Madam President, please respond to such words sometimes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34162	The assembly reacted by giving its consent and, to my satisfaction, the Statute was declared in the Vojvodina Assembly, and the satisfaction of the largest number of citizens of Serbia and MPs. The word has the People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Maras, political views are political views, the point is that the SRS considers this statute to be against the constitution. We have a clear policy that represents your political option. One of the LDP's basic tasks was to prevent Russian capital from entering Serbia. It's absolutely clear to us. You, when you hear about the EU from the corridor, are still raising your hands, it doesn't matter what it is, but it is also our place to warn citizens about what is coming to our citizens and what has been done in the last nine years to carry out the orders of Washington and Brussels to decommission Serbia. I will remind the public that a senior SPS official who is also a national MP, who said to the press, when asked him how much his personal income was, that his salary was very rude, that in 2000 he said that Vojvodina's spine, Kasa and Canak. Since he suddenly changed his mind and what's behind it, he's going to have to explain it in the future. A major threat has been overcome over Serbia, a single policy was built for 15 years, primarily DS policy on SPS, 15 years of darkness. This shameful signing of the reconciliation declaration clearly goes in favour of the facts that the SRS has been representing for years. What is certain is that the SRS will never deviate from its principles, from its programme, which is to preserve Serbia's territorial integrity, the fight against corruption and crime and the lives of every man in Serbia. What Serbian citizens want for sure is not to live on anyone's charity. Serbian citizens are primarily worthy, honest and honest people, who want to live off their work, and none of their charity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34164	Mr. Free Maraš has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34165	The difference between LDP and SRS, Mr. Prelyco, is very large and I hope we agree on that. Also, I'd like to try something, if you'll let me, I don't want to be rude, and explain. Capital doesn't have a name and a last name, capital doesn't have a nation. We care very much that the capital, whether it's Russian or from the EU, comes to this country. It's a question of the way it comes. At no time did we face a different opinion about the need for Russian capital to come to Serbia, but the way the NIS was sold, without a tender, at the price at which it was sold and the majority part given to the Russian side, that was the problem for us. You said before we enter the O.R., when we hear of Europe, we raise our hands. Mr. Flea, there's something I need to explain to you. It is not our only goal to make Serbia part of the EU, our goal is to Europeanise Serbia. It means that we receive values that are valid and that we start to apply them, that are valid in... Please allow me to continue. We want the values that are in Europe to be part of the values that we share here every day. There are no orders and tasks of the LDP from the single centre, but Mr. Prelyco, I must remind you that from the ranks of your party there have been remarks that there is no one against Serbia being Russian Governor. We never wanted to be whose province, republic, or ghoul, we want Serbia to be what it is, part of the EU, part of Europe, and that is why I think that all of your findings that you made earlier are at least not true. The LDP is proud that it has always supported those laws that bring us closer to Europe and that will be done in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34166	There's no more reason. It's all clear, Mr. Flea. There's no basis for replication. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34167	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24. The bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with a proposal to delete Article 5 of the bill. The amendment proposes erasing the position of the 5th member because it is obviously contrary to the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. In response, i.e. in the reasons for not accepting the amendments, the Government is calling for Article 84. The law governing the regulation of courts which found that the supervision of the spending of funds under Section 7 was carried out by the competent ministry. However, the government should also refer to the Budget System Law, only then to assess whether it is worth accepting the amendment or not. Besides, speaking of the judiciary, the courts are currently in a state of chaos. Judges with a long-standing internship and valuable experience these days face the fact that the will of a local party powermaker in power will end their professional career. Let this remain a lesson for those who believed in the lies of those who were transparent, democratic, although slightly blackened by the arson of the Assembly in 2000, brought Serbia and the judiciary, as well as judges and all the lawyers as individuals into this situation. Here we have an entirely opposite situation of the situation as mentioned in Article 23, which I spoke of a few times under Article 23 of the supervision, payment and execution of expenditure intended for the implementation of the NIP, both the Ministry of the NIP and the resolution minister. When it comes to Article 24(5), it's just the minister of justice, and it's probably going to be another different model for some other divisions, and it's probably going to suit you to apply the Budgetary System Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34168	The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Shami. Here you go, Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34169	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have proposed that Article 25 be deleted from paragraphs 1 and 2. It is said in point 1, that the minister responsible for science and technological development, I am pleased that Mr Djelic is there, giving expenditure orders from economic classification 424 for specialised services, for programmes and projects in accordance with Article. 10th and 98th. The law on scientific research. The 2nd point is said - project financing covers the payment of earnings to researchers of the institutes involved in the projects. In fact, the DSS thinks that these views should be deleted, because they sort of prejudge the obvious caution of the creators of this budget, which knowing that income will not be as much as planned and predict that they may not be able to pay for everything, not all obligations will be paid. Then it reaches out to someone where it seems to be the easiest, but right away I say it's the dumbest thing to reach out to the resources for science and research, which are usually small, and then the minister puts himself in a position to assess what he's going to pay for, and what he's not going to pay for, at what rate he's going to pay. We don't think these provisions are necessary in the budget. All those who have received money for their projects, the government must provide them with a team before the money for scientific research and sciences that separate themselves from this budget is otherwise small and too small. It is our suggestion that attitudes 1 and 2 be deleted, as such are completely unnecessary in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34170	Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34171	Madam President, honourable MPs, Mr Shami, this provision actually exists for the reasons you mentioned, but also for the right reasons, which is to protect the lives of those of our citizens who have dedicated themselves to science. It was found in the first two quarters of this year that the definition in the accounting sense of position 424 did not allow the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia to pay the salaries to our scientists, because they go according to one correct, project principle, which allows every few years our teams to prepare projects and have very clear goals in their work, and in that sense I think we will agree that it is very important to preserve this project principle. On the other hand, given that this is a contractual relationship, and it does not identify in itself the fact that we did not have a part of these funds, unfortunately, I will agree with you there, still refers to the personal income of those in our scientific system, we were unable to, because of the priorities that under the Budgetary System Act exist in the implementation of the budget, which is that first public debt is paid, legal rights are paid, and that for pension and other social benefits and contributions such as wages. We found this formula that in no way wishes to impose discretion or discretionary right of the minister to decide who to pay or not to pay. In fact, this provision has allowed, since it was adopted in the budget rebalancing for this year, to pay personal income for those who work at institutes at the same time that they receive salaries and others who work for the state, especially in the higher education system. No one has been favored, nor will they be in the future. Now I would use maybe to say two or three words about the division of science. As you can see, despite the great difficulties, we will agree, I believe, and we have talked about this on the appropriate Science Committee, that even such separations are not at an adequate level for our country, but even at these difficult moments, we have had the strength to increase the division of science by about 10% and some nine billion dinars from budget revenues, this represents some progress. On the other hand, we have worked hard at these difficult budgetary moments to provide alternative and additional funding and, as you can see in the science division, there are opportunities to invest in our scientific technological infrastructure. It's supposed to be about the same level, as budget cuts will be. This is from the European Commission's security funds and from the European Investment Bank and some of the other projects we are working on. With those fixed 0.3%, unfortunately, of the science we have literally since 2003, if we manage to implement these projects, we will still move to 0.5% of GDP next year. Mr. Shami, I agree with you that it's not enough either, but it's much better than it's ever been in Serbia. We will try to make sure that even in the years that come this division is growing as much as possible, not thinking that it should be provided only by the funds of both budget and state, but that it is very important to include a private economy in this major project of our science. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will have opportunities in the first half of next year together to consider the strategy for the development of science and technological development. The public debate, which lasted from 29 June to 1 December of this year, ended. Tomorrow, at the Ministry of Science site, we will have a presentation of what has been formally sent to other ministries and by January we will have both a strategy and legal changes and supplements that can ensure that the projected funds are better foreseen. Next year is important. For these budgetary reasons, strategies, legislative changes, and that is the same year that we are preparing a new cycle of funding scientific projects for the years to come. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34172	Thank you, Mr. Vice President and Minister. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 25(2). The bill, after the word “for profit,” adds the words “and the other costs”. With the amendment of the SRS, I propose this legal and technical correction, because we believe that in addition to the costs of researchers, the same will have other kinds of costs, such as material, liquid and others, which will pay from the 423 classification. With this amendment, we just want to more precisely define this member of the law. Since I have time after this amendment, I ask the finance minister if he knows how the money of Serbian citizens is being spent on the project of expanding the Medevo water factory from Kruševec. This project is being done along the way, made by the same designer, the Institute "Jaroslav Černi", the value of the last project was 33 million dinars. The town's bigger town of Kruševec a month and a half ago without a tender makes a decision to be the Institute "Jaroslav Černi". Is it by any chance that the director of "Serbia" Marjanovic and the director of the Institute are born brothers? I'm asking the minister to give us an answer for the citizens of Kruševec. I would just like to remind the finance minister that the project to expand the water factory "Medevo" in Krusevec was done in the 1990s and was done by the "Energoproject", the "Hydroengineering" section with the responsible face, Andro Tucovic. We have nothing against, from the SRS, the expansion of the water factory "Majevo" to Kruševec, but we ask that it be done in the tender and that the project from the 1990s is respected by the project to expand the water factory "Majevo" Kruševac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34174	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Đeric and Miroslav Markicevic, MP Milorad Buha, MP Nenad Popovic, MP Milos Radulović and joint MPs Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic and Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34175	In this amendment, we asked that article 26 be deleted as a whole. It is a member who is much mentioned in the media, and this is the member who predicts that the local self-government minister, and why the local self-government minister, can directly from the budget, invest funds to local communities. This member is not allowed not to, but if he stays in the law in this form, if it is applied, then there will be serious problems with all other laws without talking about which interference will be produced in local self-governments and administrations. Explanation. This time it's not a "kopi-paist", this time you haven't called for a global economic crisis, you've called for efficiency. It says, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 26 creates the possibility of more efficient use of the funds identified for the implementation of programmes and projects relating to local communities, which the ministry could direct to local communities. So, the minister can, in private agreement with some local communities, without us pretending crazy here, we also know with which local communities, whose local communities and why these local communities, to define the funds. This member is going to seriously violate some serious laws in this country. We have already pointed out on several members that these are members who make both this budget and this government a private government and a private budget and the government's relationship to the pre-bugette, as according to their private profits, without saying according to my private father. I think colleagues after me will show you how dangerous this member is, how malicious he is and how harmful he is to a large number of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34176	MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS has tabled an amendment requesting the removal of Article 26. I can say that this looks like an experiment by the Minister of State and Local Self-Government, Mr. Markovic, he's prone to these experiments, but he's not the first to get into something like this and he's not gonna be the last to get into something like this. What's this about? Minister Djelic, one of the creators of the Public Procurement Act, is here to ask him what kind of vision he has, how the local community will conduct the procurement process. Did one of you ever in the government, who wrote this bill, think about that problem and even know what kind of problems the local communities have? In most cases, if a project is approved for a local community, the same local self - government has designed the project through its services. Now direct funds are being transferred to the local community. All right. I ask the question, how will public procurement be carried out and it will be at the citizens' assembly. Who's going to oversee the performance of the work. I know more cases, but I'll list only one, MZ Brnjica, the municipality of Golubac, separate funds from the municipality and transferred to the local community for reconstruction and water construction. At the citizens' assembly, an offer was chosen. That's what it looks like. If you continue to arch state money like this, think only about how self-dependence funds are spent, which are strictly dedicated, so often instead of being dedicated to the purpose for which the local self-delivery and the call is made, they opt for sports clubs or some other things that were not at all...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34178	Thank you. Mr. Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, here we have another failed member of this law, namely, execution, which we have already established from the SRS, budget execution and these 41 members, all of this is full of illegality. This is one example of inauguration in the legal projection of something that has no foothold in the Budgetary System Act, or in the Law on Local Self-Government. According to the Law on Local Self-Government, the provision of its sources of funds is alimony of the local community's revenues, saying, under one, the resources established in the municipal budget, i.e. the city's budget, including self-delivery, donations and revenues that the local community, i.e. the other form of local self-government, achieves by its activity. So neither one of these three positions has a holdout for release of funds, as foreseen by this attitude. In practice, we had two systems. One system since 2001 when under the Law on Local Self-Government, we have not had a local community as legal entities since 2007 when the Law on Local Self-Government was established as a legal person with a single current account. So, in these conditions, practically, half the local communities are not now organised under the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government and are not legal persons, have no current account and have no opportunity to transfer funds to them. I ask Mrs Dragutinović, do you think if they don't have a current account, how will you transfer funds to them? Are you going to do it in cash? A little Miss Dragutinović's having fun, but good. A specific question, if there is no local community (President: It has been two minutes, please bring the end. I'm asking if you'll do it in cash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34180	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34181	For a moment she just gave me a break because I looked right at my colleague Popović's list published on the RTS judges who were elected and we are really in shock, actually me, since the judges who participated in the theft of the SRS mandate in the District Court in Kragujevac were promoted and are now in the Higher Court of Appeal, but what state such and justice. Mr. Djelic, it's good to have you here, because this amendment is talking about the public procurement process and whether the guarantee is necessary, so please, and Mrs. Dragutinovic, answer me how you got to these famous 590 million? You're saying that for a purchase that's over 590 million clients are looking for a bank guarantee, which is amazing. How did you even get that number? We ask that it be over 100 million to control you better, because it is obvious that there have been many abuses and that the state of Serbia, since you came to power, has been deeply trampled in crime and corruption. I'll give you a gift, I'll take the opportunity just as you're here, Mr. Djelic, because it's kind of been with you since January 2001, this is the book "Democracy Review", of this democracy of yours, after October 5th. He wrote a young man. She's 21 years old. He's headed for the SRS anti-corruption team. His name is Ivan Ninic, and he covered most of what were malfeasances and abuses in the public procurement process, as well as other corruption affairs that rocked Serbia, which unfortunately were not dealt with by state authorities, both the prosecution and police. In any case, you will see that it is a brave man who gives guidance above all to those who follow his generation and those who will remain living in Serbia, that he does not want a country where he is kidnapped and robbed of citizens and in which the abuse of the law reaches an enormous wealth. You can now look at it through a personal example and some of your friends who have ties to the so-called. the economic sphere, and it is not by any chance that he donated this book and the president of the Assembly, but it is not by any chance that part of the preface is just from Robespier's speech at the Jacobin Club from "Dunton's death", which is said to be – there is no agreement and there is no truce with people the Republic represents speculation and the revolution of trade. Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34182	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34183	Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of next year's budget represents the adoption of the most important document of economic policy for both the Republic of Serbia and all units of local self-government. What am I saying this for? Because a very specific session of the City Assembly was held today in Leskovac. First, the problem arose because the ruling majority did not accept to put the agenda on the agenda regarding the SDP's board's mandates. Most people don't care about respect for the law. It was only important to rebalance the 2009 budget at all costs. But literally at all costs. The ruling majority of the i.e. The ruling majority's councils retreated to the solemn hall, applied unprecedented security measures, so much as there was an emergency intervention, all because the opposition representatives would not enter the ceremony. Within a record short period, the session, without the presence of television cameras, is completed, which are normally followed by each meeting of the Assembly. Leskovac has the Democratic Party for the third time in power and seems to have a temporary financing in 2010. Practice seems to be practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34184	The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic and joint MPs Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic and Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a lot of controversial members in this law and a lot of controversial institutes. Unfortunately, in article 32, you'll be able to identify another one of those. It is a member who gives guarantees and gives the Republic the right to Serbia, therefore, to the government that it can give guarantees to individual legal entities. We think this is practically not allowed, because it puts the government in a position to choose which company, which business entities will help. Also, this is, I would say, a process of reprivatisation, because a good part of the company, we know for sure what the situation is in our economy today, might not be in a position to repay those loans, so the government will have to return either interest or loans and through that famous 19th member of the company that we already talked about taking part of the capital in those companies. We already have a very sloppy privatization that currently has over 400 and some broken contracts. Half these companies are bankrupt. So, they've been robbed by customers, and where luck is that the government has come up with some concept of how to overcome the problems that are accumulated from day to day when it comes to the privatisation process, and not to the fact that this kind of criminal decision actually takes us back to the beginning, takes us back, into some social, state property, whatever you want. We had one similar law and one similar government decision when it came to socio-retirement insurance, i.e. a loan that entities, i.e. enterprises, can raise and guarantee by mortgage. It's a way and a way for the state to take part in a company. We in the SNS find this unacceptable, and frankly, I'm surprised that Mrs. Minister ever accepted that she be the one to determine which enterprises in Serbia can...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34186	Time. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34187	We have submitted an amendment to Article 32 because we consider it to be a matter that needs to be settled by the Public Debt Act. If you feel that something is not done to the end of the law, then you need to amend the provisions of that law and remind you that it is on the agenda of this session and the amendments to that law. This is how you practically introduce some new purposes, basics, or if I could say you're looking for some new excuse for a job abroad. Please, when it comes to emergency circumstances, you know there's a reserve where you can intervene. Don't argue, God forbid that it happens, that it may be a drastic consequence, etc., so it's a necessary task, but it still goes through the National Assembly in the part where it relates to the issue of guarantees. Please explain to me how would the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly, pass a guarantee law in order to eliminate the harmful consequences of natural disasters, etc.? When we give a guarantee of the law here, we appear as guarantors on behalf of a legal person. What kind of legal person is that when it comes to an elemental accident, etc? It's not the republic of that kind of legal person, it's going to be a direct task. There's some more indiscretions. I think you've overstepped some of the things that are possible by public debt law, so before you increase that big limit. Just to remind you, the revenues this year, or next year, are planned at 6.9 billion euros. If you take charge of 2009 and the debt you planned for 2010, that's 3.9 billion euros. That's the results of your policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34188	The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34189	In his first part of the exhibition, Coli Krasic explained this amendment, given that we both had an amendment to the same member, but to different views. You said here that giving guarantees from this first position is done in accordance with the provisions of the Public Debt Act. We don't think it can stand in this law. Of course, it is understood that the granting of guarantees must comply with the Public Debt Act. There are many laws that you then had to list in this way in some of the members of this law that must be relied on in certain provisions of the draft of this budget law. But, given that we are at the end of the budget debate, we think it is good to remember first and foremost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we are passing this law before we discussed last year's report on the law on the final account and, more importantly, the DRI report. Why didn't we discuss it? Because then you couldn't possibly bring a budget like this, because this budget has all the mistakes and all the failures already marked in the 2008 State Auditor's report. This isn't, as you like to say, a transparent budget. There are still items in this budget that are hardly anyone will be able to know why they were spent. Again, Mrs Dragutinovic, we will have a situation that you will say that you do not know where 136 million was spent. We're going to have a situation again so we don't know what special services they are, if they're really done. She'll have a lot of work to do when she discusses the realisation of this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34190	On Article 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Krstin, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34191	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, section 33. I ask the bill to be deleted because it is against the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. Namely, since Mr Djelic is here with us, and I see that Minister Mrs Dragutinovic is back. I'm glad to ask you a question, since you, Mr. Djelic, are a great expert, and to explain to these agricultural producers how they are also making rapid progress and to get to those sums as you have come thanks to those 11m-euro actions. Let me tell you that agricultural participation in GDP fell 13.5% below 10%. What does that mean? That agriculture is losing importance. When you say that agriculture is losing importance, it means that agriculture and a farmer can't expect anything good in 2010. With my own exposure, I'll confirm one more fact. Mr or gentlemen Ministers, Croatia, unfortunately, must be mentioned, with a million and 200 000 farmland, it amounts to 600m euros from the annual budget, and the Republic of Serbia, with three times more hectares of processing, which means 3.5m, stands out of the budget of 284m euros. This is just an indicator or one of thousands of indicators that you've systematically been for nine years, and the next is ten years of destroying the agricultural producer, destroying agriculture, destroying the strongest and most profitable branch of the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34192	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted the amendment to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Petar Jojic and MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Milica Vojić-Markovic has a word, Donka is not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34193	I see we're all getting mixed up, so I just have to insist that I'm just Milica Vojic-Markovic. In Article 34, paragraph 4, after the words "Minister in charge of Finance Affairs", we said that the words "can be suspended" could be deleted and that they change in the words "disputed". In fact, this is one of the members of the budget in which the government is threatening local self-government units to suspend their transfer funds unless they apply the maximum number of employees in local administrations. There's no need to write this article, because you're already suspending the transfer funds to local self-government. Look at the number of local self-governments that are facing bankruptcy because you didn't pay what you owe them, so this member can be free and left out. But under that "can do something" is, in fact, something that bothers DSS lawmakers and Serbian citizens, because it's this one space of fine manipulation. From my discretion, as finance minister, a lot of things can depend on, and then, it's a space for manipulation. Some will be tolerated, although we, as DSS, have been against this law, because they are not clear criteria, nor are you aware of why you will fire people. It's just that it's just what's not good in this article. As far as we're concerned, you can wipe out an entire member because, I'm telling you, transfer funds don't go where they're meant anyway. They're obviously going somewhere else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34194	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34. Proposal for a law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In my amendment, I asked for the fifth position of this member to be deleted. In order for it to be easier to see why I did so, I will indeed have to read this position of the 5th member, which says – if the law sets out the maximum number of employees in the local administration and provides for a suspension of the transfer funds, the motion for suspension shall be submitted to the Ministry of Finance. I would first of all like to say to the citizens of Serbia that this position and what is in this position is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. This is how discrimination is being made against the citizens of Serbia. For what? We simply need to know that transfer funds are something that is inalienable law and municipalities and cities, and of course through municipalities and cities, Serbian citizens. That is why we in the SRS believe that no one has the right and must suspend the transfer funds to the citizens and therefore we believe that the government should consider this amendment, to adopt it, but since we have a bad experience, we have a clear doubt about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34196	National MP Dragan Todorovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34197	Madam President, I apologize, Mr Dragan Todorovic has submitted an amendment to Article 35. I want a word on that amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, has tabled an amendment to Article 35(3). It is an extremely interesting explanation for the rejection of this amendment. The amendment is not accepted for reasons contrary to the Government Act, which found that the government in its name does not have a supplement of the Republic of Serbia, because it is only one government. All MPs and citizens know that one government is, and we don't think there are more. And this one is too bulky and too expensive for citizens of Serbia, working exclusively in its own interest, not in the interest of all citizens, taxpayers. The 2010 budget deficit for this claim is estimated at 107 billion. For this consumption, higher than income, the coverage will be provided with the largest share of borrowing. Credits will also be taken for other purposes, guarantees from the Republic of Serbia will be issued up to 210.009.066.081 dinar, state records of around 294 billion will be broadcast, and economics will be denied for that amount, as these securities are being withdrawn from banks. Ladies and gentlemen, defeating the data, which Mr Krasic presented in his discussion for a short time, that the planned revenues in 2010 were about 656 billion dinars or about 6.9 billion euros. Total borrowing in this year 2009 and next 2010 is 373 billion dinars or around 3.9 billion euros. That's almost 57% of this year's budget. The SRS parliamentary group has made most of its remarks, many of them, but every objection we make is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. More importantly, every remark has a basis in the 2008 financial audit report on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 budget. All objections from the SRS and the State Auditor are identical.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34198	National MP Zoran Nikolic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35, MP Dragan Todorovic, spoke of by Mrs Dimitrijevic, submitted to the amendment. He was 34 at the time, but he also applied to Article 35. It's okay. The 35th amendment was jointly submitted by MP Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34199	The DSS parliamentary group proposed that the budget law itself be defined and agreed on the establishment of a human resources plan for the republican administration. The Government's reply to this amendment is that the deadline has been 30 days since the publication of the budget in the Official Messenger, as well as that it is actually a matter regulated by the Government Act, and therefore it is not necessary to accept this amendment as well. This sent the wrong message, which actually states that the laws should be subject to the laws of the government. What if, for example, someone in the government had thought to change that sublegal act, which is much easier than changing the law itself? This could open up space for a new increase in administration and, of course, what would imply later non-selective layoffs without clear criteria. Although I don't think this is a good thing, and I urge government officials to accept this amendment anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34200	National MPs Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Dimitrijevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34201	We predicted that another new position be inserted before this attitude 1. The new stance is -- the government's personnel plan and measures concerning the reform of the number of employees will be available on the government's site no later than January 31st 2010, with the existing position 1 becoming position 2. etc. What did you say to us? This is really amazing. The amendment is not accepted for reasons why the explanation, the publication of the Staff Plan on the Government website is not an obligation of the competent authority in accordance with the act of the Government. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have very often used a word called transparency. I think that was your favorite word. Look, I'm going to tell you something that's going to help you get that word closer to your explanation. Transparency is an excellent way to disinfect the government. I think this government really needs disinfection. What's the problem? That human change in government is not put on the government's website. Is that a secret? Is that a state secret? Are you afraid of something? The problem will be that at this point you don't know how many ministers you have, how many secretary of state you have, how many assistant ministers, advisors you have, etc. There's a problem. That's why you bring these laws like this. That's why the bill says so. One more thing, Mr. Vice President. You see, laws are passed to regulate the will of individuals and to regulate some relationships in society. But when the will of an individual becomes law then the state is in trouble, then the people are in trouble. Hundreds of state secretary assistants you have in the government, you're afraid to announce on December 31st how many of these people will still be on the payroll. You take it as your right to deny yourself because of these same things, if it is not squandered, to deprive the transfer funds of local self-government. Where's that? What kind of government is this? You have the right to drag your hand into other people's pockets of taxpayers, and to apply measures to those who do not respect your decisions. Where does that lead? Does that lead to Europe? It seems to me that when it comes to transparency, that you're getting that pour feather pretty much stood up, that it doesn't even exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34202	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Squirt.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I could continue to exhibit where Mr Dimitrijevic stopped and fill him in, because he had little time, too. In fact, this Article 36, paragraph 4, should be deleted for the simple reason that it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. The vast majority of experts agreed with this finding, and not only that, but also the fact that this budget is not a developmental one, it is a consumer budget. Here's how. The data from this fat book, as many now call it, says the following. They speak, among other things, of suspicious, specialized or specialist services, suspicious engagements under contract. The fact is that individual administrations and inspectorates got more money even for wages. I'll list some, as long as I have the time, as long as you let me. In fact, at the rate of salary, allowances and employee fees, instead of 75,942,000 dinars like this year, the foreign inspectorate will spend as much as 82,991,000, almost 83,00,000. Just for public debt, he's increased the payment fund three times, so instead of 6.1 million dinars, he'll go as much as 18 million. In the Department of Justice 94,732,000 dinars, or 4,000,000 more, with five hundred judges less, which is not logical either. When it comes to travel, the justice ministry will be able to spend 8,500,000, and 7,9 was in 2009. The Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets, more than double, 3.6 million, while the Veterinary Administration has increased this item nearly eight times. This year she was 800,000, now she has 8,600,000. The rest of the departments won't be saving on their travels either. 7.2m has been allocated to the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and as much as 11,000,000 for the Ministry of Infrastructure compared to millions of dinars this year. The Directorate for Measurements and Expensive Metals on Travel will spend 4.77 million instead of 879,000 this year. So will the Treasury Administration (President: Time). Don't you want me to move on? All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34204	The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Dragan Acimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the 2010 draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 38(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The draft law of the word "and necessary new employment" shall be deleted. The government's announcement that the budget is not developmental, but social, this can be seen from the items of the budget for paying the administration, and it is about the Serbian government's decision to fire workers from the state administration. For that reason, this member shall be denied in advance. This member of the budget provides for new employment of workers. Therefore, as representative of the SRS, I have proposed an amendment that would cancel this contradiction, while also avoiding direct red tape employment, which would result in an increase in the bureaucratic apparatus of the state. All of this is an ordinary government scam aimed at firing unsuitable workers from the state apparatus to hire party supporters and sympathisers at their posts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34206	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The amendment was accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 39th amendment. And this amendment was accepted by the Government and the Finance Committee. National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Radojko Obradovic and Milorad Buha submitted. Mr. Buha wants to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34207	I need to read the provision of this article's proposal. Article 41 says: "If the beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget in carrying out the expenditure do not comply with the provisions of this law, the government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, is making a decision to suspend the execution of the appropriate appraisal set out in this law to the budget user. “ Since I have proposed to delete this member and pointed out that it is a member who is contrary to the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, in response to the Government stands – the amendment is not accepted because the bill contains provisions that regulate exceptions from the application of the provisions of other laws and, above all, in the context of the global economic crisis, it was necessary. What does that mean – whether necessary? In the context of the global economic crisis, it was necessary to violate the provisions of the Budget Law and to counter the provisions of this law. Mrs Dragutinovic, here is another provision, Article 41, on suspension of budget execution. The temporary suspension of the implementation of the budget, from the fact that the responsible Head of the Ministry or other State body acted contrary to the provisions of the law. It's a violation, a commercial offense or a felony. The budget system law provided for criminal provisions. In this case it is a violation and one who has violated the provisions of the Budget Law should be eligible, not to suspend it according to direct and indirect budget users. You are acting contrary to the provisions of the Budgetary System Act and many other laws. This is not what you hide, even you say, in the government's explanation – the amendment is not accepted because the bill contains provisions that regulate exceptions from the application of the provisions of other laws. You can't do this with the Budgetary System Act, and you can't, but it looks like you can do anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34208	Time. Thank you. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Mr. Peric wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, this amendment had to be accepted. What did he have to be accepted for, and what did you state in an explanation for not accepting this amendment? In 2005, a law was passed which declared the pensions of farmers to be the public debt of the Republic of Serbia and then made one dynamic in which, I say freely, the leftover pensions should be paid to farmers. Now in article 43 you have predicted that this cannot be paid in 2010, but you leave it to be paid in full by the end of 2011, and you do not say that you will pay in the first quarter, the first half of 2011, but you say – it will be paid in full by the end of 2011. The Serbian Radical Party intervened with the amendment and proposed that it be paid by 1 July 2010. The amendment is not accepted, you say – no funds are provided for that purpose and cannot be paid. You had to do those huge contracts where it's not clear to anyone alive how and how these funds are spent and whether objectively there's a need for spending these funds, to reroute them into paying off agricultural pensions, which were created and taken over as public debt by the state. No, you forget, and we've already told you that average agricultural pensions are three times less than those received from the fund, from the Fund of Independent Works, three times smaller and you peasants and farmers only remember once in four years or maybe sometimes more often when the elections are. When this is over, then you leave them aside and you absolutely don't care, and all the problems in society we've overcome along with farmers, along with peasants and they haven't been difficult and most of them can't go to retirement to continue with other activities (President: Time. Bring the end, please. ) while employees in other activities can.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34210	Mr. Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34211	Madam President, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, about a few questions discussed here. As far as agrarians are concerned, it is unequivocal that the current situation of some 19 billion dinars is not entirely satisfactory, but we will agree that a five billion dinar increase for next year is a significant advance for our agrarian budget. It is true that the Republic of Croatia is able to allocate larger funds, but it manages to do the same because it is beginning to receive structural funds from the EU budget. In fact, the EU is also a significant opportunity for our agrarian. For this reason, two years ago, Serbia started certain reforms, such as direct payments of 120 euros per hectare and which managed to reach hundreds of thousands of addresses, made it possible to complete a modern register of agricultural holdings and, most importantly, we are completing a major job of building an agrarian paying agency. In this way, we are preparing a system for our agrarian, which will be able to absorb funds that will come from the EU budget. I would not bid on some figures, but enough to say that last week, agriculture ministers 22 of the 27 EU countries felt the need to have a joint declaration, which is preparing to defend the position of agriculture in the future six-year EU budget, which will start in 2014, and will end in 2020. Today, the EU budget, which is largely the agricultural budget, about 40% and even if there is a certain reduction in that proportion, Serbia, that is, Serbian agriculture, will be able to count on significant support from these funds. Serbian agriculture is progressing despite everything. This year, it has ensured that our country achieves a surplus, i.e. to export 200m euros more than it has imported in EU markets. The implementation of the Transitional Trade Agreement from 1 February 2010 will allow those quotas that we have received to be fully used. A large number of our slaughterhouses have been acquired and we started with one two years ago, which had standardisation and opportunities to export to the EU market and a few weeks ago we also got the opportunity to export our dairy products. It does not seem to say that our agriculture is failing, and it is true that no one can be fully satisfied with this level of agrarian budget, but this agrarian budget allows significant progress on what was possible this year. I'd just like to add two or three more words about public procurement. Public procurement was not regulated at all until the law was passed in 2002. I'm very proud, with many of the consequences that are here, that we did this big job back then, seven years ago. The law should not be idealized either, but it should also be noted that this new law that replaced it this year has responded to a number of challenges that have been seen during the first seven years of application of this new topic in our country. A number of studies have been done and we can say that the introduction of competition enables significant bargaining and curbing of corruption in this important domain. Is the situation ideal? No, as we have seen through our police action over the past few weeks and months, and this topic of public procurement is very sensitive. It is estimated that every year various levels of government spend up to 2.6 billion euros through public procurement, and it will be important to be aware that both in the years and decades to come we will have to fight constantly to improve this system. The new law provides to a much greater extent the use of electronic public procurement so that transparency is at a higher level, but I think that gradually, we also have consultations in the government, the time will come when a number of goods buy various levels of government to be centralised, not shopping, but negotiating in a much more transparent way for larger quantities over the longer term. This will ensure that more serious bidders are present. Due to higher markets, the individual price will fall and the high attention of the government and the media and the MPs for these larger procurements will be such that we will be sure that there will be no corruption. Then lower levels of government and other people who want to buy that good will have that option if they have that position in the budget for a particular computer, paper and what, they can only order what is already negotiated, they don't need to form any commissions and thus curb corruption and thus reduce the price. Public procurement is a great topic and we expect to see in the year that this law is being implemented and that, if possible, together with the esteemed National Assembly, we bring additional improvements, so that the topic is even better arranged. The last thing I'd like to say is that as far as transparency is concerned, and it was a matter of staff plan, I have to say that in Article 36. The law, the esteemed MP, has proposed an amendment that actually allows for a lower level of transparency than the one that exists in the proposed legislative solution. In fact, I would like to present it here at the plenary session, it is proposed in a law proposed for adoption here in article 36 of the disposition to be monitored at the monthly level on the Internet, and in comparison, the staff plan developed by the ministries and by various parts of the state, with various levels of staff and not only the lower officials and what is mentioned, state secretaries, assistants, employees, all to the last and that level that can monitor whether the procedure is respected and how many people are actually working in the country at the given time. I'd like to congratulate the finance minister and her team here, because this is a novelty that the Republic has never had before. Thank you very much. (Greto Peric, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34212	Mr. Sreto Peric wanted to replicate, but there is no basis, the minister has really made his point. So, it's all clear. There's no business ground to give you my word. Mr Nenad Popovic has time for a nine-minute parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34213	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, we are at the end of the debate on the budget and yet after all these discussions can be said for sure that the budget is not developmental, the budget is still devastated for the economy and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. 63% of the budget will be directed into salaries and costs of the state apparatus. The big problem is, I'm going to repeat it, the economy and all that's about the economy, and that's science and education. I'm glad Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, whose ministry, unfortunately, has not received any increase in this budget. It stayed on the same level as last year. It just shows that even in this budget, except for this coalition principle where the interests of various coalitions in this government were met, there was no systematic and planned approach. Had it been, it is certain that a large part of the funds would have been channelled into capital investments, not just 15% of the 400 billion euros added to the surplus compared to last year's deficit. Of course, it should be said that this state budget extends its original idea of entrepreneurship and we have repeated several times on a totally unacceptable step towards the investment of the state in Fiat in an Italian company. It's a business for private companies and they're welcome. I'm sure most of the ministers in the government will agree to what I'm saying. Also, the state continues entrepreneurship and we hear that, the state will buy equipment for Bor. Why the state to deal with Borom? The pine was supposed to be privatized yesterday, the pine should be privatized today, it shouldn't be waiting tomorrow. How will the state deal with Bora? The state is going to buy equipment for a smelting plant in Bora, some young people who wanted to play business are going to buy on behalf of the state. It's very nice to spend state money, and you don't make money answering it, and I suggest all those young lions who want to do business go into business. At least today in Serbia for two or three days for 500 euros you can start a campaign and prove your knowledge and your opportunities. Believe that today's economy is extremely difficult, especially for those who are in small and medium-sized enterprises, who are not able to get credit. The non-payment crisis is huge. We can say that in 80% of companies you have a huge pay problem, no one pays anyone. We're going back to some difficult time. We can't solve this non-payment problem without credit to these companies. Again, businesses in the Republic of Serbia should be helped not with 50m euros, as much as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated to subsidise loans, businesses in the Republic of Serbia should be helped with a billion or several billion that will be directly directed through the Development Fund. The Development Fund is there to lend businesses in the Republic of Serbia. What's going on? The state has decided to invest 150m euros in only one business with the Fiat. Of course, Mr. Djelic last time accused me of not loving "Fiat". I love "Fiat" and "Fiat" is more than welcome. I love Mercedes, too, Mr. Djelic. I also love "Toyota", "Ford", "Opel", and I love French "Sitroen" and "Reno". I love everything. But, Mr. Djelic, we cannot share business partners and potential investors on our own and on some of their own. I think that after this failure with the Fiat, I will remind you, as the government, that the Fiat was obliged to pay 200m euros in last November, so you extended that deadline, so it was due to pay us 200m euros by March 31st. It's December. Speak, it will be paid between December 21st and December 25th, I promise you. Here, I'll remind you of the last promise that December 21st will be paid, four days left, 200m euros. I'm asking what you're going to do. You can only do it by law, break that contract and pay the "Fiat" penalty of 30 million unless it pays 200m euros. Don't just tell us he'll pay 100 million euros. That's one-fifth of the promised billion. I'd like to ask you if we're not going back on this subject, just speaking the language of these facts, is it paid or not paid? Is the state investing or not investing? You have a company called FAP in Priboj. Why doesn't the P.A.P.P. from Pryboy get $150 million? Let's get the FAP out of Preboy with $15 million. Why wouldn't the FAP from Priboj produce those vehicles, get the exact same subsidies, give 150m euros to a potential partner in China, a Japanese, give 100m euros in guarantees? When it was in Europe's history, a country was giving guarantees to a 100m-euro foreign company, bank guarantees for the purchase of equipment. In addition, two more million euros should be given for some imaginary consulting house. Imagine that. You will give two million euros, I don't say Mr. Djelic, I don't criticise you, God forbid, I criticise the government as a system headed by Prime Minister Cvetkovic, to give the consulting house to the money of the budget users, and you don't know why. To consult who? Foreign company? The company has majority foreign capital. It's a private company. I say again, "Fiat" is always a welcome Serbia, we'll all look forward to it, but there's nothing to it. Also, I'd like to say that the budget has absolutely non-transparently done everything regarding the AP Vojvodina. Unfortunately, we do not see a single item in the Vojvodina budget, and I think it is very important to say that it is likely that the costs for the transfer of these responsibilities for Vojvodina will be much greater than the Constitution guaranteed 7%, probably because it is not yet specified and that it cannot be said that this transfer of responsibilities, this surplus of money, will be paid by citizens, not only by Vojvodina, but also by Kursumli, Prokuplja, Novi Pazar, Šapca etc. What I can say in front of the DSS MP is that we've tabled amendments. We thank you for the amendments you have accepted and we are also sorry that you have not accepted the other amendments. Some amendments have improved the budget, but not enough. What we're proposing is that you withdraw the budget from the procedure, and we won't vote in front of the DSS for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34214	Minister Bozidar Djelic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34215	Mr. Popovic, it's hard to take away the impression that there is contradiction in what you just said. You started with not giving some young lions any money to manage, and that, even in those difficult situations, Bor is certainly one of them, where several governments, including those led by your party, tried privatisation. Unfortunately, it failed and certainly was not an ideological definition, but rather the need to try to run more quality production with this slightly better level of copper prices in order to wait even more ready to start more activity and re-interest of customers. If I'm not mistaken, on four or five occasions, there's been an attempted sale of RTV Bora and this is simply an extorted move to ensure the future of Bora and the entire Bora County. We will agree that this is extremely important, knowing that the eastern part of our country is unfortunately affected by the depopulation, that we have many problems, and Bor, and Majdanpek and many municipalities there. You shouldn't look in a negative sense and in a light of all that, but to say hello. The contradiction we can see is that in the other attitude, you said that the other side of the country wasn't giving enough. You said he shouldn't give anything on the one hand, and then you said right away that the small 50m euros is not enough. Let's make a deal whether the state should or should not intervene. If we look at the facts, the economic crisis is the moment when all the countries in the world, including those that have defended the long purest "form of liberalism", such as America, are countries that intervened massively, that nationalised their financial institutions. Last example, I don't think we can say that an Austrian country that wants to enter some form of communism. She nationalized one of the banks because she threatened to destabilise her financial system. This is not a moment for some ideology, but for solving specific problems for specific people, for specific businesses. It is certain that when the situation occurs that we have to return, and there I would agree with you, with a limited form of intervention in the economy, certainly not with policies that would be directed at individual cases, but much more at something that is sectoral. National. Turn-turn, for an investment like the Fiat, we were in competition with several countries. Whether or not we want to have one factory that produces three thousand new models of the Fiat in our country. It is true that the project is difficult for the economic crisis. We saw that Fiat entered several negotiations that no one could foresee, and at least they themselves, even a year and a half ago. Who could have predicted that the Fiat would enter into negotiations with the Kraissler in America? Who could have predicted that the Fiat would have a discussion of a joint twincher in China? Who could have predicted that the Fiat would be one of the three candidates for taking over the Opel? These are all files plus difficulties we know about all car manufacturers, including the Fiat this year in their home countries. In this case, it's Italy, the Fiat. These few months, which are not in any way a measure of any threat to this project but of preparing to reach it, during a visit by President Tadic to the state delegation in Italy, the government also announced at the meeting that the project is still ongoing and that it will be realised. That's great news for both Kragujevci and the whole forest. Experience has shown that it is the most difficult to attract the first in the big industry, as the examples of Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, followed by the ecology of the automotive industry, one of the car manufacturers and 75 companies in the area of our country. In the past few months, we can be pleased that a company, like Festo in Prokuplje, has opened a new facility, which will employ two thousand and a hundred workers. These are all the circumstances when this project is launched in full effect that will ensure the future of our country's industry. That's why I think, Mr. Popovic, as a businessman, I hope you'll agree that this is not a moment for some great ideology at the moment of preparation for getting out of this crisis. We hope this budget is also a feature. It is expected to grow by 1.5%. We have a pragmatic way of solving our people's specific problems. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34216	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Popovic, I'm sorry, I have no business opportunity to give you my word. You used your time. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Mr. Zoran Popovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34217	I have submitted an amendment relating to the funds for the reconstruction of the Colubary County, which reads in Article 44(2). The bill of the word - five is replaced by the word - three. In the government's explanation of not accepting amendments, the amendment is not accepted for reasons that even after 11 years of the establishment of the Directorate, despite the involvement of significant funds from the RS budget, construction and rehabilitation of buildings in the area of the six municipalities of the Kolubar district has not been completed. For these very reasons, I have submitted an amendment to draw attention to the government's lack of care towards the municipalities of the Kolubar district, Ljiga, Mionici, Lajkovac, Valjeva, Ubu and Osecini in the 1998 earthquake-damaged houses. How officially the facilities have been renovated to date, but half of them are said to have been restored, however, no one is telling how much that half is. There are estimates based on the money that is set aside for this purpose that the renewal will not be completed for 15 years, but if the pace of recovery so far is considered, it will take at least 25 to 30 years. Only in the municipality of Ljig there are about 400 facilities to be built and 150 that are scheduled for recovery. In the municipality of Minica, which was in the epicenter of the earthquake, the situation is still alarming, because over a thousand facilities are to be renovated and rescheduled there. The funds you've set for the construction of the Kolubar district of 178 million are not enough for the Ljig municipality, which is distributed by 12.3%. Instead of increasing the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the Kolubar district affected by the earthquake, you are increasing each year, and you are extending the deadlines. For these reasons, I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34218	The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34219	This amendment is just a logical continuation of the previous amendment, Madam Minister. Our intensities to this amendment are to point out in fact the concerns this government is showing towards the municipalities of the Colubary County. In 1998, a terrible earthquake struck this municipality. In that earthquake, thousands of houses were damaged or destroyed. Only in the municipalities of Ljig and Mininica about 1,500 houses should be renovated, repaired or built. The snow that was falling these days threatened to bring many of these buildings, many of these semi-destructed houses down to the ground. The state buys time, the state actually knows what it's looking for right now, asking these unfortunate people to re-pay some fees of two to 2,500 dinars for the alleged social rescheduling. Instead of solving their problems, they force them into new and new expenditures and new problems. When this will be paid to those who are owed. When will their houses be renovated or built? The question is, how long will the government's concern last, or perhaps the Montenegrin saying, which is a bit of a joke, apply to this government, but in this case, it is sad: "the debtor will repay the debt if the rust waits". Isn't that the government case? Gentlemen, show some understanding for these unfortunates. Maybe it's their fault they built houses in the rotting area.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34220	The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the 2010 Budget Law. In Article 47(2), the words "Minister in charge" are replaced by the words "Minister in power". Since the proposed legislative solution allowed the minister to decide on his own and self-initiately direct the money as an surplus from the previous year, so I submitted an amendment in front of the SRS that corrects this irregularity. From what we can see, the minister is given the right to decide on everything in the ministry, thus legally allowing the use of the minister, which damages the ministry, the budget and the citizens of Serbia. That's why I think the amendment can prevent his individual power from avoiding the abuses of the minister and transfer those rights to the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34222	Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34223	I have submitted an amendment to Article 48 relating to certain competences transferred from the Republic to the AP Vojvodina. The funds planned in the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget, which are neutral for financing these responsibilities, are being entered into the current budget reserve and are being channelled into the AP Vojvodina budget through the finance ministry's division. We just had almost at this session, this house has passed a law on the sovereignty of the Vojvodina, so my amendment concerns that this member is deleted for the very reason that it regulates this law that has been passed in parliament. I wanted to say more, since Mr Djelic left, and I am sorry that he did not stay, since all these money that was, and that he will break through with this law constitutionality, the one that belongs to the AP Vojvodina budget, that he will right now, as Mr Djelic, young lion Bojan Pajtic, has been saying, is being used for political purposes by the Republic of the budget in Vojvodina. They are used in municipalities where local elections are held, will be used where elections are called and when they are scheduled in the AP Vojvodina. Just, Madam Minister, he located the problem for 2010 and announced that the biggest problem in public procurement is exactly what I commented on in the amendment concerning sport. They'll also pave and make playgrounds, etc. from those funds that will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina. Only one thing he forgot to say was how much he'd get, if the controls were carried out over public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34224	Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Zoran Antić and Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34225	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 48th and a provision under which the Government can transfer funds from current reserves for entrusted matters, when it comes to the accepted Statute of Vojvodina, without any insight or public knowledge, means the citizens of Serbia and this parliament. The government has given itself the right to transfer funds as it believes it should for entrusted jobs and by putting us from the Republic Parliament into a situation, us MPs, that we have no insight into how much the funds have been transferred, or why these funds are being spent, or why it is planned to be spent. I think this is extremely inappropriate. We have one situation that local self-governments from the interior of Vojvodina and from the interior of central Serbia and in some way are being deceived and will only be deceived thanks to this member of the law, because they have an obligation to reduce their administration by a few thousand employees, and we are in a situation that Novi Sad is getting several thousand new jobs which, thanks to this member of the law, we will not be able to identify. We will also be in a situation where Belgrade, which gave Novi Sad those several thousand jobs, will not be so much, given that the jobs of Novi Sad, AP Vojvodina, are not so much that it reduces the number of jobs in the republican administration, I would say in the Belgrade administration. I believe that for all MPs from the interior this member of the law should be unacceptable, if you are already in favour of transparency, it must be an essential thing to know how much the AP Duke's money is spending. I guess the elemental thing is that we have insight into how many new jobs this will mean and how many republics, or Belgrade administrations, need to reduce their capacities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34226	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 49. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34227	Madam Minister, our goal was not to cause you any pain, but to provoke you as much as possible to accept amendments that go in favour of the citizens of Serbia, to treat the Republic of Serbia with savings and to focus as much resources on those positions as possible. We have submitted an amendment to Article 49, where it stands - the law enters into force the next day of publication, and we insist that the provisions of the Constitution be respected where the laws and other regulations enter into force eight days after the day of publication. There's no reason here. If this is about budget rebalancing, then you might say, it should come into effect the next day from the day of publication. This is the 2010 budget, the next financial year, and could take effect and apply since 1 January. Madam President, you didn't allow this earlier, but I'd like to give a few words to Minister Djelic. He's acting like a good fairy - well, we've singled out so much, it's not enough, etc. He's always been like that. He says -- that's not enough, but that's more than it used to be. He here says that agriculture in Serbia had a surplus this year. Yes, it was a surplus in exports, but it's not because of this government. I'm not saying the government was working against her, but she did very little in that direction. These are the most worthy of our valuable agricultural producers, peasants or paraori in Vojvodina. They did, but they did not benefit from this government. That's what Velimir Ilic likes to talk about. He also says it's apples, and how much milk and how much meat it is. He talked about it so I wouldn't talk about those prices. But everyone in the Republic of Serbia knows well what the government has to do with farmers -- 120 euros per hectare of subsidies to agricultural production. Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, as an excellent agricultural producer, and besides that of a doctor and master of machine science, knows perfectly well that it is necessary to sow wheat per hectare 500 euros in the beginning, plus spending in the spring, that is 800 euros, and the state grants a 120-euro subsidy. I think it's a little bit compared to what agriculture could give us. Do not "fiatize" Serbia. Let's go to the farm. There's a chance. There's a perspective.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34228	Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, he's got three minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34229	Dear Presidents, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP feels that the proposal for this 2010 budget has missed the opportunity to define a clear policy that young people should see as a resource, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not recognise the needs of young people and thus did not offer any long-term solutions that should solve all the problems young people face. Also, the economic policy to be defined by the 2010 draft budget does not give us the answers that industries will be developed in the next period, i.e. what educational profiles are necessary to define, so that we do not have what happened to us last year, for example, when over 2,000 graduate students and people who have finished colleges went straight to the employment office because there is no need for their profiles on the market of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I will take the opportunity to remind the president of the Assembly of one issue I asked in December of last year, I reiterated it on 25 May 2009, which talks about the attitude of the state or state authorities towards young people, which is a question related to young citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the area of Novi Pazar, Tutin, Sjenica, Prijepolje, Priboj, who completed the Faculty of Criminal Sciences in Sarajevo, nostified their diploma at the University of Belgrade and received a call from the graduated security manager, who tried to become employed in the interior ministry from 2004 to 2008. All their attempts at employment failed, that is, their petitions were left without an answer. This problem is particularly urgent, Madam President, if one fact is taken into account, and that is that most of them are 30 years old next year, i.e., that is the upper age limit by which, according to the Police Act, they can be employed by the police. Please use your authority to finally get an answer to that parliamentary question I've already asked twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34230	Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic, also three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34231	Gentlemen, after the adoption of this draft budget law for 2010 and its entry into force, Serbian citizens will be more in charge. We will continue to have a massive state apparatus, regardless of the large layoffs that will start from 1 January 2010, although it is planned to make the administration's resignations more allegedly effective. Pensioners will be frozen pensions, regardless of inflation in this year, will be saved on maternity fees, amounts of transfers to cities and municipalities will be so serious that they question their functioning, we will continue to have an astronomical number of parallel state bodies, mainly agencies, still high amounts of funds identified for budget users, for contract services, specialised services, etc. The SRS proposal was to achieve savings to allow for a higher amount of subsidies to agriculture and businesses. We made concrete suggestions, you didn't accept them. All citizens suffer the damage. I really don't know if the MPs who are going to press the 'yes' button after that will have a calm conscience? The years of economic crisis are difficult. Conscious or unconscious, you make them even harder.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34232	The word has a minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Colakovic has full time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34233	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, the Honorable Minister and Representatives of the Government, the honourable MPs, I feel the need to say something, given that I haven't been for two days because of other obligations, and I've read a lot of it. The PUPS and our parliamentary group believe that the budget is balanced for two reasons that they write in the budget and the third reason is that it is not spoken of in the budget. The first is economic and developmental, and no one can deny it. The second is socially justified. I think he's more just at this point than the ones that have been brought in in the last 10 years. That component must be in mind at this time. GDP growth 1.5% is realistic, and we all need to know it depends on us, not on others. I also think that GDP growth estimates in the next two years, in 2011 and 2012 are also realistic. I'm optimistic about that. Something about that retirement part. The level of October 2008 does not satisfy pensioners, and that is correct and I fully agree with the parliamentary groups that have referred the criticism to the freezing of pensions, but it is also unreasonable for us to see such a gap between parliamentary groups. Some claim it's unfair to freeze pensions, while others demand a pension reduction. Personally, I think this is a two-year-old freezing pension price paid by pensioners because of the economic and financial crisis. In this respect, I believe that pensioners have contributed to overcoming the economic and financial crisis. Not just now, but in the last 20 years. We know that the collapse of the pension system began in 1992, so in 1996, we arrived at 2001, 2003 and finally in 2005, when the laws were passed. We won't agree, and I think that's clear, to cut pensions. Our position here is clear and he's not blackmailing, as someone here has said. We entered clean accounts in the ruling coalition in 2008, where we specified, and this was accepted by the ruling coalition, in addition to the four basic principles offered, to be the fifth principle – social justice. As long as the government meets and respects these principles, we will give it support. Let's look for reserves on some other sides. Something Mr. Djelic was talking about public procurement. We believe, from the many research we have done, that there are the largest reserves, that over a billion euros are moving. We also think we should continue to rationalise state institutions and institutions further. We're not just thinking about agencies and these other organs, but much deeper. Secondly, a question arises which pensions should be reduced. Do those who are 11,000, or the lowest pensions and lower, and over 500,000 pensioners receive, or those who receive the average pension and lower than 19,500 dinars, and there are over 900,000? What are these pensions that can handle any reduction? We insist on not being able to live out of it, but other measures of state authorities and state units, such as local self-government, municipalities, cities, the provinces should put the issue on the agenda and see how their citizens can be respected, how these citizens can be given a better life. I have to say here that these people, these millions of people, gave everything they could for this country, for the construction of this country. They gave everything, so they gave and created those who are now seeking a reduction in their pensions. That's why we can't agree to this kind of relationship that's being sought out here. There's more than half of them. These are the most endangered ones. Third, something about the debate that was here at the expense of the five MPs. Such a way and such a relationship is unacceptable, neither is it parliamentary, nor is it democratic, nor can anyone's choice be disputed as a MP. In particular, it is not appropriate for young people to treat their elderly, or parents, in this way. We are a coalition of SPS-PUPS-JS, with 20 seats won, with over 33,000 voters. What kind of interest group is that? Who can say it's an interesting group? What did we deserve to call ourselves? I must say, we also have a large number of young people who have agreed to our party. We will send these young people to you, to talk to them, because you have announced that you want to talk on the line of youth and old. He says we don't have your parents' support. We have the support of everyone's parents. We have the support of our young, our children and our grandchildren. I personally say that I have the full support of all my young and old, and 90% of them are young. You say it's your policy. We do not challenge you, but I ask you not to challenge the people of our party, our president, or our MPs. You're contesting us for the 1990s. Personally, me and the MPs aren't from that story either. They're not from the story from 2000 to 2008, you should know that. We are from the story of 11 June 2008, because everything we do, we will answer in front of our voters, in front of our country and our people. And let me put it this way, there are two or three prominent former officials, two vice-presidents of the government and the president of the National Assembly. From the period when the privatisation of this country had the most embarrassing days, and the consequences you must accept as responsibility now, what happens on both the railways and on the roads and on the streets. You can't transfer that to the shoulders of those people who retired in the '90s or those people who didn't participate. In 2001 and 2003, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act was amended. At that time, many of the rights of pensioners that have been earned have been abolished. Of all that has been done, pensioners have had no use for it and have not taken part in it. That's why they shouldn't be blamed. In the end, you dispute that there is something to do about reforming pension and disability insurance. I don't need to assure you, there's Mrs. Minister, there's other representatives of the government, and they can tell you what's going on, they have information. A lot has been prepared, but we have three principles that no one should give up and that everyone should respect. First, to build a system of pension and disability insurance that will be economically sustainable and there is nothing controversial about it. But we also insist on social justice because of those who gave their lives and those who built this country. Secondly, we insist that already acquired pensioners' rights are not diminished. Thirdly, we insist that future pensioners who come after us are not damaged in the rights that the current pensioners have. These are the three basic principles on which we insist and in this respect is prepared text or draft or predicate or some solutions regarding the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. What should be pointed out is that attention should be paid to the mistakes that were made in the laws of both the 1990s and 2000s and now. It's the first one around the benefits of a job, where there were gaps and weaknesses, and that needs to be corrected. Also, when it comes to the lower retirement age and the third, when it comes to disability pensions, there is nothing disputed. What we at least can't agree to right now, and I don't think we're going to let our beautiful ladies be even with us men about going to retirement, either after years of age or by years of internship, at least in the conditions in which we live today they don't deserve it and they can't stand it. Finally, a central register is being introduced to ensure the recording of all employers and all employees, at least two days or five days, and then it will not come to what we have now, that 150 billion people owe to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. Don't blame that pensioner for them. The third thing, we would agree with many debaters, that the pension and disability insurance service should be rationalized and it should be trained to do its job. For these and other reasons, the PUPS parliamentary group will vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34234	Thank you, Mr. Cholakovic. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34235	Dear President, Mr. Colakovic, I admire your courage to answer to Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic when he is not here in the Serbian Parliament. What I can tell you on behalf of most citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that only with pride can we talk about the years when Mr Zoran Djindjic was headed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. That is exactly the year that made it possible for you, or your parliamentary group, or your president to form the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government that is trying to lead Serbia to the EU. If I'm talking about pensions, we at LDP know that none of the pensioners in the Republic of Serbia can be happy, even if their pension was five times bigger than it is today, if their grandchildren are going to live in a country where they have absolutely no future. Mr. Colakovic, when you talk about the pension system, you have to answer a simple question – who is responsible for the collapse of the pension fund? We in the LDP are asking that the fund be reformed and we have offered one solution and one answer to those criticisms that you have referred to what we are proposing should be excessively given by the minister, because tell me any country in the world that has a future, if one third of its budget is given into the pension fund. What happens in a year, in two? Anyway, small pensions will be even less, or we'll get into a situation where we won't have the opportunity to pay our pensions. Why? Because in this country absolutely nothing works from the economy, or because they won't have anyone to earn that pension. That's the fact that we want to face society. That's the fact we want to talk about. We also want to talk about the fact that a growing number of young people cannot be employed, that businesses are destroyed, and that what you asked for, to enter this government of Serbia, which is an increase in pensions linearly of 10%, destroyed the fact that the Republic of Serbia's budget last year, and that's all devalued, because the euro was 75 dinars at that time, and today it's 96 dinars. Those are the answers you have to give, not the demagogue story here. You cannot, Mr. Colakovic, speak for those pensioners who have a pension of 13,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34236	Time. Thank you, Mr. Hajdarevich. Mr. Momo Colakovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34237	I can't say yes, and I believe no one, that we are the past. Mr. Hajdarevich, you're making a lot of mistakes. We are the present and we are the future. Secondly, we weren't involved in privatization and basic breach of the PIO system, and at that time there was. What this generation built was supposed to be part of the fund and then have the funds at its disposal. You can't throw that on a pensioner's shoulders. Today we have over or about 500 cancelled privatisations and failed privatisations. It's the capital that we created, and you privatized it. We can't agree to that. About the dispute, if we represent privatisation, I told you, we have our voters like you do. Don't argue with that. We represent our constituents, but we also represent pensioners and we fight for all pensioners, we fight for young people more than you do. Don't say you prefer my children and grandchildren to me. I can't agree to that. We stay with this attitude. We ask for a correct relationship, a fair approach and a solution to pension problems. And not just them, especially young workers who have lost their jobs, the most endangered families, etc. In that regard, I ask you to remain in correct relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34238	Thank you. No more replicas. There are no more grounds for replication. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34239	Member of the 104th, Madam President. The wrong interpretation of Mr. Colakovic and that is why I will not use the hard word. Mr. Colakovic, when we talk about privatisation, pension fund and society in Serbia in this state is precisely because privatisation is not finished. All the privatisations made during the period of Mr. Zoran Djindjic's government are successful privatisations. You, Mr. Colakovic, voted here in the Serbian Parliament last year along with most of the other MPs for one non-transparent privatisation, the privatisation of NIS, which has disabled much larger funds for the Republic of Serbia's budget. Please, when we talk about pensioners, when we talk about generations of our parents, our grandfathers, we have to tell them, someone from the government has to come out and say who's responsible for what they've done, they've been creating all these years, and it's been destroyed. Who destroyed the pension fund? Who destroyed this country's future? LDP isn't that. The LDP only points to those problems we're going to face when we talk about pensions next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34240	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 104 speaks of the dignity of the congregation. Indeed, there is no basis for breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Colakovic, I really think it was all... According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34241	Let's make a deal. Madam President, please respect our request. I must publicly say here that we ask that with two vice-presidents who chair the assembly and receive a parliamentary group – PUPS to discuss the dispute or violation of the Rules of Procedure at our expense. Mr. Hajdarevic, I highly appreciate and respect what you said. Don't let him inherit Djindjic more than I do. You didn't even meet him or happen to meet him. I was some kind of official at the time when he was standing up, when he started his political career, very successful. We didn't deny that. And we don't deny it. I'm not talking about your party. I'm talking about individuals who were in power at the time of some of the problems that have arisen. In that regard, I beg your understanding. I won't answer again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34242	I thank you and, of course, I'm pleased to welcome every MP's group, and yours, I can accept at any time you want. After we have completed the search of the bill in particular, our minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, wants to address us and give us the final word. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34243	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was this budget debate, but as usual it was much more than that. Through the proposed amendments or proposed amendments, very interesting economic concepts have indeed been offered. Today I would only talk about the most interesting, but not acceptable. What did the MPs here offer as an economic concept? It's a question of borrowing. They suggested erasing all those members where the Republic of Serbia is either in debt or guaranteed. The explanation, of course, is that he's a long, evil friend and that can certainly be his own attitude. People can be traditional, but if that attitude became accepted, it would mean that there would be no need for banks, no financial systems, no financial market. I tried to find in those words what was behind it, or in such a proposal, and does it really mean that debt should be banned. I tried to find out if there was a country in the world where borrowing was forbidden. Of course there is. It's Kuwait. Does anyone think there's no borrowing there? The fact is, since World War II, it hasn't been in a shorter period of time, so quickly, whether it's taken so many different states, but the fact is that there was no crisis that would have been deeper and that it would have lasted longer. Unfortunately, we cannot control international economic cycles and it is quite acceptable for me to be in charge of this phase of the economic cycle to return those loans when the crisis is over. Also, there were a lot of personal opinions about what it was too high in debt. I remind you again that this may be a private position, but that it is well known that the low duty is below 35% of the social product. In connection with this, the deficit size was disputed and there was a very interesting amendment that he said - there should be no deficit. The zero deficit, so the expenditures are lower by 107 billion. It's really interesting to argue with deficits. The deficit is an instrument of fiscal policy. Today, for example, there is a consensus that inflation is harmful to growth, but there is no consensus that the deficit is harmful to growth, even the deficit below 3% of the social product in normal conditions is not considered a poor fiscal policy, and that is not particularly true during the recession period. Also, I would like to remind you that all the countries of the world had a deficit, except for one Norway in 2009, and I would like you to look at it, still adopting budgets for 2010 and most of them with deficits. Everywhere in the world deficits are financed by borrowing, only temporarily can be privatised, and I hope no one thinks anymore about the possibility of the deficit being financed by the central bank's emissions. Also, with regard to borrowing, it was a concept that bad conditions were under which to be in debt. They're never good enough. If, say, they're good and they can't slow the height of the rate, then it's temporary. Even when loans are received, let's say from the World Bank and indeed the interest rate is extremely low, at this point, it bothers individual ambassadors that the interest rate is fluctuating, as if it fluctuates only for Serbia and not for all countries of the world. The fact is, she's now on a historically low level. The fact is that in some years, but let's say 10 or 15 years ago, she was at a record high of 7%, for example, but the fact is that in most years, she was up to 2%. Therefore, all countries have access to World Bank loans under these conditions. The interest rate is variable for everyone. Whatever the conditions, make them worse, let the interest rate rise, this will always be the most favourable condition. When the rate of interest and variability is criticised, somewhere I always want to say -- would one of us now take credit, for example, at 20, 30 years, with an interest rate of 0.48% or alternatively, we who want to help the state, to create such a budget that will be developed, as many of you say, would we buy government bonds at 20 and 30 years in exchange for this interest rate? All I'm saying is, no matter what the state or government does, it's never good. It criticises, as I said, flexibility, not only interest rates, but also the flexibility of course. And the rate and interest rates are prices, one foreign currency, another capital. Should we fix them? Does that mean we don't need a market? Sometimes, when I hear these concepts, I don't want to say it, but it's like we're somewhere in two different worlds. Also, it was a criticism of profits as such, given my years and the time I studied, I don't know this concept, but today we all know together that competition and private property are the ones that drive economies towards economic progress. Today, we all know that profit is the basic motive of the functioning of economic actors, whether they are enterprises, whether they are banks or others. What other reason is there to form a company, to do business or to have a bank? What's proposed? They don't like profits, they see that profits are high in the banking sector, and then they think it takes high tax rates to reduce the bank's profits, as if banks can't pass that cost on to another, as well as other economic actors. What did we get? Just a higher price for the end-user. How can we only fight profits, control prices? Is that what we really want? It is also a critical tax policy, or one of my views that I really want the tax system to be fair, and just means that all those who have the same economic power or the same amount of money in their hands have to pay the same, or that those who are richer to pay more, regardless of how that income is obtained. It's standard, you know, that tax policy doesn't affect the location of resources. Tax policy must not put anyone in a more favourable treatment. Tax policy must not mean that it has a great advantage for an economic actor. It needs to be neutral, and state policy needs to run over the budget's cost side. What are European standards? I said already - competition, that means market, private property, but some MPs like to make exceptions rules. So, for example, that some banks have become state banks in this period, it seems now and it is an exception, for some MPs it is a rule or perhaps some new standard. This is a time of economic crisis, this is a time of financial crisis, this is a time when certain banks have really failed, fortunately not here. This is a time in which some governments have decided that some banks do not fail, temporarily. The standard is still private property and competition. Some MPs criticised the grey economy, while at the same time supporting taxi drivers and, I suppose, lawyers in an effort not to introduce fiscal cash registers. I'm sorry to say this somewhere, but I really do, and I wish I could change that, if we weren't a country with high tax morality. For a long time, I thought it was because we introduced VAT to reduce the size of the gray economy. However, a careful analysis of the data revealed that it was the fiscalisation that allowed the grey economy to decrease and that the practical participation and sales tax with fiscalisation and VAT in the social product after 2005 was constant. Unfortunately, we need the fiscal registers. Fiscal cash registers are the best way to reduce the gray economy. Also, huge public spending is criticised, while at the same time supporting inefficiencies. Who more than I would, say, support students, first because I'm a teacher, so I'm a student's mother, but what do student's demands mean? Let's all lock it up together. This means that you lower the criteria, the number of points, for enrollment in the following year. So for the same result we spend bigger and public and private money. Examples can always be found that show that the state does not care enough. Those who, of course, are calling for a report from the State Auditing Institution ask that the state solve the problem of workers who strike and block the railway for days. From what position should I consult with the State Auditor? They're workers working in the private sector. Should the state be responsible for all the business decisions of all private legal entities? What kind of help do you expect? To remind you, the state has its own social security network, it has child benefits, it has family material security, it has a transition fund, active employment measures, compensation for the unemployed, something out of it, tell me which positions to pay from. Yesterday's discussion of Marine Ragush was also very effective. You know, it's not easy being a finance minister here and knowing that in a country where there are 300,000 poor kids, I have to admit that I don't know if there's 300,000 of them, and then the question is who's responsible for those kids? Who's responsible for those kids? Well, I think parents first, then I think there's a state to provide what these kids belong to, and that's a nursery, that's preschool, that's primary and secondary education, there's health care, and there's the help of the state, its social networks if parents are poor. How many states do they stand out for these purposes? I'll say 110 billion dinars together central and republican budgets, and local budgets. I don't know if that's really small. Of course by following the law or one of the laws that lies ahead of you and waiting for adoption, one law, one change that has caused a lot of controversy. A change that refers to only one possibility to reduce the space for abuse. Who should the state protect? What do you think? Is the state supposed to protect more mothers who receive 200,000 dinars or the mother who doesn't have a profit or receive a profit of 15,000, 20,000 dinars? If a private employer is willing to help a young mother, of course he can do so without asking for a refund. Mr. Maras and mostly LDP representatives have had serious criticism that this budget represents nothing new that the status quo, that nothing changes and that precisely because nothing changes he won't give or want to support. However, I hope that support will come somewhere because I only think that if we were to compare the budget numbers for 2010 to the previous budget, we would see that something is still changing, perhaps not as fast as the LDP would like, but it is really changing. I don't want to talk about fingers and honey. I don't know if you remember that story yesterday, but I noticed that the favorite reading and literature of the MPs is the State Auditing Institution's report. In all your doubts, you question everything, just in the State Auditing Institution report you don't doubt, as if there's absolute truth. I would remind us all that this is the first time that the State Audit Institute is doing a report for the state of Serbia. Does anyone really think that when something is done the first time it's done completely without error? Could they have done a state report in another country and gained experience? This is what I want to document on one case, since I was publicly called. Before I move on to that example, which is an example of the Treasury, I would say that I also don't like accounting failures, violations and something that is abuse or crime. So, don't prejudge the State Audit Authority's reaction, it's up to them to launch criminal and criminal charges. The originality is, now I move on to these examples of vaults, really beautiful, beautiful in art, but not when it comes to the functions of the vault or, say, definitions of public debt. I'd like to read what loans are in the consolidated vault account. These are loans from entities or entities belonging to the state sector, where they cannot be considered public debt. Internal lending from one country to another is not a public debt. So for the state auditor, this is a public debt. The vault would not be established at all if the loan from a state-owned entity was a public debt. Why is there a vault? To manage the debt, to get the money cheaper, not to be in debt if someone has a temporary surplus from state users, when the other one has less. The aim of the formation of the Treasury is that there is one state, not a few, of which one state is obliged to another state. Also, someone said it would be best to adopt the budget with three items – income, expenditure and the deficit. He almost looked like that 10 years ago. We've just made an effort to change that practice. There have been many objections to the government's flexibility, but we must all acknowledge together that our framework is very limited by the government, so that when and should not be able to react quickly. For example, they are often criticised in the amendments to this sentence, "The Exceptional Government can do this, the Exceptional Government can do that," because the system is designed to prevent rapid response. If you don't react quickly, then you're under criticism again that you're ineffective again. How are guarantees or government borrowings otherwise granted in some other countries? By presenting the border, the limit -- you can't do more than that, and it's up to the government to choose the most favourable. Can the government possibly predict perfectly? Can any of us predict? Can we predict our own budgets? If we can't get our own, how can we ask the state to predict how all these budgets are going to move together? In order to somehow increase flexibility as a possibility remains a higher budget reserve. Not less than 1.5%, we still have to learn that. If it is not planned in that amount, then we must have something that will allow for greater flexibility. How's the budget? I didn't use the word development on purpose, I have to admit. I said it was a combination of social and stimulating. There's development. When I talk about development, I mean only infrastructure, only large infrastructure projects and Corridor 10, budgets, guarantees and borrowings. It's all in the budget. It has also been criticised and there have been many amendments to the reality of the forecast. Even the prognosis of a tax instrument VAT has been brought into contact with either my honesty or my alchemy. Although I love Kuel and this wonderful book called "Alchemist" and I wouldn't mind if alchemy were possible. I'd like to say that it's really hard to predict in conditions of uncertainty that it is – after the battle everyone is general smart, but these forecasts are not me. They made very competent people and all the grades say these are very conservative projections. So, when it comes to VAT, I have to say that this year at a time of crisis, at a time of a 3% DP decline, nominal tax and VAT tax will almost be 6%. Do you think 9% is something terrible if our projections come true? Growth is 1.5% and 6.5% is inflation. This year, there's only been a change in the structure of consumption. They spend more domestic goods. It's less imported. Do you know how much VAT has grown when domestics are at stake? It's more than 30%. These projections are conservative. It was the same with the excise projections. It was very interesting to discuss whether excise duties were too low or too low, but I will never observe separate public spending and tax revenues or public revenues. They're not independent sizes. First we plan what kind of state we want, and then taxes that can allow us to get the state we want. I know there are lower excise duties, lower prices, for example in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but I also know that many rights or public spending in Republika Srpska are lower than here. I ask you all together not to look at the independent income and expenditure side. Also for excise projections for 2010, there is an announced change in excise policy when it comes to cigarettes. For 2010, an increase in the specific excise duty of five dinars per pack was planned. All of this together will increase the excise duty of one percent. This year the excises grew, in the year of the crisis, by 25%. There's something else I wanted to say. Where do you think it's gone too far? It was exaggerated when it comes to the Ministry of Forces, the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, the BIA, the Ministry of Finance, especially Customs and the Tax Administration. For these budget users, it was proposed to significantly reduce its costs. Yet you also believe that not enough is allocated for social protection, different health programmes, Fund for young talent, sports scholarships, subsidies in agriculture, etc. You often look for the opposite at the same time. One asks to cut the base for the salary account, while others demand that bonuses and rewards be allowed. Someone's looking for a pension reform, another one's looking to delete members that mean freezing pensions. One of them is looking for a bigger detachment for defense, one less. One greater incentive, one less. We can't do it all at the same time. So, I know we're all a little bit tired and I'd like to conclude. You really expect the state to invest a lot, to encourage, to subsidize, to hire, to protect, to ensure decent age, to ensure good education, to provide health at low rates, with a large tax exemption, without fiscal cash registers, without borrowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-17-0.u34244	Dear People's MPs, I hereby conclude the search of the draft law in particular. I thank Mrs. Minister, thank Mrs. Stojiljkovic, thank you. Of course we'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. To precisely determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, and there are working conditions. They were prevented from attending MPs Milica Radovic, Đuro Peric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Zeljko Tomic. I shall inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of promoter Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance and Mr Bozidar Djelic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science and Technology Development, called for the session to be attended by Zoran Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Zoran Milosevic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy Susana Paunović, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy Rade Savicevic, Group for International Social Insurance Agreements in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Predrag Petrovic, Head of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on PENZION AND INVALIDS OSIGURANJ (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Bozidar Delić, Mićo Rogović, Zoran Antić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milan Dimitrijevic, Donka Banović, Nikola Lazić, Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojić, Ivan Andrić, Nebojša Rangelović, Slobodan Maras, Kenan Hajdarevic and Sreto Perić. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The names of the amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic. Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Zoran Antic. Here, you have a word.
