ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12457	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 119 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third is present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session to be attended by Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the finance ministry, and Natasa Kovacevic, assistant finance minister. I welcome them, and so does our minister. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCIZA LAW (sumption in details) We continue the search in details of the 3rd item of the agenda, i.e. the 5th amendment in the same text was submitted by the MPs Donka Banović, Milutin Jeličić and Milica Vojić-Marković. Mr Milos Radulovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and as of yesterday, we have an agreement to first receive the word Milutin Jelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12458	I'm reporting under Article 104, the dignity of the National Assembly. Yesterday, in his closing statement at the end of the session, Minister Dulic said, "Just for the sake of the public, since this is a subject mentioned several days in the National Assembly and a perception is created that it is only a matter of days when VAT will be increased. So let me repeat what I said both in the debate and in the principle of all these laws: the government of the Republic of Serbia is not considering increasing VAT. If budget revenues are reduced, and no one knows what will happen this year, because all countries in Europe and the world fear the effects of the financial and economic crisis and are preparing to rebalance the budget. It was one of (listen to this now) unfortunately a ridiculous finding by several MPs. Well, you're already preparing budget rebalances. There is no country in Europe that will not rebalance the budget this year because the effects are very unpredictable." First of all, MPs of the National Assembly did not themselves construct a story of VAT enlargement. It was in an interview with "News" suggested by Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic. As for the presentation of the MPs of the National Assembly here, none of the opposition's MPs were devoting themselves in a funny way and did not talk in a funny context about budget rebalancing, but we talked and warned about what might happen because of the poor budget planning and all the things that point to the government's inability to create a budget. Mr. Dulic thus insulted all of us MPs, as the Government has repeatedly injured the dignity of this assembly on several occasions in such a way as to delegate incompetent people here to defend very important laws relating to the budget and to the life of Serbian citizens in 2009. I will remind you, they explained the budget here by Minister Kalanovic in just two minutes, where she explained with only one sentence the bill on amendments to the Excise Act, where she said: "In the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Excise Act, three amendments were proposed, first of all to change the amount of excise duty on motor gasoline from 40.5 to 42 dinars per litre, then to the level of excise duty on cigarettes and cigarettes from the previous 10'% of the retail price to 14.5 dinar per piece and the excise on coffee from the previous period was returned. Our proposal to increase the excise on coffee has been put out of effect. ". The whole law is explained by that one sentence, and not to mention that yesterday we had a situation... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... that for the entire two hours, I end up, we have none of the ministers here who would attend and participate in the debate together with the MPs. I ask that Minister Oliver Dulic apologize to all the MPs, because I believe he offended all the MPs by this finding he gave at the end of the presentation yesterday.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12459	The People's Messenger Milutin Jelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office of the Assembly, respected ministers, citizens of Serbia, I am reporting on the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, and I propose that Article 5 be deleted with the following explanation. Article 5 provides for the amendment of Article 12a, which would increase the excise on beer from the current nine dinars to 15. Such an increase is great, given how much this potion is, though alcoholic, in our terms important, even from a medical point of view, but because of a certain percentage of alcohol containing nevertheless excisely taxed, and I do not think that the existing value of excise duty should be increased. I believe that excise duties should be increased on all imported alcoholic products, mostly on the side of products such as whiskey or haineken beer, visfert, amstel and many others, and this increase should be from 50 to 100%, and that would stimulate our domestic production. By stimulating our domestic production and domestic alcoholic producers, I would also introduce non-alcoholic beverages, increase the consumption of our domestic products, and increase consumption would automatically increase the production of domestic alcoholic products, thereby increasing the production of domestic alcoholic products, resulting in the employment of new workers, the factories would work at full capacity and per unit of products at the existing level of excise and tax would collect more money and have more income in our national cash register. I must also say that I am against the SAA, which would also be reflected in this production by our domestic producers of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, because the unilateral application of the SAA would flood our market with foreign products, and you should know that all agricultural productions in all European countries are largely subsidized, so that they would completely destroy our agrarian, our village, our producers, both primary and food industries. Once again, I ask you to keep the beer excise on this level, not to increase, because they are additionally burdened by paying the VAT by 18%, I think that VAT should also be reduced to about 15%, and the VAT reduction would speed up production and in the larger mass, the lack of money in the state register would be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12461	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you see what the opposition MPs are talking about, above all, about the SRS MPs, telling us two or three months ago, especially at the time when we talked about the draft budget law, the attention of the government of the Republic of Serbia that it must behave seriously during the economic crisis that has affected the whole world, first of all, the representatives of the government, Boris Tadic and Bozidar Djelic, publicly in the means of informing that Serbia and Serbian citizens should not worry about the economic crisis, on the contrary, that this economic crisis that has hit the whole world will be welcome for the citizens of Serbia, that foreign investors will rush to Serbia, that there will be no money known how much. Of course, they quickly realized what nonsense they were saying and stopped talking. But in what did the government make a special appointment? In the fact that they didn't think of it, or you don't think of doing some, let's call it, action plan, some sort of economic crisis mitigation program. We are also familiar with it in one way or another from the media, but it is obvious that it does not officially exist, and if the government has such a thing then, given the specificity of the situation, it must also be known about the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, quoted Dragan Todorovic as saying more than a month ago that his statement from the media was made when he said that a commission or a body to deal with the economic crisis was made and that one of the members of that body was the governor of the National Bank of Radovan Jelasic. Of course, journalists logically immediately called Jelasic to ask what he would do as governor in the body, what measures he would propose to the government of the Republic of Serbia. On the same day Cvetkovic promoted, Jelasic said he did not even know that the body was formed, especially that he is a member of the body. Such dissonant tones from the government of the Republic of Serbia come precisely because the government is not prepared for what the whole world is prepared for. The government takes this very seriously, because in fact this is another piece of evidence that the government of the Republic of Serbia, or members of the government, is not interested in the real problems of Serbian citizens. That's why this is happening, what counterpart Radulovic was just talking about, that one minister says one thing, another minister says, Mr. Ilic sits here and shuts up, listens to us and then comes out and makes statements for the newspaper. Of course, we don't mind you advertising in the media, but it would be really good if you agreed with Tadic, Cvetkovic, with Mrs Kalanovic, with your minister, Mrs Dragutinovic, that we know whether you are planning a VAT increase or not. That story, your statement yesterday, from a few days ago by Mrs Diana Dragutinovic and confirmed in a certain way yesterday by Oliver Dulic, that story is completely unsatisfactory and pointless. You're saying that an increase in VAT is one of the options that we're going to sort of warn the crisis and that we're actually going to essentially create money in the budget. Every citizen in Serbia knows that the possibility of increasing VAT is one of the variants. Our question to you is, are you really planning to increase VAT or not? You're making various statements in the paper about how you're going to save in your home budgets. Oliver Dulic says he turns off TV and a computer when he comes out of the house, like the rest of the people are crazy, so they go out for ten hours and leave the TV on, like they don't know how they're gonna save themselves. So that Slobodan Milosavljevic, also your colleague, the minister, says he will give up dry meat products and chocolates. Little Milosavljevic made me cry. He'll stop eating chocolate. You say, Mrs Kalanovic, and I have asked you as a parliamentary question, that public spending will be reduced, among other things, by reducing the cost of mobile phones in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's your statement, about December 10th, given in the media, or maybe it's not well transmitted, I guess you got that question, so you'll let the services check it out. Why is that interesting? It must be big money and a lot of people who use mobile phones on the cost of the people, if you think that reducing the cost of mobile phones and your colleagues and others by the ministries that use these phones will affect the reduction of public spending. It's also completely pointless, because I don't know what it's supposed to be cost to affect the reduction of public spending. What counterpart Radulovic quoted, of course, I will not repeat everything, but what Mr Dulic said yesterday that there is no country in Europe that will not rebalance the budget this year, because the effects are very unpredictable. The question for you gentlemen is, what have you done to make these effects as predictable as possible? It's impossible not to deal with the team in one serious way, at least a team of economists. Mr. Ilic, who is very present in the media and the theoretically nice story, though, I already reminded you of a show that you participated with two doctors of economic sciences where you spoke, that was about two months ago, when they were talking about all this that would happen to the state of Serbia, you rejected it as impossible, no, with us everything is stable, nothing in this sense can happen to us. Mr. Ilichu, I watched that show for two hours. We don't want to chat like this, all our questions are addressed to you as parliamentary issues, or to your ministry, and of course we bring them out here so that the citizens of Serbia know what they can expect from this government and why we insist on that programme, on some action plan, on something, call whatever you want, whether there will be an increase in VAT or not. It's just that the citizens of Serbia could sort of organize themselves. I don't know how they're gonna save, but somehow, those who don't get paid, those who get fired, these tens of thousands of new ones waiting to be fired. Most government members are already speaking publicly about new cancellations. He's threatening the local self-government minister by firing in local self-government. He's threatening the Minister of Education's resignations in education. So, just threaten to quit and thus protect the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is irresponsible, it is unserious, and you have to act as good hosts in such a difficult situation and manage the money of Serbian citizens with the attention of a good host. That is why Oliver Dulic's unserious statement, when the laws have not yet been passed, is still under discussion about the laws on which to fill the budget that has been adopted, with the delay as much as you are responsible, 40 days late in this House, to remind, first of all, the public of Serbia, therefore, the following laws have not been passed, and yet you do not have those sources of income that you will receive when these laws are passed, and we are already threatened by the ministers here with rebalancing. So, the easiest way to propose a rebalancing here is to have 126 MPs who will vote for it, in the following laws to increase excise duties, increase administrative fees, slowly announce a VAT increase, and that, as Mr Ilic said, would happen if it had to, and one morning the headlines would come -- well, it had to. And you think that by countering and overcoming this crisis and the negative effects of this crisis that has hit Serbia as well as the whole world. You have no rights, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that all of what you are unable to do and what you would not be able to do, that there are no problems of this kind that are now emerging in the financial market, that all your ignorance, carelessness, carelessness, perhaps even least ignorance, but more than that of neglect and concern for the state, for this people to put on this economic crisis. When the Prime Minister Cvetkovic comes here and when you say to the national MPs and the public of Serbia exactly what you planned as a government, how will you affect which segment of this entire economic crisis, when you say what the citizens of Serbia expect, do you increase VAT, say - yes, Serbian citizens, we increase VAT, and do not push Mr. Ilic to make statements of this kind to the media, and that Cvetkovic says he has no idea that anyone was talking about it. I think you said that too, Mrs. Kalanovic. The amendment proposed by the DSS colleagues, three of them, to delete Article 5. The bill, and counterpart Dejan Mirovic of the SRS, this will be discussed by Mrs Lidija Dimitrijevic when the amendment is on the agenda, in Article 5. "number 15" replace "number 10". Of course, this reading to people who are not in a position to look at this proposal doesn't mean anything, but that's why I'm going to explain. It's a excise duty, it's a Article 12a of the basic Excise Act that says - the excise tax is paid on all types of beer, except without alcohol, which contains 0.5% alcohol, amounting to nine dinars, and now you're proposing 15 dinars. So the DSS colleagues suggested that the article be deleted, i.e. not to increase the excise duty at all, and we in the SRS suggested that the excise duty be increased from nine to ten dinars per litre. It would indeed be responsible by the government of the Republic of Serbia to accept one or the other amendment. Of course, we've suggested that the excise of one liter of beer increase by one dinar. Beer is not luxurious in some normal quantities, but it can be a product... Of course, luxury is in abnormal quantities, Mrs. Kalanovic, exactly, but it's a luxury whiskey that you didn't foresee to increase excise duty, Mrs. Kalanovic, and we've been talking about it for years. Which has been protected by lobbys for eight years since DOS, as Krasic would say, in any aggregate state of power, you are not interested in it, there is no word about it. If excise duties are to be increased, then they should be increased to really luxury products. There are luxury products in Serbia, there is a number in Serbia, however small, citizens who can buy these luxury products and we have nothing against these rich people, provided that they have acquired wealth in a legal way and without abuse of government, parties in government and individual officials etc. So, if the finance minister here, like he isn't, maybe we could, especially when we have two similar amendments, talk about it and talk about it, but you're only interested in NIP, you're interested in how much money you're going to get -- so you can pave the way for it. Of course, we have nothing against asphalting, but all over Serbia, not just where G 17 is in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12463	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word Mr. Maras, followed by Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12464	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I have reported that I am asking the competent authorities, primarily of the Special Court, to respond. I also have to tell you, do you know what today's front page of a newspaper looks like? In the paper, the president of a parliamentary party, the head of the parliamentary group currently in its fourth strength in Serbia, is called the killer. I must remind you that the Supreme Court has reached a verdict marking and convicted the murderers of Prime Minister Djindjic. In that same verdict, Cedomir Jovanovic was grateful to help establish the truth. Cedomir Jovanovic responded every time to the court's call and told everything he knew about the preparation, i.e. those who prepared and those who committed the murder. It is a strong verdict, meaning the final decision condemning the murderers of Prime Minister Djindjic. After two and a half years, we have a situation again, that after three and a half years, the mafia edits the newspaper. For days in another newspaper, called "Justice", prepared ground for this, the texts and statements of one of those who participated in all of this, so that today on the cover of "Kurira" a picture of Cedomir Jovanovic was published above which is "killer". What would happen if any other head of the parliamentary group or president of any other parliamentary party were this marked in the paper? I'm asking what the press associations are doing, but I need to ask a key question - what's the Special Court doing? There are criminal charges against lawyers who have instructed their clients and taught them how to lie. It stands in the Special Court and we expect the Special Court to react on that basis. Once again, the president of Serbia's fourth-largest party, the head of the parliamentary group, today is in a newspaper called "killer", a man who has answered the court's call each time and has answered all the questions he has been asked. Unfortunately, for five years since the prime minister's murder, we have once again had a situation where the mafia and certain parts of the outlawed or some state-owned security structures have been editing newspapers and those in them representing policies that conflict with the ideas of those who edit this newspaper are called "killers". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12465	I ask Mrs. Milic Vojic-Markovic to take her word for Milutin Jelic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12466	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS and New Serbia have submitted three identical amendments, because the practical position of these two parties is that the state must not burden its mistakes and for its wrong decisions, such as the application of the SAA, shifts to the burden of citizens and introduces and increases excise duties on domestic products, such as beer at the moment. Instead of taking the biggest burden and the main blow of the global economic crisis to the country's shoulders and system of adequate measures, fully effective measures, the government of Serbia reacts on behalf of the state to protect citizens from the consequences of this great crisis, the Government is completely calm, I must say that this is the most efficient one - transferring this main burden to the back of citizens. It is quite obvious that the government does not have a completely concrete plan to overcome the global crisis, as there is no system of adequate measures that could help citizens and make the crisis kind of overcome. That we are not speaking this by heart, or as an MP for the DSS, I cannot allow myself to tell empty stories, as a vice president of the government does. I'll support this claim with a few things. One is, or I will compare Dinkic and Prime Minister Cvetkovic's statements. Prime Minister Cvetkovic says the Serbian government has already given principles to combat the economic crisis. Last night as a guest on a television show, the Prime Minister repeated all this. Minister Dinkic says - until now, the government has not come out with concrete measures, as we have measured the effects of the crisis well, so it continues, that by the end of January, the government will prepare a comprehensive programme of measures to overcome the global economic crisis. So what we as DSS MPs have repeatedly pointed out -- simply, they are so different statements and they deny each other that we are not clear whether they are with each other in government, not talking or having a problem not accepting each other's solutions. It shows again that the government is in crisis and that it is not up to an adequate response right now. What it is is a fact, so this says enough about the government. We are now looking at several measures that the government has prepared and that it says are measures and that we simply comment on them. What we see in the first wave -- that they are so clearly different that the ministers in the government, the prime minister in the government, speak very differently about them, even some say they do not exist, others say they have been applied and are very good. One of the first measures is the budget. The DSS lawmakers have repeatedly pointed out that the budget is completely wasteful in the area when it comes to travel, the needs of ministers, their cabinets. We also said when it came to the budget that 5,640,000,000, how separated it is in the travel budget, and how large a sum of money and that it cannot in any way be subdued by - restrictive. That's what I supported, and then, and I want it now, what it looks like when Minister Dragin travels to Montreal for a conference, he was Minister of Ecology. When the organiser gives him a plane ticket to the economic class, he rejects it and looks for a business class and then the Serbian government economically pays for the full stay and ticket for Minister Dragina, who cannot be driven by the economic class. Of course, in the second part of the budget is the budget and how restrictive, let's see where it is? For example, in agriculture, our only and greatest chance of agriculture has 15% less subsidies. Then, in the part of social giving, let's talk about childcare. We are one of the oldest nations, gentlemen, and our parent-to-child sum is 1,770 dinars -- as much as the state cares about. The aid was received by 387,000 families, so 387,000 people, with a figure of 1,770 dinars, wondering if they would get that number as well. Next, we're restrictive when it comes to paying off a parent's allowance. It's taken by 5.130 families. When it comes to children with disabilities, we're so proud of all of this -- and we can't provide, I'm talking about a specific child here, that he goes from Krupnje to Loznica. So much for that -- so we can't pay for the trip. What, then, with the student standard - restrictions? Youth Foundations - Restriction? Sports scholarships - restrictions? What about the evasive and displaced faces - restrictions? What about pregnant and maternity illnesses, so much is said; what about the transition fund - restrictions? So this ministry, which should help the poorest citizens to overcome the crisis, is weakened by 4.5 billion dinars in the budget -- all these givings are questionable. Another measure: A 10% compulsory insurance has been collected. The government also announces that the vehicle registration will be collected three times, be careful, 300%. I have to mention that there are countries that have no registration fees at all, like England. Of course, it will now further cause a whole wave of gatherings, which will be caused by the collection of transport services, which of course will be paid by the citizens again. Then, here was mentioned VAT during yesterday and today will be mentioned, because there's obviously some kind of VAT problem here. We, DSS MPs, are calling for a very concrete interview with Mrs Dragutinovic. Then, you have Mrs Dragutinovic's interview in the "Economist" magazine, where she also mentions the increase in VAT as a real possibility, although it would really be much smarter if, instead of increasing VAT, VAT was introduced simply to increase VAT collection, because it is quite obvious that there are those who do not pay VAT. I have to point out that there are so many cafes, rafts, night bars that don't pay VAT at all, and it's absolutely certain that that money goes somewhere, into someone's budget goes, but the state budget doesn't go. My proposal and the DSS proposal are in fact to increase VAT collection and that the state is working to create an institutional framework, which would make this increase in VAT collection adequate, not an increase in VAT, as an increase in VAT would lead to price increases, inflation, the emergence of a grey economy in the same number and quantity as it was 90s ago, then pressure on the rate of dinar and back of citizens. Also, what they need to comment on is another measure, which is the system of laws that are in front of us today and what is common today, is that they are made as re-taxes, a re-enlargement of the impact on the back of citizens and on the economy of this country, which obviously has problems and, instead of helping the state, it cannot come out of all this, because it cannot be released from the state, from the need for the state to collect as much as possible. Since the Minister of Finance was just ahead of the new year, when we adopted the budget, she commented on her performance with one sentence from Harry Potter, I was simply in a position to comment on that these bill proposals that are in front of us today actually resemble the proposals made directly by the Sheriff of Nottingham. So, such a removal of the back and skin from the back of citizens that the state could justify what it imagined as an experiment, which is a phenomenally imagined way of unilaterally applying some kind of agreement, which is a complete absurdity. On the other hand, the fact that nowhere in the world exists and what costs the citizens of Serbia is now charged by the citizens again and that citizens are paying again for its failed experiment and its need to get close to Europe in any way. What is obvious is that this approach of the EU will remain precisely on this unilateral application agreement, and that is all the EU citizens of Serbia will see, although this government is also in the campaign, and even after its formation, promising them a white Schengen visa, and candidate status for EU entry, and a particularly better standard of citizens, and 200,000 jobs, and free actions, and pensions and I don't know what else to list, because it will take a long time to do so. Of all that today, it's quite clear there's nothing. This government is unable to counter the crisis, nor is it able to help citizens to get through with as little consequences as possible. Citizens obviously have to pay for the government's mistake and government's ignorance. What's interesting is there's some kind of action here, government measures, but they're normally completely non-synchronized, they don't follow each other and they don't have a system. It's one of the real and major dangers, and the government could work a little bit on synchronization, because it will enter the history of this country as a government that has worked completely non-synchronically. What's important is to say as a DSS MP that the DSS has warned the government that it will arrive at this moment. Since September, MPs of the DSS have been behind the speaker by warning the government and offering concrete proposals, to start thinking about it in time and to try to help the citizens. So, without a shred of certainty, we, as MPs of the DSS, thought we should stand in that section with the government, help her if she doesn't know, and apparently she doesn't. We've offered a lot of bill proposals here. The prime minister said last night that he, as the first measure he took, invited editors of television and newspapers. It has nothing to do with brains. What does editors and journalists have to do with anything? I know this government works as a media house, but I just think it was smarter then, in October or November, you invited the businessmen, as you invited them in mid-January, and then you talked to them, or maybe then, before you signed the extended collective agreement, invited all the actors and participants, so you agreed, and didn't give the citizens any hope that you wanted to help them overcome the crisis in a human way, and then quietly got out and said, "Puj dots don't apply, since 1 January there's no money, there's nothing more. So if you can't work and you can't, look at the system of laws or the system of measures proposed by the DSS, you'll have something to learn and you'll help these citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12467	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Judita Popovic first appeared, and then Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12468	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who knows which time one man is exposed to the public. It is normal for Cedomir Jovanovic, president of the LDP parliamentary group in this assembly. Representatives of certain institutions have publicly accused him, because on the third page of the list "Kurir" the titles -- set up by Šljuku, Dejan Milenkovic Bagzi before the Special Court accused Cedomir Jovanovic of ordering the liquidation of Sredo Sljukic and so on, is nothing more than a public indictment, a public link of one man. I don't know when this country will finally realize that words can and can kill you. It wouldn't be the first time in this country for anyone to get hurt because of those words. I would remind you of the link that exposed the late President Djindjic, I would remind you of the murder of journalist Curuvija etc. Who knows how many times they've had the consequences of killing, or endangering the lives of individuals. Besides, this war we survived, and all the previous wars, they always had as the predecessor a murderous word that leads to tragedy. Unfortunately, institutions, such as the Bar Association, the so-called independent judiciary, such as journalists' associations, such as ultimately parliament, do not react. It is very rude and very malignant that the Bar Association is not advertised for the public advertising of certain journalists, as their names appear in the context of a very strange and very harmful text. It's strange that there's no word from the court, the council that tried, who also questioned that witness, who allegedly said what was written here. The MPs who have made certain statements do not speak either. These statements are not given in this sense to put all of this into question, normally I think about the above text, but it's simply accepted healthy for almost what's written, which means that we're going to go back to that principle -- one man told me, and let's spit, let's mud someone, to destroy them, to endanger them, so maybe it will result in the complete destruction of that man. I truly believe that it is unworthy of this assembly, all of these institutions that I have listed, unless they make their statements, which have been published in the newspaper. I suppose that's really what the quotes are from the press. Therefore, unless it is spoken out, they do not fence and explain their allegations, in which case I think we have a big problem, because otherwise all these institutions are in crisis, and this text just proves that this crisis continues to deepen and does not stop abuse of words and newspapers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12469	Mr. Marash has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12470	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, member of the 104th Parliament's dignity. The dignity of the congregation can be marred by act and inaction, both by words and by silence. I call upon those who yesterday, or at least representatives of their parties, who made statements yesterday for today's Courier, on whose front page I underline, the president of a parliamentary party called the killer, who made comments in the text, to come out for this pay phone and say what they think about it. We call on the Special Prosecutor's Office to respond as well. Criminal charges have been filed against the instigators of those convicted of killing the prime minister, who encouraged them to lie. That's what the D.A.'s office says, those criminal charges. I must remind you that in a verdict on the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, Cedomir Jovanovic was designated as the target of the same ones who committed the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, so he was their target. Today, two and a half years after a judicial verdict, Cedomir Jovanovic is again being set as a target. Is because LDP has a rating that is growing every day, whether because Cedomir Jovanovic and LDP are a danger to someone or because mobsters are again editing the newspaper, which is again the parts of the state's service that are editing the newspaper. I call on representatives of the ruling majority and those who, along with the late prime minister and Cedomir Jovanovic, shared the same fate to say a word about this, to stand in the way of this lynch. This is how it started in late 2002-2003, to prepare the ground for days. This time the target is again Cedomir Jovanovic. He was called in a newspaper killer. Please, too, Professor. Micunovic, you know him very well, and you know what's been going through these years, that you're reacting, and that you're saying what you think about it, and I'm calling on those who made statements yesterday for today's newspaper to say about this pay phone what they think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12471	Mr. Micunović, then Mr. Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12472	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, it was not necessary for anyone to invite me to do what I would normally do and what I do. Every time there is a threat to law, security, security, especially by the criminal groups we've been fighting for so long, for over 20 years, in any case not only can it count on me, but consider me to be the greatest possible force to fight against it. The problem of the list "Kurr" has culminated with this, but we've had many examples, and that's something that has to be addressed not only by the prosecution, but also by the press itself, to which the measures can go and to which the abuses of the press can be dangerous. In this regard, I call on all MPs to protect the integrity of both the Assembly and their colleagues, and of course to protect the country's reputation and to fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12473	Thank you. Mr. Milenic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12474	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is my pleasure that you have properly recognized the moment and given the word of Prof. Micunovic, although I had contacted earlier, because this is exactly what I wanted to join, and the full meaning has been achieved by Mr. Maraš. Certainly, not only in our own personal name, but also in the name of the political organisation - Together for Kragujevac, whom I belong to, but also in all of the G17 Plus parliamentary groups, we add to these claims a single appeal and news associations, esnafic, professional and total liberal public of Serbia, to turn over the issues of halves, calls on the link over the freedom of the individual who acts publicly, simply into a positive social action. At the same time, this is the reason to remember that on many other occasions such actions have lagged behind, and somehow, by the game of the case, the most frequently known figures from the political scene of Serbia in such media, the most easily formed front of solidarity on a negative basis, are those who represent the idea of a liberal political concept and which advocate the market emancipation and the real liberation of this society. Hence, it is not difficult for us to assume, when Mr. Jovanovic is next to him, it seems to me, a more convincingly attacked personality is Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, but also the president of the state, Mr. Tadic himself, when such personalities most often appear as the subject of such attacks, it is a serious question to imagine -- what is the actual range of institutions, where are centres of power that can direct the public, and beyond the reach of public oversight based on elected representatives of citizens in the institutions where they act and that it calls for solidarity of the overall democratic, pro-European, liberalally defined public in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12475	I also thank you for understanding the order of words. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the amendment submitted by fellow MP Mr Dejan Mirovic to Article 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act and this amendment proposed changing the amount of excise duty on beer from 15 to 10 dinars per litre. The government has decided to refuse this amendment. The SRS parliamentary group believes that at a time when the consequences of the economic and financial crisis are greatly felt in Serbia, no excise duty should be increased, as this directly increases the retail price of the product. The current retail prices for beer in Serbia, depending on the manufacturer, are about 38 dinars for half liters in glass packaging, about 80 dinars for liters in plastic packaging and 115 to 140 dinar for two liters in plastic packaging. Under conditions in which Serbia is due to the current crisis, any price hike is a blow to the citizens. It's inappropriate to talk about whether it's necessary for someone to consume or not to consume beer. By increasing the amount of excise duty, it does not necessarily mean that the excise income will also be higher. There is a possibility of a decline in the turnover of products whose price will be increased. That could also happen with the beer traffic, someone from the revolt due to the pick-up, someone because of the inability to separate the money for it, won't buy beer. Serbian citizens, due to the current economic crisis and due to poor living standards, have been able to give up many other foods for years, so whoever has to give up beer consumption, and will be able to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia for that, because the price of beer will be increased due to the government's decision to unilaterally implement the Transition Trade Agreement. Most of the opposition's MPs, and when we talked about the budget, and now when we talk about a set of accompanying financial laws, warned of the damages that would be done to Serbia because of a unilateral application of the agreement, but for the government it does not matter. We will continue to talk about it for one simple reason. We believe that we are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to work in the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and not at their expense. Because she gave up some of the customs revenue on imports of goods from the EU, the government had to find a way to somehow increase revenues in the budget and here we have new retail prices, conditioned by the increase in excise duties, and that price is paid by end-users of the product. Someone may say that the proposed increase in excise duty per beer of 2.59 dinar per litre, which is the difference between the 15 dinars proposed and 12.41 dinar, which is the last harmonised amount of excise on beer, is not some big addition. However, Serbian radicals believe that everything that goes to Serbia's citizens, and because of the benefits of EU citizens, is much, so this amount of 2.59 dinars per litre is too high. We warned when the Assembly's agenda was that it was harmful for Serbia, that foreign signatories of the treaty were not equal, that Serbia was in a subordinate position to the EU countries. None of this has reached the ruling congregation’s majority. The agreement has been accepted. But because of the Dutch decision, the EU will not apply this agreement. Our government has decided to unilaterally apply this agreement. In addition to this decision, Serbia is no closer to the EU door, as there is always some new blackmail prepared. European Stability Initiative President Gerald Knaus said he is not sure that arresting Ratko Mladic would be enough for Serbia to get a date for starting EU membership negotiations, but would certainly help to gain candidate status. Now I'm going to name a few more blackmails in a row. The head of the European Parliament's delegation for relations with Southeast European countries, Doris Pak, says it is a question of whether Serbia should recognise Kosovo will not discuss it, until the International Court of Justice delivers an opinion on whether the declaration of independence is legal and what the UN has requested. As we await the court's decision, Belgrade should know that Albanians and Serbs must live together in Kosovo and do everything to ensure their normal lives. It is important that Serbs have enough food, electricity, money, and this will happen if Belgrade gives up its parallel structures in Kosovo and starts co-operation with Pristina. That's what Doris Puck says. The European Parliament's rapporteur for Kosovo, Just Lagendajk, points out that no one will ask Serbia to recognise Kosovo during this year, because it does not matter now, but adds that the issue of Serbian recognition of Kosovo will one day have to be asked, because every country that becomes an EU member must develop good relations with its neighbours. Then, European Parliament rapporteur for Serbia Jelko Kacin says it is important that Serbia has good neighbourly relations with Kosovo. We cannot ask Serbia to recognise Kosovo unless neither Spain nor Romania, which are members of the Union, but Belgrade must commit itself to Serbs in Kosovo, not to work on its damage and try to prevent the export of goods marked by the Kosovo state. Serbia was Kosovo's first economic partner and must know that economic co-operation is the best way to stay Serbs in Kosovo -- says Jelko Kacin. I think this is enough for everyone to understand what the intentions and goals of European friends of the Serbian government are. In addition, the transitional trade agreement will be unilaterally applied in Serbia, which will make excise goods more expensive, and all of us remain to ask ourselves - is there any end? It seems the end of Serbia's problems is out of the question. The big problem Serbia faced before the end of last year is the decline in the value of domestic currency. Strong euro jumps, which do not correspond to citizens or businesses, are due to a lack of foreign exchange. From September 2005 to September 2008, inflation increased by about 30% and the exchange rate increased by 10%. So there was a gap between inflation and course, and once it had to come to what happened, right now when the global economic crisis began. In an effort to slow down excessive dinar losses, the National Bank of Serbia sold 288.1m euros in the interbank market in December last year and bought 19.4m euros to mitigate excessive daily exchange rate oscillations. Otherwise, central bank foreign reserves at the end of December last year amounted to 8.15 billion euros, which means they were reduced by 892.4m euros in that month, and in 2008 a total of 1.49 billion euros. During this year, the National Bank of Serbia intervened on the interbank market four times in about 15 days. The increase in the rate of the euro has conditioned an increase in import prices in many Serbian shops. Technical goods prices increased by 5-15%. By the end of January, prices of a large number of products are expected to rise by 5-10%. The meat collection is expected by about 10%. As a reason for the accumulation, it is said that the June meat will accumulate due to dinar weakness in relation to the euro, and pork due to the shortage, as well as the pig growers, who have raised living scale prices due to the euro's jump. In December, the price of live scale was 115 dinars per kilogram, and now between 140 and 145 dinars. In addition to butchers, prices will increase the company's "Center product", which has spices, soups, sauces, canned fruit in its range. The decision was made because most of these products are related to import raw materials, and the reason is that the euro leap. That's why this company's products will be more expensive by 7-8%. In conditions like this, when citizens have been living hard for a long time, new pressures can bring inexplicable consequences. That's why the SRS is pushing for an increase in excise duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12477	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12478	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Honored Madam Minister and Honored Citizens of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment on behalf of the parliamentary group on this member, which is in fact freed from the payment of the excise duties of diplomatic representations, members of the family of staff employed in diplomatic representations, but also of some international organisations, members of the families of those who are employed in those international organisations. As for diplomatic representations, which are only around 70 in Belgrade, we count that there are something in the interior, I mean Subotica and Nis, and the staff that works there, it's something that is related to international contracts, international co-operation, etc. We had no objection to that because it has been a practice so far. As far as international organisations are concerned, above all they are not specific in this article, whether they are humanitarian organisations, whether they are political organisations, whether they are business organisations. So, all these international organizations that are in our territory, first of all, must be defined what their interests are. If they're already here, they have some interests and they do. We are not for citizens to be discriminated against, above all, because we are very often witnesses that their interests are not in line with the interests of Serbian citizens. If we know that excise duties are primarily a significant part of the budget, if we know that the inflation generator's budget is not properly managed, then we certainly don't need to release this part of foreign excise payment organisations. We can fill the budget with different resources. We talked about it yesterday, first of all, the MPs of the SRS, and when we talked about fuel, first of all diesel fuel spent in agriculture, we said that significant funds can be pooled into the budget by paying off debts based on renting, renting state land. We saw yesterday it's only part of that or the tip of the iceberg in one of the Duke's municipalities. If they shake or search all the Dukean municipalities, believe me, we'll have one serious agrarian affair, we'll have a date with the agrarian mafia. Only in my district, the Western-Baba County, is estimated to be charged by this type of debtor one close to three million euros, a significant figure for the budget. I really suggest that the government take this problem seriously and try to complement the budget that is very vulnerable this year, very sensitive and certainly insufficient for all that citizens need this year, in the way they count on the budget. We don't need anyone who comes out of the world more important than our citizens, and we need citizens to feel that they're protected from this government at any time, if this government can give it to them in any way. So, once again, I appeal for the budget to be filled from above all real debt, and at this point they exist and they are enormous. Agriculture, not the one that's been developed by our couples, they pay it fairly, they take as much as they can and among the first are always about all accounts. They're in charge of paying their bills, they don't owe anyone. But those tycoons that took hundreds, thousands of hectares in Vojvodina, and Vojvodina has over a million and 780,000 acres of orac, we know then how important that can be in the budget. Therefore, I expect the government to focus on this kind of debt that, in this year's sea, should be, and it's important to be charged.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12479	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12480	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, that any amendment that is constructive in terms of budgeting should be welcomed and accepted. I would certainly indirectly give support to this and all the other amendments that are before you today and these days before you MPs. It is true that in some way Mr. Dulic's discussion last night, that is, his final word caused reactions in the context of saying that Serbia, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, is not considering an increase in VAT rates. It's totally in line with what you were saying about public information. But somehow, I would say, I would stay in the shadow of that second finding and the second part of the sentence that he said, that is, his presentation, which is very interesting and should be mentioned here, which is the fact that if the government finds itself, based on an analysis, and defines that the revenue, i.e. the realisation of the 2009 budget, is not going according to plan, will be defined for some other steps, and these are steps to impose even more restrictive public spending, i.e. cutting that public sector. Why is that so important? This is very important because the government already knows that there is a space for public spending to be reduced. On the other hand, for us in the SRS it is very important that it gives legitimacy to all criticisms on the burden of budgets, on the burden of public spending and on the criticism of all the laws that should be following the laws, i.e. the laws that provide the revenue side of the budget. This means that the government has not already decided to end up being restrictive on the economic, or financial opportunities that we expect in 2009. It seems to me that somehow from heaven it is expected either those end-users or economic opportunities consumers in the country to come from them, to say, the spare or the last atoms of economic sources or economic powers, instead of, what they say, cleaning fish from the head itself, or public spending is already being fucked at the level of the ministries, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When the state finds itself in such an opportunity, the people, the citizens of the state, objectively expect to see a responsible government and see some very real and tangible steps and measures that the government will anticipate and define to respond to all the uncertainty that we expect in the year or days of the economic crisis. It seems to me that in this case it is not and that some of the steps, at least from the SRS aspect, come forward by individual ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, government officials are certainly unserious and irresponsible, and too unserious and for the position that people are taking, but also for the opportunities that await us. Look, let's say, Mr. Milosavljevic, the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia says, you know, inflation will not be on the rise, and prices will fall because of profits, so market demand will be lower and will objectively keep prices from growth, or inflation. This is really unserious and irresponsible on the one hand, and on the other hand, the government's attitude towards problems has also been saying that since 1 January of this year public services have been more expensive and this is something that directly affects the inflationary movements in Serbia in 2009. Only because of that fact is the objective question of whether inflation in 2009 will be able to be within the frameworks that the government has defined, I suppose it was eight or nine percent, or we are convinced it will enter the two-digit amount. It's irresponsible and I think there's plenty of space that the government itself creates and gives room for every criticism and for every conviction. Here should also be mentioned the fact that, due to an unreasonable decision on the unilateral application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the government decided to defend it, boasting of the preferences it received on exports of sugar, baby-bif, on wine exports, etc. Something we've already had, in the amounts we've already had, we've been boasting about, and it's especially important to mention wine here since we're 'known' as the eminent and receptive wine producers known for their wine in the world. There you could, unfortunately, mention one example, I am reluctant to call on Croatia, which has managed to get greater preferences than Serbia, because using pre-accession funds, it has succeeded in producing all these products to increase compared to Serbia. Be careful, because of your neoliberal concept, they have managed to produce sugar tail in Serbia to increase the production of turnip sugar in Croatia, i.e. the placement of their sugar in the EU. But that doesn't say anything about them, it mostly speaks about the government, the government's relationship and the government's responsibility to the state itself. Of course, there's something I'm going to mention again that I've been saying these days. This country, objectively, will not be able to account for these pre-accession funds that will ensure economic growth or meet certain standards. You will not be able to count until 2013, because they have defined their budgets and these financial plans in general in the long term and in this case plan them by 2013. When it comes to excise goods, cigarettes and oil, cigarettes have already increased around the New Year, not waiting for us to pass these laws, or adopt laws that will increase excise duties on them. Philip Morris picked up cigarettes between five or 10 dinars, followed by the Vranj Bat raising prices for ten dinars. What will happen to prices after the adoption of these excises will see what a trend of growth will have. Here, too, the irresponsible explanations of individuals from the government should be condemned to raise excise duties to control tobacco trafficking, including for health reasons. If that's the aspect you had in mind and considered, why haven't you raised it in 2003, if you're up to your health? In the EU, excise duties on tobacco are somewhere and up to 57%, we are certainly less. You could have picked them up right away, if you really cared about citizens' health and control of tobacco traffic. However, you are also trying to cover up the bad aspects of unilateral application of the SAA. When it comes to oil, it is very bad that excises will increase due to the trend in the price of oil barrels on the world market. For the first time in years, who knows how many years the world's largest oil producers are going to meet budget deficits this year. Of course, I'm doing this depression to point out the fact that with the current $39 barrel of oil going down, it's supposed to be, maybe up to $25. This would give room to define a favourable price for energy, i.e. oil and oil derivatives in Serbia, which would certainly have a stimulating effect on Serbia's production. This production would, in any sense, allow, through lower prices of derivatives, to be lower prices of all products and, I repeat, would certainly work stimulatingly on all producers, which should essentially be the basis for ensuring economic security in 2009. Unfortunately, the government is not prepared to deal essentially with the problem. The government has decided on the budget it is. They'll plan, wait and do the monthly analysis, and then in a month, they'll probably define something she could have done at the beginning. We're wasting time, we're wasting money. You're simply the government of the verse, not the government of strategy and concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12481	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic and Zoran Shami. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12482	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Minister, I have tabled an amendment and suggested that the member of the law be deleted. I don't normally propose such amendments, but it was the simplest way to keep excise duty on tobacco and tobacco products from changing anything, i.e. that those excises don't increase. I was already saying here that, unlike the congregation majority, we have completely different views on that spending side of the budget, and on the other hand, I think all MPs in the Assembly must be interested in achieving the revenue side of the budget. But unfortunately, I think it's going to be very difficult. I think, on the one hand, the possibility of achieving 698 billion dinars of income is overrated, and on the other hand, I'm afraid there are no real ways to increase revenues I've already said about one completely wrong, completely wrong logic, that if a product is intended for a 10% tax, so you double it, it will be automatically doubled and revenues. It's a completely wrong logic, and there's no way out of that logic. Among other things, and there are many other examples in this bill, this applies to tobacco and tobacco products. Of course, a view of tobacco at all could be a particular topic, which at the moment has little to do with the topic on the agenda. What I need at this point about tobacco to deal with, that's how we get the proceeds from tobacco. I'm going to say something special later about how we normally act like a state in connection with tobacco. I'll say that later. For now, let me say the following and the basics. I don't think an increase in excise duty on tobacco is going to increase by a dinar by revenue from that. I'm deeply convinced of that. If nothing else, I have 45-year-old experience with tobacco, which is how much I smoke, and I've always spent on tobacco as much as my options have allowed. When tobacco was more expensive, I smoked a worse kind of tobacco. That's what's gonna happen this time. So, after all the oaths of folk health, in fact, the only consequence of this is that people are going to smoke a lower quality of cigarettes, with more tar and more nicotine, and the revenue from that in the budget is not going to be. It is similar with many other products for which excise duties are increased. There is one exception where direct revenues will be higher, which is to increase excise duties on energy, i.e. oil, gasoline and everything else. There will be a direct increase in revenue, but you will have a loss on the other side and it will be great. By the way, when I mentioned it, we usually have a completely wrong perception that energy is spent most when we sit in a car and drive, however, the most energy is spent on something that cannot be avoided, which is on the transport of passengers and goods. Thus, by increasing the excise on energy, you have actually hit the citizens' pocket for many other products. The increase in oil necessarily means increasing everything from bread, milk, yogurt, meat, potatoes and onions. Go to the market and ask any peasants at the gig, he'll explain it very precisely. The moment the price of gasoline jumps, the moment the price of potatoes, onions and everything the farmer sells. That's quite clear. Not to mention more serious costs in other spheres. So what you're going to get on the bridge, you're going to lose on the pot. It is that you will get directly more money than selling energy, but also the people will not have the money to spend on some other products of which the state also takes its share of the cake. That part of the cake will, of course, be smaller and it's the final story. I was already saying, it seems to me, I didn't see it just in this law, but also in the stories that are being told, when we heard about the possibility of increasing VAT, I apologize, from the mouth of the finance minister, she gave an interview, if I'm not mistaken, in the Evening News, where she hinted as a possibility, which I personally think is a completely "genial" solution. Speaking of tobacco, our state-of-the-art tobacco policy is interesting. First of all, to be clear, there is absolutely nothing to do with all the sheiks that are concerned about people's health against tobacco with people's health, because there are other areas in which we could explicitly show and prove it. This tobacco hack gets a different light when you take one irrefutable piece of information that from the moment of opening that hack five or six years ago in the world, the income of the tobacco industry, and hence the state has grown five times. That's what this is about. That story has already been seen. At the time of the great economic crisis of the 30s in America, there was another type of heist, a heist on alcohol. It's forbidden to pour alcohol, my God, and then the United States, in collaboration with criminal organizations, made huge money on alcohol, because of course they got the chance to, I don't know, sell a glass of whiskey ten times more expensive than they could normally sell. That's true. That's what happens today with tobacco. The ban on tobacco and the damage of small cafes, who don't, etc. fall into the water when you read that information about five times the amount of tobacco industry. I'd understand if we took care of something that was our advantage. We have conditions for serious tobacco production. No, our government abolishs the benefits to tobacco producers and practically beats all those benefits to importers of any finished cigarettes, any foreign producers that produce in our country, however, they have profits. So we're taking care of them, and it's actually this lobby that suits the higher price of tobacco, and we want to completely destroy domestic production. It's like this one little segment to think about. All the countries in the world are making money, they need to make money, but they need to make money where we benefit, not where someone else benefits. This is now, however, more messages to Ms. Kalanovic's party colleague, the health minister, to make a little less noise about tobacco, and that a little more the government in the case of tobacco makes sure where the country's overall interests are. I don't question the fact that tobacco is harmful to health, but health is harmful to a lot of what's around us, that I don't list everything. I'm going to quote our academic Mr. Canazir, who was once in college, he was usually a chemist, at a lecture about 40 years ago said -- biologically observed, it's an irrefutable fact, which is that it's harmful to live. That, of course, is biologically true, from the moment we're born, we start to die, so that our cells die, first little, later on, more and more. Therefore, even though we are now not subject to health, the topic is how to put money into the budget. With the proposed solution, you won't sow it, that's for sure. The only effect of that, I repeat, will be that the people will smoke the worse quality of cigarettes, in other words, you will further endanger his health, though his will, or if you will by my will, if it's about me. That's it. In the end, I'm afraid, everyone here mentions the possibility of rebalancing, and we heard yesterday Mr. Dulic say he has to think about it, because my God, you don't know what the effects will have on him like this. I'm not so sure the effects can't be predicted. All you have to do is be smart enough for a man to predict them. They're not some things that are unknown in the world. Besides, it's enough to look at what some different serious and richer countries are doing right now and how they think they're solving these problems. Some of what they're applying can be applied to us. I repeat, you learn once already that math that 300 percent on zero is zero and 5% on 100 dinars is five dinars. Therefore, the higher tax, the higher VAT, the greater the kidnapping of the peoples of money does not mean more money at the same time. It may mean less money if you have destroyed the ability of citizens to spend, you have practically destroyed the will of citizens to produce. Last time, I listed a banana example of beer. Of course, there are far more serious examples on the subject, more complicated. Anyway, I'm afraid the government doesn't have any clear in its head what it's supposed to do to me, no matter what I belong to the opposition, it's not nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12483	The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12484	I'll do my best, of course I don't think I can convince the government, because it's an impossible mission, but to let the public know what it's really about. Since 2009, that is, since the adoption of the amendment to the Excise Act, we will have two excise duties on tobacco processing. We're going to have one that's fixed, dynamically changing by year, so in 2009, there's 11 dinars per pack, in 2010. 16 dinars, 2011 20 dinars, and in 2012 there will be 24 dinars per pack of cigarettes. It is a member of 40a which is amended by Article 18. It's a bill of law. This amendment Mr. Shami spoke of refers to the second part. Now it could be said we have two excises when it comes to cigarettes. This other excise duty is 35% at the retail price of a pack of cigarettes. Now, since the retail price of cigarettes is unique, it has some internal structure. There's a producer's price, there's going to be excise one, excise two, sales tax, rebate, that's that structure. Can we figure out what that's going to be? Hard to say at this point, it's important to balance cigarettes from imports and cigarettes from domestic production. You see, we are selectively approaching something that is European standard. There are probably 3-5 euros in cigarettes, regardless of the quality, depending on the state to the state, but that's the situation, it's sold on every corner of the machine. They are expensive cigarettes, but if the average salary is 1,600 euros, it's a risk to the one who lives there and consumes tobacco. If the average salary here is what it is, probably 3-5 euros per pack of cigarettes would be a great burden for those who enjoy this vice. Smoking is a vice and the end of a story. It's vice, and when you eat too much, it's vice, and when you drink too much, it's vice, and when someone gets high. I'd treat the problem of tobacco addiction as well as cholesterol and triglycerides. You don't tell anyone that cholesterol is dangerous, but he likes charms to eat. That the situation isn't so simple is that 20% of people who work in health care smoke cigarettes. It used to be a joke, when a patient goes to a lung doctor, and he coughs, and this guy takes a cigarette out of his mouth, so he tells him you should cut it down a little bit. It's hard to talk and to have some rational discussion about something that tastes, vice, habits, but I think this is a great imposition on, first of all, smokers. There will be no effect on which Tomica's purse is thinking. He's a protagonist of this action -- a smoking ban, etc. You have a medical aspect and I can agree, but it didn't have any effect, obviously something else should be done here. What I'm sure this amendment to the Excise Act will cause as a consequence, and if these government people don't know, then those in the Ministry of Finance would have to know, that in all those products where the tax burdens are on any basis significant, by the nature of things, that goods go into illegal traffic because they're big profits. Take the sales tax, take the excise one, take the excise two and you'll see by each pack how much stimulation there is for that product to go into illegal traffic. This is the only ratio that exists between the products, the balance needs on the market, the price structure and what, in the case of illegal traffic, would belong to the state, belongs to the participants in illegal traffic and that money is a motivation for illegal traffic. That's what you need to know. You'll hear from the situation that if it goes into export, it's been released from these obligations, the paperwork is going to be walking cigarette hats, and they're going to end up on our market. That's what you need to know. So, excises, tax if they're in the structure of the retail price of a significant item, by nature things have to leak where there's a hole. I've only given you one example. Paperwork went into export, freed from the obligation to pay taxes and excise taxes, and it did not move from the factory circle, but ended in illegal traffic. Just to remind you, there is still one major dispute in front of one of the New York courts that has been launched by the EU at the time of the European Community against the world's ten largest cigarette manufacturers. Why New York? Because because of their tax policy, everyone formally registered headquarters in New York City. At first, however, it was rejected, but they found one judge who accepted jurisdiction and conducted the procedure. It is estimated that on the basis of excise duties and taxes from EU members, at the time of the European Community, they suffered damages of over ten billion dollars. Then a study was made and it was shown that there are five channels of illegal cigarette traffic, both via Cyprus and through Montenegro, and through Serbia, through Italy and through the Adriatic for Italy. Milo Djukanovic, or his sister's lawyer, carried in Bara a certain range every six months to stop the proceedings against Milo Djukanovic. Even with their Supreme Court, it was a problem whether proceedings against the president of a state could be conducted and whether his immunity, which exists in Montenegro, could be applied in Italy, so the ambassador, including the ambassador, even the consul, could not tell you about it, were written large books and series of articles. What you're proposing only promotes illegal traffic. To be clear, I don't save smokers, I don't appeal to make a price that would be so small that a cigarette could be available to anyone, I don't advocate it. I'm not saying smoking cigarettes is healthy, it's dangerous to carry, much more tar than nicotine, but good, but it carries the same danger as triglycerides and other things, not to talk about diabetes and not to talk about other things. We got caught here, so now through excise policy we're taking care of health and beer and alcohol. Please, it's not healthy or gasoline, I don't mean as a drinking agent, but if you're in a garage and the car is working then you're in an eco-incorrect environment. It's just that everything has its positive and its negative. I agree that society should fight smoking, but this kind of fight, to introduce a excise charge of two, still stands that value added tax, that a retail price should be determined and that a clear structure should be seen, but think about it, 11 dinars, so take a retail price of 75 dinars, if these are my cigarettes that I smoke, 35% hypothetically, you'll see that in the structure of the retail price of cigarettes the largest part goes to the state. That's where the boys are gonna play, make a deal. You know how many cigarette manufacturers there are. There have been some attempts with some tobacco agency, etc., anything can happen. You know, only the state will be guilty, or the government. You remember the counterfeit excise stamps, and the fact that cigarettes without excise stamps appear, and the fact that they appear with excise stamps from abroad and the fact that you can buy those cigarettes wherever you want, etc. Nothing wrong with the fuel situation, no matter what the NIS monopoly exists, has been established since 2001. And oil is on the illegal market. Where there's a big tax-based obligation, that product is interesting. The illegal turnover of this product is motivated by the fact that a lot of money is made in such a way as not to meet the obligations towards the state. It's simple and simple. This is how you practically stimulate such traffic. You probably have a good desire to make as much money in the budget as possible for some other functions. Of course, smokers as addicts are very grateful for that. Why? He wakes up, goes to the trade, buys cigarettes and immediately gets into the state and the criminal. They're the only ones who fund the state regularly. You don't have better state finances than smokers. The one who has a car, he can drive or doesn't have to drive, he takes the bus, and the smoker has to come, he has that dose, Shami two and a half hells, I two hells, Zoran Ostojić three hells. You count the most on me, you just need to know that I'm in a difficult material position. I'm reading the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and I'm being punished. He strangles the Serbs, and he is punished. I'm at 3,000, and he's at 3,000. I've got to start beating around the congregation, it's a small price, you see for yourself. I don't think it's such a bad idea, but if you're looking at the retail price of our cigarettes, regardless of imports or domestic production, don't be a means of comparing something that's going on, say, in Switzerland, Austria, etc., because the standard isn't the same, to be clear. Secondly, make sure this enables the development of this branch of raw tobacco production, because these producers of ours are not, not ours, but these foreigners who came and bought these factories, interested in the development of our agriculture. There's tobacco coming from Africa, too, and so on, a question of what quality. Besides, let me tell you, from the worst kind of tobacco there is, it's that Prilep, it seems to me, there's a firm in Germany, I think it's called Florin, it does an analysis and it makes a formula that can synthetically throw something and make that tobacco look like the best quality used for Marlboro and some other products. You practically have synthetic tobacco with flavors, scents. Kent's using cocoa powder, so you know. You buy cocoa powder, you get into Kent and he gets that aroma. Make sure you don't encourage a little bit of things that shouldn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12485	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ruzic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12486	I would like to say that the amendment is closely linked to the amendment to Article 18, which was submitted by the SPS-United Serbia parliamentary group. I will take the opportunity to be, on condition of being effective, to connect this amendment to Article 19 and to that amendment to Article 18, which we have not reported on. Accises or excise duties are a form of a special consumption tax, long known in theory, and they are, above all, a simple form of taxation and provide the country with safe and stable incomes. As a result, they are also very popular with the tax administration, but it is not by any chance that the state often defines that it is this way that it collects additional funds, this time and our state, with the aim of replacing a certain lack of revenue in the budget. We certainly support the government's commitment to achieve, in this way, sufficient revenue in the budget to realise the objectives planned by the budget. Among other things, excises are quite common and destimulate certain consumption, this time there may be an attempt on alcohol or, for example, tobacco reprocessing. There can also be redistribution of income through taxation of luxury products, which can happen here, conditionally speaking. Also, cover some public costs, as is the case with health costs. As for the reasons for these government-proposed moves, the determination of excise policy by 2012 can certainly be a good reason, because it provides and guarantees certain stability on the market. However, what is proposed in Articles 18 and 19, as well as an explanation that the existing structure of excise policy in this case is changing, with the aim of increasing specific excise duties on the use and reduction of proportional rates, therefore, that these nominal rates are increased, and so on. ad valorem reduction. For me and our MP club, in that case it is clearly seen and activated in the theory of the famous phenomenon of the regression effect of excise duties, because in this way we are really coming into a situation, I will explain it here specifically, as it concerns cigarettes, and show that in this way relatively higher taxes are burdened with cheaper products than the product in this case by cigarettes of the same kind, but with higher prices. Of course, the specific rate, for example, works, of 10 dinars per pack of 60 cigarettes, is, therefore, an increase of 20%, and on cigarettes of 100 dinars is about 10%. Of course, as cheaper products, in any case and this, consume wider categories of population, which are usually both poorer and weaker economic potential, in which case they bear a relatively higher burden of collecting additional income. With that in mind, we, for this reason, have, having seen this phenomenon, proposed an amendment to Articles 18 and 19, trying to resolve this problem by proposing to reduce the specific rate and to increase the ad valorem of proportional rates in Article 19 and thus achieve the same effect that the bill wants, therefore, by retaining the necessary revenue from excise duties for the budget, but by making this burden of additional collection of excise duties bear and economically stronger categories, i.e. those who buy more expensive cigarettes. With that in mind, we suggested that instead of 11.00 dinars, 8.92 dinars, instead of 16.00 dinars of 13.32 dinars, instead of 20,00 dinars of 14.20 dinars and instead of 24.00 dinars per pack of 14.97 dinars, which in this sense would cause a certain reduction and practically our proposal would be at the level of current specific excise rates. In Article 19, our proposal is for these proportional rates, i.e. ad valorem taxation to be in a way that by 31 December 2009 the rate is 38%, until 31 December 2010. 39%, 31 December 2011 40% and from 1 January to end of 2012 42%. Thus, the effect is achieved that, for example, it works on cigarettes that cost 80,00 dinars, if both of these amendments were adopted, additional revenue would be achieved and the state would receive and collect 0.32 dinars more per pack and 125 dinar cigarettes, for example, for 1.67 dinars more per pack than the government offered. Otherwise, the government proposed and offered in article 19 to make this proportional rate unique to 35%. It is clear that by adopting this amendment, buying more expensive cigarettes increases this amount and thus the burden of additional harvesting that is to be achieved is being passed on to those consumers who consume more expensive cigarettes, of course assuming that they have more economic strength and potential. We really believe that these two amendments are good, that they do not interfere with the essence of the government's policy and decision on excise duties, but indeed this regressive effect of excise duty is a very good solution. We therefore propose that these amendments be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12487	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12488	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not unexpected that the Government has resorted to an increase in excise duties on goods it considers to be luxury, although, of course, not all goods that can be considered luxury in our terms are not covered. Since we had a budget that had a huge deficit, it was supposed to reach for new funds, but the question is, how is that money going to be spent? So, if there's an increase in excise duty on tobacco, motor gasoline, diesel fuel, beer, where's the money going to go? I'm particularly interested in what's going to happen to the tobacco excise-deprived funds because of our tobacco producers? This issue is primarily addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, given the statements coming from the Ministry of Agriculture these days, and our tobacco producers are very concerned and are looking for an answer to that question. It would be logical to expect that part of these funds should be returned to tobacco producers because it is a very important segment of agricultural production. The Minister of Agriculture is speaking these days about the suspension of these subsidies, although a law has been passed in time which has been promised to tobacco producers to be subsidized by 2012. Of course, by counting on that and on legal certainty, many have committed themselves, many have taken loans, expanded their production, and are now in an unembarkable situation. So, we're obviously now, i.e. The government wants to destroy tobacco producers. Why? Thus, domestic tobacco will be more expensive if it is not subsidized than any tobacco that can be obtained in the surrounding countries. What happens next? Tobacco processors, they're mostly foreign companies with us now, they're going to import that tobacco from abroad. Even that decision that 50% of tobacco must be obtained from a domestic producer, by all those who produce cigarettes in our country, has been put aside. Think about it, please and turn your attention to the Minister of Agriculture and the Government in general - is that good? Are we going to get on one side and lose on the other side? In addition, we are warned by tobacco producers that one number, a higher number of workers, says that it is somewhere around 10,000 workers, could be out of a job. If this is some government continuity, remember, here's what Mr. Djelic was saying when we privatized the tobacco industry. He said it was an extremely good chance for us to be like the country's big tobacco producer and that it would have a significant impact on our agricultural production. Therefore, do not send bad messages, not just to our farmers or tobacco producers. This way, and foreign investors -- where today is one, tomorrow another, the day after tomorrow can be the third. Let some decision, some legal provision, let your strategy be valid not only for one government, but for a longer period of time, so that people, in any case difficult conditions, take credit, invest, invest in something, see their future in some production, so that they can certainly count on these jobs to have that kind of profit or to return what they have invested for so many years. It seems to me that this would give our economy a special momentum, and this is true because of this uncertainty, probably a lot of the resources that stand unsettled in the right way, to further reproduce and generate new profits. As you can see, when this uncertainty in the banking system because of the whole crisis in the world came and knocked on our door, many of those who had some funds and who might have wanted to invest them in something -- they pulled them out of the banks first. All this has affected the entire monetary situation further. Then it doesn't occur to them that the money they're holding now is probably in the houses or in the vaults or I don't know where to put it, because they're not sure that money can be fertilized and that they can be invested back. It's the only motive of one who has money and who wants to start a business -- for a certain period of five or ten years, it doesn't matter, somewhere before, somewhere slower, depends on what activity he wants to deal with, to return what he's invested in, and then, of course, he has some profit and that he benefits from it and the state. We don't need to choke producers and businesses but to give them a boost, right at these moments when the state is in crisis, or when there's a shortage of funds we can raise to fill the budget. As you can see, that's what all countries in Europe do. We would have to find the strength to do something like that and turn to ourselves and our resources, if we wanted them to crisis as painlessly as possible and with as few scars as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12489	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? There's a word from MP Zlata Đeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21, which changes Article 40g in the first sentence of "14.50 DIN. It's changed by a piece and it's "20,00 dinars per piece." In fact, what does this member refer to? I mean, Mr. Minister, that you could blanco here even, like, adopt this right now, without consulting with the government, because this is one of the few amendments that you can adopt without damaging anyone, even if you experience the great sympathy of citizens, because this refers to increasing excise duties on cigarettes and cigarillos. With us, a small number of citizens, very small, could say the negligible number of citizens who use this type of tobacco, it is enormously expensive, but they spend a lot of it and can pay for it. Because these are not smokers for passion, they are not from the category of smokers mentioned earlier by counterpart Krasic, who have to do this for some other reasons, they are not cigarettes for which people often reach out for anxiety. I'm a non-smoker and I like to analyze smokers and their habits, I think these are smokers - exhibitionists. That they use it more to show some power, supremacy, to show their material state and well-being. Remember that Mr. Broz, a former friend, then moved to other categories, was very happy to show up with his tampus. Today a few people, a little marginalized in politics, are very happy to take pictures with the typhoids, and I think even this minimal increase I suggested you can adopt right away -- they won't even notice it, and yet there will be some item in the budget that will increase. If there is more inflation, this increase will not mean anything to them either, so I really think - that this amendment should be adopted not by waiting for a day to vote, but by these words of mine, which I see have come across the approval of the other MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12491	Anyone else want a word? (No) If not, MP Aleksandar Martinovic has submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12492	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act. In fact, Article 24 is added to Article 40e, which reads - the government will regulate the enforcement of this law in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija during the entry into force of UN Security Council Resolution No. 1244. I have suggested that this new member of the 40th is in fact -- the government will regulate the enforcement of this law in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and UN Security Council Resolution No. 1244. The SRS thinks this formulation is far better. There is still a struggle for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, although the largest number of EU member states have recognised the unlawfully declared independence of so-called. the Republic of Kosovo. While the fight is being fought, of course, by diplomatic and political means, every regulation adopted by the Republic of Serbia must necessarily indicate that Kosovo and Metohija are in the composition of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the Constitution and Resolution 1244. Resolution 1244 did not cease to apply, was not replaced by some new Security Council resolution, and we think that this formulation is better because, if this is accepted by the Government, the UN Security Council Resolution 1244, which, apart from our constitution, represents the only legal link between the Republic of Serbia and one part of it, which is Kosovo and Metohija, may eventually cease to be valid, and will act as the legal state of this current fact, which is the anti-legal independence of Kosovo and Metohija. We therefore believe that it is necessary in this excise law to stress that Kosovo and Metohija, in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, are, above all, in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Security Council Resolution, which guarantees the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia in all its territory. I use, Mr Milosavljevic, your presence to raise and reduce the republican budget, which is very current these days, in fact since the end of last year when we started discussing the 2009 budget, which has been delayed for more than a month, not because of Parliament's guilt, or because of the guilt of opposition parties, but because of the guilt of the government that delivered it only in early December, and it had an obligation to do so on November 1st. Since the current issue is budget, income, expenditure, who will have more money, who will have less money, who needs to tighten the belt, who doesn't need to tighten it, who will spend more than in 2008, I think the question is very interesting. It has nothing to do with excise duties themselves, but it also has to do with the Republic of Serbia's budget and in particular with the revenue side, as well as the dispensary side of the 2009 budget. At the end of last year, the government of Serbia's Action Team for the end of co-operation with The Hague tribunal announced, Mr Minister, it is certainly well known to you, a monetary reward for information that would lead to the finding and deprivement of persons indicted for war crimes during armed conflicts in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. On this cash prize, or disbursement of monetary rewards, are the names of two Serbs. Young man Ratko, father of Nedjo, born March 12, 1942. By the way, this information is not accurate. So, the man was born in 1943, which was admitted by this Bruno Vekaric of yours. Says Bozanovic and Kalinovic, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the prize, Mr. Minister, no more or less, a million euros, in dinar equivalent. Another whose head was blackmailed as in the wild west, Hadzic Goran, Father Branko, born September 7, 1958, Vinkovci, Republic of Croatia. In your opinion, it is worth a little less, 250 thousand euros, but also in dinar equivalent. Now he's asking a few questions here. First of all, with what right can the Action Team of the Government of the Republic of Serbia promise anyone any reward? Action team, Mr. Minister, correct me if I'm wrong, it's not any state body. The state's body is the ministry. I might understand that you have authorized your Vukcevic to do something like this on behalf of the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes, that you have authorized one of your agencies that has countless, so since they are not doing anything, then let's discuss the War's Youth Award, but that makes it an Action Team of the Serbian Government, an auxiliary body that is not provided for at all by the Constitution or by any law, it is truly scandalous in itself. Now one question regarding the budget itself. From which funds, from which budget positions do you think you take these off, let's say both of them are located, or find denuantants who will tell you where they are and pay 250 thousand euros? What budget position are you going to take this money from? Indeed, whether the state of Serbia has legal budget revenues and expenditures, or whether this government, in addition to legal budget revenues and expenditures, has also had something, in history it was called disposal funds, and only the Prime Minister, the head of state, could know how much money there is and for what purposes it will be spent. So now I ask you, Mr. Minister, a parliamentary question -- will this million and 250 000 euros, if you are in a position to pay them, be paid out of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from which position, and if it is not paid out of the budget, ask whether this government, whether DS or any other party of the ruling coalition, is the president of the state of Boris Tadic available to some secret disposition funds that only they can have? In this regard, Mr. Minister, I am underexplicably insinuated by a historical parallel. I am convinced that at least some MPs from this ruling coalition will understand what I am about to talk about. Here, first of all, I mean the MPs from the SPO. So, the Serbian government, not only this one, but all previous Dosmania governments since 2000, boasts that you are politically followers of major European democratic flows. It was a year ago, a year and a half ago, a great controversy about whether fascism, who is fascist, who is anti-fascist, appeared in Serbia. You who are now forming a ruling coalition, you have provided for yourself a monopoly of the largest anti-fascists, not only in Serbia, but in the world. I'd like to remind you, Mr. Minister, of a very ugly practice in our tragic history, it wasn't that long ago, so you find yourself on the side of those who fought against fascism or are on the side of those who promoted fascism both in Europe and here in Serbia. The German commander of Serbia on July 21st 1943, General Paul Bader announced a prize of 100,000 Reichs marks in gold, indeed, Mr. Minister, every similarity with you is random, but it seems that history has made an effort to be intentional, he announced 100,000 Reichs marks in gold, which will be given to the one who brings, said, alive or dead, the leader of the gang, Draž Mihailovic. Mr. Minister, in order to wash your consciences to the denuncents, the snitches, the people who, possibly, will, because of the money you promise, do such a vile thing, so that they can betray the whereabouts of Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic, to wash their conscience, you use one forgery. It is a file allegedly owned by the BIA and this action team on what Ratko Mladic is like. All Republika Srpska Army fighters, the entire people of Republika Srpska, all sincere Serbian patriots and patriots know that General Ratko Mladic was, above all, a great man, a great leader and a great hero and that he never commanded -- a charge, but always spoke to his fighters -- forward and behind me. Many members of the Republika Srpska Army can testify that he was on the front lines, that he was wounded several times and that he was truly heroically held from 1992 to 1995 when armed conflicts on BiH territory took place, and before that on the territory of the Republika Srpska Krajina, when he was commander of the Knin Corps. And there are no written or oral orders in which General Ratko Mladic orders any war crimes, genocides, violations of international humanitarian law, etc. To wash your conscience off that potential denunciant and snitch, you reached for a forger. The counterfeit is called Ratko Mladic's file, which was allegedly owned by the BIA and the Action Team. How's Ratko Young on that file? One daily paper, I'm not going to say, at the end of December of last year he published a piece of that file and by that file Ratko Mladic is a paranoid, coward, a man who humiliates his associates, his former war buddies, a man who enjoys material wealth, hedonists, materialists, etc. So, quite the opposite of that Ratko Mladic, who the whole of Republika Srpska knows. You didn't think of it first, Mr. Minister, to wash your conscience with the denuant. This colleague of yours, the German commander of Serbia, came to think of it before you. He was washing the Serb's conscience that would betray Draža Mihailovic in the following way, this is an explanation of why Dragju Mihajlovic should be caught. He says, "In the dulling of a debauchery life, this ridiculous boaster has cast the earth into indescribable misery and misery. As an English mercenary, he did nothing but help destroy the highest national goods (imaginable, the German takes care of the highest national good Serbs) that have always been high and sacred to the people (imaginate what a pathetic style). That is why he who brings in the living or dead Draž Mihailovic will not only receive the promised prize, but will spare his country the whip of an inhuman blood terror," German Serbian Commander General Paul Baden signed. Mr. Minister, you're not a historian, neither am I, but you're a written man, you're an intellectual, think about which side you're on -- on the side of democracy, authentic European anti-fascist fluids, or on the other side. You are helping the EU by facilitating the budget of the Republic of Serbia by 250m to 300m euros that this country could collect from customs. You unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement, although the EU does not think of doing so and it is not known when the process of ratification of the SAA and this transitional trade agreement will begin, and about when it will be applied, this may seem a very distant future. You make the budget easier for 250m euros, you make bigger taxes to Serbian citizens by increasing excise duties on cigarettes, beer and gasoline, but on the other hand, you are very generous, promising some secret rewards of a million or 250,000 euros, and you do not know from which budget or parabuges funds. So it would be good, Mr. Minister, to respond to both the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia -- are you thinking about citizens' interests or do you think that you are still leading them to a bank robbery policy? Because this is a clean robbery. If you are reducing the budget by 250m euros, making it directly difficult for citizens of Serbia to have an economic position, and on the other hand, you are ready to give the denuncents a total of 1,250,000 euros, then I really don't know what this is about. Since you are the DS minister, I am taking the opportunity to ask one parliamentary question again, which again has to do with the budget. It is a public secret that the DS, I am running out of time, Mrs Comic, ends in a minute, in the May 11th election campaign, and on the day of the May 11th election, especially in Vojvodina, has massively shared those packages. The Wolf Jeremic here boasted, when we discussed the government's trust, his only argument was - well, you can criticize us now, but we won, we have a stable majority and it will be as we say. That's when we told you -- yes, you won, but by dividing the packets, by directly corrupting the electoral body. And that's when I asked the question -- from which budget or para budget funds did you buy those packages from? Did the ministers in their pockets fill those packages, which I doubt, or did you take state money and implement for state money, in a completely unconstitutional and illegal way, the DS election campaign. Since I have not received an answer to this parliamentary question to this day, I am taking this opportunity, Mr. Minister, to ask you a question again, and I would really appreciate it if you would answer that question for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12493	The word has an MP, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12494	I feel, as a citizen of Serbia, the need to point to a violation of this home's dignity, where just presented historical parallels are being made, with a claim to identity and some equivalentness. What is General Mladic's personality, I really don't know, I haven't been too interested in revealing it, but his military, political work in the given historical circumstances and moment is in no way comparable to the historical work and mission of General Dragoljub Mihailovic. To remind you that the fearless First World War hero, as a young lieutenant, then a high military attaché, an intelligence officer who has served in military diplomacy to his country, who in 41 years does not accept capitulation and the Straight Mountain at that time makes the only place available in fascistally occupied Europe, explicitly opposing fascism, in fact its entire military performance sums up in the idea of national enthusiasm. It is this kind of Western military-political orientation of Serbia's modern tradition that opposes the overall military-political action of the mentioned General Mladic, and I think that such a kind of parallel is not only unsustainable but also offensive to national history, whose dignity we must safeguard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12495	The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Your request for a replica is the discretionary right of the chairman. When it's done, you'll get your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12496	I'm advertising an article. 225 and 226, and I'm looking for an answer to the question. Given that an APB is a prominent and prominent prize for one who gives information on Ratko Mladic 1m euros and for Goran Hadzic, I am interested, i.e. we are obliged to respond to the citizens of Serbia, since we have not seen these funds in the budget, that we answer the relevant ministries -- from which means do they think they pay it off, or is it some other person's funds that would then give us answers to many other questions? So, in what budget, which funds and who pays those funds to those Serbian citizens who define that this is how they earn, although I don't think in Serbia they'll find anyone who wants to take it?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12497	The word has Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12498	The Honorable Presidency, honourable Members of the People, I am informed that the People's Parliament of the People's Republic of Radeta has already asked that question in writing and the Government has given the answer to the MP in writing, at least I know it's written, so there are no secrets, it's responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12499	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who is entitled to replication on the basis of Article 101, misreading.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's clear to me, I accept that, and I never questioned that fact at all, that he was then a colonel, and later General Draža Mihailovic was the leader of the first anti-fascist movement in Europe. Mr. Milenich, you don't need to honor us. You are in a coalition with a party that disproves this fact and has voted against the law on the equalisation of partisans and unequivocals. You discuss with them, not with the MPs of the SRS. There's something else. In my presentation, the accent, first of all, was not compared to the generals of World War II with General Ratko Mladic. Of course there are many similarities in patriotism, courage, fidelity, and given word. I compared, first of all, something else -- the style of the German fascist occupation with the style of this government's behavior. Is there any difference in how you behave? I don't see that there's any difference. The Germans offered 100,000 Reichs marks in gold to whoever brought them, though you don't say alive or dead, and you probably don't rule out that possibility either, Draž Mihailovic. They also offered not only a prize. It's no small thing to rat on someone, even if he's not a political leader. It's just that the human conscience doesn't allow it. No matter how immoral a man may be, no matter how severe he may be in immorality, there is a spirit in him that tells him it's not good. The Germans had to wash off the conscience of that potential denucent, by making Draž Mihailovic quite the opposite of what you showed him. Imagine, a man lives in the woods. His colleagues claimed as they now claim Ratko Mladic to have lived completely modestly, that he may have eaten a can of sardines and onions on a day. Imagine, living defiled in the forest on the flat mountain or where it was. Dummy, he says, from a debauchery life. English Mercenary, etc. The same way you are now showing Ratko Mladic. Republika Srpska Army fighters know this Ratko Mladic better than you do and than I know him. The hero, in the front row, always ordered that the law be respected, humanely treated by prisoners of war, civilians, etc. Find any order whether Ratko Mladic, whether Radovan Karadzic orders whether Vojislav Seselj, after all, kills, slaughter, burn, robbery, banishment, etc. It's not there. There's something else, Mr. Milenich. I'm finishing up, Mrs. Comic, in half a minute. The other day, the Czech diplomat, Karl Schwarzenberg, in a desire to appear as a great friend of Serbia, submitted daily newspapers, if you read, probably in your eyes, says it is necessary to facilitate Serbia's EU accession. He says, "Catching war criminal Ratko Mladic shouldn't take so much to power up." So, what presummation of innocence? He is for the EU a war criminal and a point. But it's also for you, which is the biggest problem, a war criminal. (President: Time. ) Mr. Milenić, I conclude, first of all, agree with your coalition partners whether Draža Mihailovic is a traitor or a patriot and think a little bit about what parallels were between the then German commander of Serbia and this current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12501	The word has a folk Saša Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12502	The Honorable Madam Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, without any desire to take this discussion to the side of the work atmosphere, I find it simply inadmissible that this clarification that makes matters worse is tolerated as an act of acceptable behaviour in the Assembly. You claim that the point is that you are potential equality on the other side, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the fascist occupationist of World War II. I don't know how that kind of comparison can be tolerated without any sanctions, and especially in the context of that recently potent appeal for the abuse of freedom of the press in public calls on the lynch of carefully selected individuals. I am fully aware that this belongs to one color, such a quasi-free press, and this kind of nothing of responsible comparisons and conclusions. It is precisely the power of democracy and democratic procedure in parliament that is not in the tolerance of everything allowed and disallowed to gain efficiency, but in the strict definition of walls and criteria under which the representative body of Serbian citizens should not and cannot fall in value positions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12503	National MP, you did not list a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured, which you are obliged to do so that I could give you an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12504	Obviously, the dignity of this home has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12505	People's MP, it's about quoting a member of the Rules of Procedure who's been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12506	You can correct me if it's not a member of 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12507	Thank you. People's MP, you've been given the word to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and my insistence on being in a stenogram is because of my duty to give you an explanation. The way you reacted that a member of 104 was injured would mean a warning of attitudes that other MPs have when they speak here about persons such as Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic. For the government of the Republic of Serbia, for the state of Serbia, the two are persons on the run from justice and justice. Everything else anyone else wants to talk about is on their conscience, on their knowledge and on the style of someone who speaks. Our state has obligations to co-operate with The Hague tribunal and these obligations include the fulfillment of persons on the run from court and justice or extradition or voluntary surrender. The way you used the Rules of Procedure, both you and your colleagues, is on the verge of using and misusing the Rules of Procedure and in both cases you were without warning that you were in any way violating the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12508	Mrs. Komic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. On December 12th, I addressed the assembly pay phone, calling on these members, a request from the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Interior to answer me on whose order the gendarmes broke into Mr. Ljubinko Zlatic's house in Arangelovac, and I received an answer that this was done in continuing to work on the search for Hague indictee Ratko Mladic. "The members of the MUP are, by way of order of an investigative judge of the Council for War Crimes of the District Court in Belgrade, pay attention to this Mr Krasic, which was brought in accordance with Article 225. Code of Criminal Procedure, conducted a search of Ljubinko Zlatic's house in Kosovo Street 21, in Arangelovac, on 12.12.2008. "What did Mr. Ljubinko Zlatic sin, who is proud to be the schoolmate and friend of the famous general, the hero Ratko Mladic? To what member of the law and who is calling for the entry of innocent people and innocent people, Serbian patriots into houses? Do you, Mr. Milenich, justify it? The fact that you don't know anything about General Mladić and you're not interested, that's your problem, you know, I'd say the defect of consciousness and national identity, belonging to the people, freedom, the desire for some justice that will certainly be achieved when Vojislav Seselj enters this door, as a moral winner and a true winner of that quasi-sud, who has been chasing General Mladic all these years. As I am not satisfied with this answer, and I ask for a more detailed answer to the question asked, and I ask it again, not because of Mr Zlatic, after all, every Serbian patriot wants to be full of heart and truly the brightest cheek to be the pillow of General Mladic, and to guard him as God protects him and anyone whom that anti-Serbian court, who has killed already 14 Serbs, among them and former Serbian President SRJ, wants to protect him and defend him. If you don't have a proper relationship as a Serb, a Sumadinian, a Kragujevcan, I can't help you, Mr. Milenic. But don't give us the historical lessons, because what General Draža Mihailovic did and we who are the descendants of those who were apart with General Mihailovic are proud of it, like everyone else who only listened about it or generations of young people who sing songs about them today. After all, the SRS anthem is "Prepared, ready, Chetniks", due to the fact that it is an invitation to the freedom of the Serbian people and to our pride, what the Chetniks of World War II have done. And as children are called in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, you cannot know that, in the last country wars. They were all called Chetniks, and the children of Partisans and Chetniks, and they were proud of it because, in particular, tens of thousands of soldiers under the command of the famous General Ratko Mladic... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... in Republika Srpska fought for our country's freedom. After all, if you weren't as diabolical and a cynic as you are, as you called Dr. Seselj the other day a Hague scriboman and if you had read one of his books, you would have known much more about freedom and the struggle for the freedom of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12509	People's MPs, I warn you of the respect of Article 104, that's what I'm saying to other MPs. I warn you because you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to keep in mind in your presentation that we are all obliged to comply with the provisions in our dealings with each other during the presentation. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12510	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, Mrs. Comic, if you'll allow me to correct you. In my previous two presentations, I did not call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. First I picked up the amendment, and then I answered on the basis of a line of rights. So, at no point did I say we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think it's your finding that I've abused the Rules of Procedure. But, come on, Mr. Milenic, let's put Ratko Mladic and Draž Mihailovic aside. They both went into history, so let history judge their deeds. As far as we're concerned from the SRS, heroes are both. But I'm asking you something else. From which fund, from which budget positions will this million and 250 thousand euros be paid, if you ever get in a position to pay them? So, how is it possible, Mr. Milenic, that in one state that should be democratic and legal, a reward for two Serbian heads is being issued by a single body that is not a state body at all? The action team, Mr. Milenic, is not a state body. I could still understand if it was the M.O.P. or the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, or some other state body, but an action team? Tomorrow, the home council will announce awards for Ratko Mladic, the association of lovers of goldfish, etc. Don't throw one side of the country a mockery. What action team, why would he have the right to call anything? What position do you think you'll pay that million and 250 thousand euros from? That's exactly what I'm asking you: where do you think you're going to pay for that money? You're telling the people to tighten the belt. You, Mr. Milenic, days ahead of the presidency building are being striked by these poor women you've driven out of work from the Belgrade Robing Houses. Every day the MPs of the SRS receive the people your government and your party are sick of, from "Synthelon" to "Belgrade" RK every day. You won't see them in the Serbian government, you're bored. A few of those women got pneumonia because they had to sleep under tents 24 hours a night, so that someone would see them. You of those blue flags and yellow stars don't see the world around you. That's what this is about. The easiest thing to do right now is to be a retroactive patriot. You know, when it comes to Draža Mihailovic, he's a hero, when it comes to Ratko Mladic, he's a black devil. Be a patriot and retroactive and present, but don't be a patriot at all, as far as I'm concerned, I don't care. I ask you that too - where will you pay a million and 250 thousand euros? (President: National MP, please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured. I'm done. Article 104. So that's a question for you too, Mr. Milenić, you come from one expert party, and of course also a question for Mr. Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12511	When I said the use of the Rules of Procedure was on the verge, I said that because every time you received a word on the basis of one of the members of the Rules of Procedure, I did not say that you sought a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and that you used exposure on the edge of the provisions, that is a fact, and I said that in an explanation to MP Sasa Milenic, since it was obviously left unclear, Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic are persons on the run from court and justice. The state of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the obligation to extradite, arrest or voluntarily hand over the two remaining persons on the list of war crimes suspects and accused on the territory of BiH and the Republic of Croatia. Anything else involves calling for a violation of the law, which is also a commitment that the Republic of Serbia has made. Everything else implies calling for disrespect of the commitments the Republic of Serbia has made. National MP Sasa Milenic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I apologize, MP, MP Zoran Krasic wanted to speak before you. Use the right to replicate only if all MPs exercise their right to breach the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, MP. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12512	We MPs are inequitable compared to the chairman, we cannot make warnings. I went out and called on a member of our 27th Rules of Procedure, and not for what Mr. Martinovic or Mr. Sasa said, but for how you comment. I didn't hear anyone here from this pay phone saying that he was publicly calling for contempt of the law. In his discussion on the amendment, Mr Martinovic only made a parallel, read "search out" from forty years ago and "search out" from 2008, and called the Government of the Republic of Serbia whether in positions against fascism or not, and pointed to the similarity of the texts of these announcements, where in a negative context faces are shown in a negative context, in order to wash away the fate of one who would be denudent. Mr. Martinovic only asked the question of which funds you will pay for it. I haven't seen what's wrong with that, but in your comment on this replica system, there are some things that are bad, Mrs. Comic. I am taking the opportunity to point out these things to you, to inform these in the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, in addition to the Law on Co-operation with the Hague tribunal, there are other laws and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and there are international standards. I must remind you that when a person delivers himself to The Hague tribunal, he is not delivered to prove his innocence there, but that he who pursues it would prove guilty. In proving that guilt, you have the opportunity to follow this trial of Vojislav Seselj, you could conclude that something bad has been happening to those who are persecuting, that they are constructing some new truth, that they are changing our history, not for the past 10-15 years, but for the past 250 years. History is changing. Are rights respected, is there a fair trial there? There's no fair trial, we all know that. As far as Vojislav Seselj is concerned, everyone knows, he is a political prisoner because in 2001 the government that said "he bothers us" and on February 17, 2003, it was said: "Take him and do not return him". It's the same story with Ratko Mladic. Mr Milosavljevic, you are consulting with Boris Tadic and your people, so take off the Hague tribunal site another amended indictment against Radovan Karadzic, and you will see a new invention: four forms of a joint criminal enterprise, where you are accused. And then you should represent Serbia in front of the International Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12513	Mr. Sasa Milenić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12514	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I am only insisting, using, without any excesses, business law, on the dignity of the representative body of citizens - the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and each MP, of course and their own. Mr. Martinovic, you make it easy to make the most difficult disqualifications about the individuals you barely know about, and so on my smallness. If you only read the official biography, which you can find on the site, you'd see why the charge of lack of patriotism is on my line, according to all the standards of civilised modern societies, shame and shame on those who accuse. You don't even know the attitudes I advocate, but it doesn't bother you to spit and stick a label on a man. If it is about patriotism, as a matter of value, a word, which this congregation must also care about, it is worth mentioning that at this moment and this state of affecting national interests, especially poverty and insufficient development, it is a patriot who manages the tasks on which he gets, and pays taxes to the state, and one who still manages to hire and pay contributions, it is a folk hero in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12515	Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12516	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I would like that, using the possibility from the Rules of Procedure, and referring to the members of 225 and 226, to refer one question to the Government, since it has been imposed in these replicas and exhibitions that preceded your arrival, and above all to the Prime Minister, to ask him whether the Action Team for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal has the authority to call a monetary reward for Hague indictees? We know the MUP can do it, we know the prosecution can do it, but how does the Action Team get that kind of authority? What will the government do if it turns out that the Action Team did not have the authority to do such a thing? On the side of these questions that have already been asked, and regarding it, where, if, God forbid, will Ratko Mladic be caught, and I believe you will not, pay for those funds? We will find out, I believe, who betrayed Radovan Karadzic and whom the Americans gave those promised $5 million for something like that. It's already being discussed in Serbia, but time will show, history is there to answer all possible questions. You here in the Assembly don't mind when someone for the Hague indictees in advance, and in both the public and the media, says "war criminal". No one's responding, no one but the SRS. Here, Mr. Krasic explained it nicely to you, and we should all know that, because we are a legislative body, that someone's fault has yet to be proved. When he goes, possibly, to The Hague, and we say "war criminal," where our patriotism is looked at, that's where our patriotism should be looked at, first of all. There is a man here in the National Assembly who for a Hague indictee, and a political prisoner, in fact, Vojislav Seselj even says that he has done him a great deal of harm, that he cannot normally judge, that he is distraught, sending again a message to the prosecution or to all those who do not think well of Vojislav Seselj. It is the president of this newly created party "take everything that life gives you", the co-chair, one of them, but they both say "little Wolf" and "faithful Tom". What patriotism is today in Serbia is also these laws that are on the agenda. So how much we're going to damage the citizens of Serbia or how much we're going to help them and how much we're going to help our country in the first place. (President: Time. ) Our only goal at this point, when we prove ourselves as patriots, is to provide people with the opportunity to work, live off their work and regain self - respect both for ourselves and for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12517	Mr. Martinovic, you gave up? You're not. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12518	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I haven't given up, but I won't answer for the word anymore, I don't think there's any need anymore. Serbian citizens saw everything and heard everything. I hope they have a better power of judgment than individual MPs. Mr. Milenic, I really don't know the details of your political, professional biography. Perhaps you have also entrusted Serbia with some colossal works. If so, thank you. I may not be as gifted with a philosophical mind as you are, but I have some healthy, ordinary human mind. DOS has been in various variants and in various aggregate states in power since 2000. One phrase that you are repeating unfeelingly, it is about the famous 10 years of Milosevic's horror. Here, you are now in power a little longer than the late Slobodan Milosevic. If reality is really as great as you represent it, if you really are such an economic patriot, if you really are a folk hero, in an economic sense, you, your party or a group of citizens, what is it, and your ruling coalition, then I don't know where I'm from where many dissatisfied workers in Serbia, from where women strike in front of the Serbian presidency, from where did war veterans, from where did you threaten the general strike, from every day the SRS Parliament Club is filled with people who have since 2000 reportedly brought prosperity? Either I'm wrong or, Mr. Milenich, you're wrong. Take off in front of the eyes of the blue and yellow flag of the EU, go to the streets of Serbia, into the streets of Belgrade, and you will see, you will conclude for yourself, hopefully, you are a smart man, who among us is wrong. As for the UN tribunal, I don't know if there's any need to waste words. Mrs. Comic is not here, says Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic are hiding from justice. The Hague justice is, in fact, a fundamental injustice. The Hague justice has killed, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, your former President Slobodan Milosevic. The man was not allowed to be properly treated. The Hague "justice" has for six years violated the human rights of Vojislav Seselj, the Hague "justice" has sentenced Milan Martic to 40 years in prison for allegedly committing war crimes, and this same Hague "justice" has released Naser Oric and Ramush Haradinaj. Mr. Milenic, now you decide whether you are for justice or for injustice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12519	Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of the Honorable Ministers, I support the amendments of Zlata Djeric and Mr Martinovic on everything they have said. I've called to take advantage of your presence to ask you a few questions and point to certain problems that exist with individual manufacturers. Believe me, the application of the SAA will be extremely painful for Serbian citizens, especially individual producers. A few days ago, I was talking about how much trouble there was in front of individual producers down the Morava, from Triestenik to Kruševec, when it comes to the production of paprika, an extremely bad year that was. Now I'm going to tell you how many problems individual producers have in the hill-mounted areas, and above all the Kopalnik Mountains, Rudna, Goča where I come from, and of course the Golia Mountains. It's, first of all, dairy production, mostly cheese. More citizens from that area came to me, and I also personally visited those parts of Duga Poljana, towards Sjenica, the village of Stavalj, Brnjica, Stup and other places. In these villages of Serbia live extremely old people, who use the last atoms of power to ensure their existence through the production of cheese. When you get into those milkers, I hope you know what a milkman is, one extremely devastating thing is that thousands of pounds of cheese are currently on the lager, that people at minus 20, minus 30, as much as in those areas, are simply extremely difficult to maintain that cheese so it doesn't break down, and that's their only existence. Of course, the only way out for them is to show up a shopkeeper, a buyer, who comes in with trucks or as popular as they say, takes that cheese to the beginning and after six months to a year comes or doesn't come. Often frauds occur and never come back to those snakes where cheese stands, nor do these people get their money. It's a big problem. I hope you'll do something to help these people. I think the state should protect those people who live in an extremely difficult position. There's a lot of young people out there, and those young people who come back, and that's very controversial, they face the same difficulties. Believe it's extremely painful, devastating, that besides a country that can help these people there are smugglers who often cheat on these people. People look forward to it when they show up after six months to get new supplies and bring the money they've taken from them. It's something that's unacceptable. We want to go to Europe, and we can't organize to help individual producers. Mr. Minister, don't just be here in Belgrade. Take a walk along those parts of Rudna, Goča, Goli, Outlander, to see how much trouble these people get to this product. They are most often people over 70, although they breathe out and practically at the end of their lifetime, try to provide some products essential to life. We from the NS can be somewhat satisfied and we have done a great deal for these people in these areas by building roads and the ability to make these people easier to get their products to cities eventually. I'm sure we helped in that segment. We cannot be satisfied with the resolution ministers from agriculture and trade who simply don't care absolutely about the people who live in these parts. It is similar with villages in the plainlands. Nevertheless, the availability of markets and large cities is a more favourable situation for these people. Believe me, they all suffer the same torment. Therefore, I would ask you that in the shortest time, given that there is a new season, a new birth year, these people will simply come into the situation to spill milk, because they will no longer have anywhere to put it, because products from this year and last are absolutely not able to place on the market because of all the problems I've said here. I have indeed come out on behalf of these people, who appear and who beg to be appealed to the state from this pay phone through the resolution ministries to help. I think it's your duty to do a tour and see what kind of problems these are. Not only is their existence threatened, but absolutely their purchasing power for anything will be compromised, because their products will not be able to place. Therefore, I would ask you to act as soon as possible and help these people living under extremely difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12521	National MP Branko Ruzic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 24a be added after article 24a. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12522	Dear Presidents, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we believe that, when amending and supplementing the Excise Act, when defining a new structure of excise policy for the period until 2012, we should try to propose a new chapter in the Excise Act in amendments and additions. It is this amendment, i.e. the proposal to follow Article 24. The draft law introduces a new member and a new chapter, in the sense that the accounting and payment of a specific fee for the budget fund is regulated, otherwise, at this time established by the tobacco law. Of course, funds and funds are important, and the collection of these funds, because they are used to implement preventive programmes to prevent diseases associated with the consumption of tobacco products. That so-called. A smoking dinar at the moment is regulated by this law. One of the objectives of the introduction of excise and excise policy is the practical coverage of certain public costs, in this case health. Of course, in this way and thus regulated in its nature this special fee, although destinationed income, is essentially excise and we believe that it is the place in the Excise Act, and that it will practically be done in a faster, simpler and more efficient way to collect these funds. It's not something new, it's not something that's unknown in theory. I will only remind myself that there was a special Republic tax on tobacco processing and alcoholic beverages, which was introduced to provide the missing funds for pension payments. Of course, and by its essence, that tax was actually excise. Here we see one particular parallel. Of course, in our amendment, taking into account the effect I've talked about in the previous amendments that we've submitted, so on the regression effect, we're also proposing different amounts that would be paid to this fund for these purposes, it's about nominal, specific rates. Our proposal goes in the direction that up to the most popular price category of cigarettes, including the most popular category, pays the amount of two dinars per pack, for cigarettes that are up to 50% higher than the most popular price category of four dinars per pack in the cigarette category, and for cigarettes that are over 50% higher than the most popular price category, the payment is at 20 dinars per pack. In this way, much more resources would be collected than so far for these very human purposes, therefore, for the prevention of action against tobacco addiction disease. Also, in this proposal, we have made sure that the collection of these funds goes more on the burden of a relatively stronger economic population, so to those who consume significantly more expensive cigarettes. At this point, that tax is in the amount of one dinar for all kinds of cigarettes. We think this is a much better and more practical solution. Given that the following amendments are also in the set of this proposal, I would take advantage of the opportunity and would no longer appear on the subject of the next amendments, if only briefly I were to say that they are practically a logical trace of this amendment and ensure that this part is realised mainly in a way that suggests picking up within deadlines and in a way that is done with excise duties. Of course we predict and put in the same regime of criminal provisions as excises. We propose that the first harmonisation of the fee by amendment to Article 29 take place in January 2010 and the last amendment, in order for all of this to have its logic, we propose that the date of entry into force of these amendments cease the provision of Article 70. The tobacco law. I suggest that this whole set of laws be adopted, because it really has a human purpose and I think that this way we would achieve much better results in terms of the preventive fight against tobacco addiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12523	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Bajatovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Kasalovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 29a be added after article 29. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, do the proposing representatives want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Republic of Slovenia ADMINAL TACSA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the Law by Members of the People: Lidija Dimitrijevic, Boris Aleksić, Milan Avramović, Jadranko Vuković, Milan Škrbić, Vladan Jeremic, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojić, Sreto Perić, Dusan Mirić, Dušan Marić, Momir Marković, Aleksandar Martinović, Bojan Mladenović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Marina Ragus, Paja Momčiov, Zoran Krasić, Dejan Mirović, Milan Živović, Dragan Živić, Sladan Mijaljić, Mirko Muljević, Srboljubovljan Živanovic, Vjerica Radić, Vjerica Radića Malić, Radića Malović, Radića Žalićićićić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Radić, Žalić, Radić, Radić, Milić, Radić, Slavić, Radić, Slavić. In writing, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic withdrew the amendment to Article 5. It's a bill of law. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mrs Dimitrijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has submitted 30 amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, which has 30 members. Each of our amendments refers to one member of the bill and are all identical content, that is, to our amendments, we have proposed to delete all members of the bill. This has shown our principled position under this bill, and it is that Serbian radicals disagree with the increase of the republican administrative taxis in the conditions of the economic crisis and the difficult social situation of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. My amendment to Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes specifically refers to eradicating the meaning of certain terms used in the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. As I have already said, the SRS is expressing its views on the entire bill and we are proposing to delete all members. When it is already proposed to delete all members, it is unnecessary to leave this first member, explaining the meaning of certain terms. The MPs of the SRS believe that we are here to work in the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not against their interests, and therefore we propose that at this difficult moment, when we are affected by the global economic crisis, the government of the Republic of Serbia should give up the increase in the amount of republican administrative fees. Each responsible government must take care of its country's citizens. How irresponsible our government is to its citizens has shown by the decision to unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement, although it is likely that Europeans do not want us in their Union, that they do not even want Serbia to gain membership candidate status, but rather they need Serbia as a market and a short space at which, at a low cost, they will buy these companies in the process of privatising enterprises in social property. When asked why the Government of the Republic of Serbia decided on the act of unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement, there is no answer. Whether it is too much desire for our rulers to pass on the EU, or other interests, Serbian citizens cannot get an answer from the government. Another major problem with the government is that there is no agreement within it on a single programme to overcome the effects of the global economic crisis, as Economy Minister Mladjan Dinkic and Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic have a very different view of the problem. Prime Minister Cvetkovic said the Serbian government has adopted a framework plan against a crisis that will be revised every month if necessary. It is about the document -- the economic crisis and its impact on Serbia's economy -- the framework programme of measures. The prime minister points out: "The government of Serbia has given principles to combat the economic crisis, and there is continuity within them, i.e. that they are constantly complemented. The measurement program exists, and it's marked as indicative precisely because of this principle of continuity, which means that every month we'll probably have some changes. "On the other hand, Minister Dinkic says the Serbian government will bring in a programme based on agreement with businessmen, trade unions and bankers. Based on these statements, economists have concluded that the Serbian government does not have a concrete plan to deal with the crisis. Conscious of the fact that due to the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement, a reduction in the inflow of revenue in the budget, Finance Minister Mrs Dragutinovic began slowly preparing the public for another unpopular measure, an increase in value added tax. In the finance ministry, they say only at the end of March will they know whether budget rebalancing is necessary, and that VAT increases are something that can come as a measure. This is only at the end of March as if March would be in two years, not just two months. The justification for this announced measure is found in comparison with countries in the region. It is said that VAT in Greece, Romania and Slovakia is 19%, Bulgaria, Hungary, Italy and Slovenia, 20%, in Croatia and Poland. However, it should be noted that VAT rates are lower in some other countries of Europe. In BiH, as in Montenegro, 17%, in Spain 16%, in England 15%. Economic analysts point out that only 30% of tax revenues are collected from direct taxes in developed European countries, while the rest comes from taxation of wealth. With us, 70% of tax revenues are achieved by direct taxation of consumption, and this indicates that the poorer we have the higher tax burden. By increasing the tax rate from 2.5%, from 18 to 20.5, a deficit of 47 billion dinars would be covered in the budget, which is otherwise due to the wrong tax bill this year. This measure would result in a price increase of 2.5%, a withdrawal of business from legal flows, i.e. the growth of the grey economy, a decrease in production, a drop in employment, additional pressure on the dinar course. Unfortunately, the greatest pressure since the VAT increase would be given to citizens and the poorest. There's one more thing to point out. Before the state further increases its taxes, it should take care of the adequate collection of the existing VAT because there is no good institutional framework for the control of VAT payments, as there is a lot out of the system. Under the conditions of the global economic crisis, Serbia has been hit by another major problem, the value of the dinars has begun to fall dizzy. This is a problem for both citizens and businessmen. An inflation of about 30% over the past three years, and strengthening the exchange rate by about 10%, there has been a discrepancy between inflation and course movement, and this rapid alignment is something that had to happen. The moment this happened couldn't have been worse. The National Bank of Serbia's interventions reduced foreign exchange reserves by 892.4m euros only in December last year. The higher rate of the euro caused an increase in the prices of products imported by 5% to 15%. However, an increase in prices and domestic products has been caused, as some domestic producers use certain raw materials from imports. The most severe consequence of the economic crisis is the mass layoff of workers. Doctors warned a few years ago that one of the strongest stress was just losing a job and comparing it with a severe illness, even with the loss of a family member. Many times after this speaker, we talked about the layoffs of workers throughout Serbia, about forced collective holidays due to the reduction of production and closure of production plants. I'm just gonna remind you that there were 194 workers left in the woodworking factory "Health" a few months ago in just one day without a job. All I want to do is bring up another amazing piece of information about one other event from another wood mill. It is a Cloting factory, in which in September one employee was paid a profit of 1.93 dinars, or at the rate of 0.021 euros. Another worker who demanded that overtime be paid was fired, explaining that she was allegedly not professional, even though she had been in the business for three decades. The appearance of mobbing is increasing over employees in Serbia. Research has shown that 4/5 employees, due to exposure to mobbing, have mental problems at work. In most cases, people over the age of 50 are complaining, as much as 44%. Mobing is the most represented in the private sector, even in about 68% of reported cases. Aroundly, women and men are equally threatened, more specifically women, in 56% of cases. Among those at risk is the highest number of high school employees, 68%, and 28% with college graduates. Mobing is mostly used as a pressure method to make employees I left the company. In contrast, in Serbia we have a very strange unnatural phenomenon, public business directors receive astronomical salaries. On the initiative of the SRS MPs here in the National Assembly, the Serbian government has so loudly announced that the directors of public enterprises will be reduced. However, the rules on public enterprises have not yet been completed, and the government has not specified when the end of this Regulation could occur. The idea of reducing the director's salary was preceded by a decision to reduce compensation for board members and supervisory boards, which were also abnormal. The salaries of managers in public enterprises range up to 700,000 dinars, but also more. We've talked a lot about this pay phone, so I'm not gonna say it again. The government's proposal is to pay the manager in all public enterprises to the level of prime minister, which is about 120,000 dinars. When this is gonna happen, you still don't know. To conclude, in conditions where Serbia faces problems of the global economic crisis, when the government does not have a single programme to overcome the effects of the economic crisis, when the finance minister announces an increase in VAT rates by 2.5%, when the value of the national currency falls, when employees remain unemployed daily, when the purchases are daily, the purchases of medicines, fixed telephony prices, food products, technical goods, when the directors of public enterprises have no salaries, even managers in EU countries, when the government makes a decision to unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement - Serbian Radicals suggest that the government of the Republic of Serbia give up the burden on its people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12525	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12526	I must draw attention to the public, to all those who address the state authorities and on the basis of these requirements, solutions received, beliefs issued, etc., they become taxpayers, and that the government decided in 2009 to significantly increase the amount of these fees. Of course, they took advantage of the opportunity to give one regulation to the offices and those diplomatic-consular fees, which were once in the jurisdiction of federal authorities. It's in table D of this bill. In fact, it's a whole new law, everything's changed practically, but through the form of changes and additions, the whole, complete law is changing. Table A contains taxes paid to state authorities in the Republic of Serbia, and there has been a real increase. So, the reason is that the regulation of the Republic of Serbia also regulates the diplomatic and consular tax and the second reason is that the appointment by tariff numbers is in line with the provisions of law, material nature and procedural nature, which have led to a change in the name of the act or the name of the administrative fee itself for which it is paid. Now I'm only going to take one example to indicate how much that increase is. If these changes are compared to the current text, there may be confusion, as there are differences in the names themselves. I tried to find something that could be comparable. I'll take, for example, a new tariff number, number 6, where it's said, "To appeal to the organ, if this law is not otherwise prescribed, the tax is 300 dinars." Something similar is in the existing law: "To appeal against the solutions made by the authority, if this law is not otherwise prescribed, 170 dinars". This is comparable after appointment, regardless of the different tariff codes, but refers to the same obligation to be paid. So, from 170 to 300 dinars, and if it were to go deep, then it would also be seen in the belief, and in the confirmation, both in the application and in the request, etc., that there is a significant increase. It's a 10 increase somewhere, about 20%, and there's a couple hundred percent increase somewhere. We think that you can't count on us to support something like this, a team before this was changed in 2008, and in 2007 and 2006, a alignment was made. I guess that for the last three years, the adjustment of the amount of taxis was for the percentage of inflation, probably for the rise in prices to a little bit, probably followed. But if you're 100% now, inflation isn't 100%. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: It's obvious.) Occupied? I wouldn't say it's too obvious, but it's a need to provide funds so strong, so now you've brought it down to physical and legal persons who address state authorities. I'm not going to object to that part where the stock market settlement fees are determined, the second part, etc., which is about legal persons who, in order to do some work, have to have a pretty big founding capital and where there's probably some justification for it, to be far greater. But with these most common communications between citizens and the state authority, I think you've had to make sure that this increase shouldn't be so much. If you said that the increase was about 9%, how much inflation was in 2008, then it could be a little bit bearable. Now I have to try to get you, not from the government, because I have no success in persuasion, but to inform the citizens what it's practically about. You know, it doesn't really matter if you have 100 dinars in your account on January 1st of the year and if you have 31. 12, as it does not matter whether those 100 dinars will have the same value at the beginning of the year on 31 December of that year. If you have 100 dinars on savings at a bank, then the bank guarantees you some interest. This interest should cover lost value. It is said that if the interest rate is higher than 4% on an annual basis, in stable conditions, it is considered that the one who gave the money on savings is the one who earned it. So these are some relatively acceptable conditions, where inflation probably doesn't go more than 2% on an annual basis. Under the conditions when you have inflation drawn up to 9% like this, then you ask the question of how much that interest rate should be during the year to preserve the value of those 100 dinars at the beginning of the year. I'm only saying this to make it clear that everything has its own value and everything has its own price. It has value and has its price. If compared to December 31st, 2008, when the tax was 170 dinars, as of February 1, when this law comes into force, means only by a month, it increases almost 100%, from 170 to 300 dinars, then the question is, is the value lost in money so much that it should be raised so much? Of course, when it comes to those requirements when citizens most often address the authorities of administrations and state authorities, in order to get some confidence or some solution first, to prove some fact of their right to some other authority, then this question must be asked - is it acceptable in these conditions, if energy prices go, if the cost of life rises, if real profits fall, if these administrative fees increase in this way. Of course, we're all going to have to turn to a state authority over the year and pay some kind of republican administrative tax. If nothing else, at least when we register a passenger vehicle. If we are to change passports during 2009, someone needs to take out a new ID card, then calculate how much you will only give on those beliefs. Zero, for a change. I'm sorry if I was wrong. We're all talking, and we're gonna have to pay. I don't think that's acceptable. I know you've made some changes to the names of your obligations. You probably threw something out there, but who's gonna follow, there's 300 and some tariff numbers. I've tried several examples to see that there's this big difference. If this is true what you said, I have no reason not to doubt that this replacement is not going to be some new burden, then that's good. We are generally against increasing the Republic's administrative fees.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12527	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12528	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. I am submitting the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the amendment to the Amendments and Supplements Act on Republic Administrative Taxes, with a proposal to delete Article 4. The proposer says the requirements and submissions that taxpayers submit to the DKP instead of paying the bank's fees are proposed to be paid to the DKP's foreign account, which is not disputed, but what is disputed is the increase in taxes. That's why we suggest that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12529	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12530	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you know that our SRS is one of the most homogeneous and well-organised political parties in Serbia, and unfortunately I can't because of the obligations I have on my forest district board to attend the afternoon session. But in any case, this time will be enough for me to look back on this argument made by fellow SRS MPs and to say our general position that we disagree with the increase in administrative fees due to the fact that they neither follow our inflationary flows nor the difficult situation in which Serbian citizens are. When we mentioned earlier, you were right, Mr. Ilic, as you suggested, as well as a distinguished colleague, about the replacement and the zero dinars you said. But a few days ago, one of the employees here in the Assembly, and I don't know if you know it, and I think you know that these people's salaries are extremely low. It's those who work at work or in the kitchen, or as waiters, or barmaids by buffets, to serve us and to be at our service from morning till nightfall, and when we work at night, one of those ladies complained that she had to prepare several thousand dinars for her four-member family, because when she took her first passport and her underage children and for herself and her husband had to take out her citizenship confidence, which is 500 dinars times four, so a copy of the birth certificate, and everything she needed to prepare to get one such document. So, we don't think this has been a good time. It is the original revenue of the budget, to increase administrative fees, as we disagree with all these other accompanying laws, in order to implement the projected budget in 2009. We've made a lot of arguments, and citizens are aware that we're right, because they see it in their pockets and in their receipts, especially because the Republic Bureau of Statistics also shows a rise in cost of life or price for a little bit, however you will, does not take those real, real parameters. Is it, Mr Milosavljevic, on some indicative and allegedly optimal needs for an average Serbian family, but when we get these reviews and newsletters from month to month, and you look at that that isn't enough to feed someone, that you don't include the prices of municipal services that are increased and which are biggest, these overhead costs are the highest cost of every household with food, then see what happens to a citizen, and especially to a pensioner who lives hard or a farmer, however you want me not to talk about unemployed, they have zero dinars and social aid almost nothing. A moment ago, Mr Krasic said what this burden on the citizens' budget was and why we wrote that each of these members was deleted. We simply disagree that for one pair, let alone for a dinar or for dozens of dinars to increase administrative fees, I must point out, you may not know this information, it is frapantic in any case, that registration of the vehicle is the most expensive in Kragujevac, so you will see Kragujevčan driving cars with strawberry, royal, chacan, Belgrade plates, because these are never enough. Is that right, Mr. Vukkovic, although you're not, I'm not amnesting you out of responsibility, you're part of that coalition, but what I do to you, Boris Tadic was coming to the campaign to name water on Stevanovic's guidebook, which is why the DS went the way it did, and we now have a situation where in a city where there's really no real hard to live in, it's all been a big lie, not tens of thousands of jobs, not a plant of 300,000 cars, nor the accompanying production of another, absolutely nothing, but just testing for 2,400 workers, without any guarantee that Fiat will invest these 200 million euros. Wherever you go and whatever you ask people, and as far as their home budget is concerned, believe me, it's never been a worse situation. When people are, it doesn't matter at all, it's just an additional influence and an additional fear that's being heightened, people are following the press, watching television, talking about this global world crisis, but once everything had to collapse like a map tower. We criticised, you remember that, Mr. Milosavljevic, you were then a minister in that first government after October 5th, when there was a drastic increase in the amount of republican administrative fees, at the time that Vladan Batic was minister of justice, and then there was talk of how it would improve the position of judicial employees, and it turned out that you are now asking the court scribe, the clerk, the associate of one of the judges, someone who wasn't elected to some judicial office, or prosecutorial or judicial office, and they have no excessively large salaries, optimal for this responsible work that they do, and what about their colleagues. They're still dissatisfied, as they are dissatisfied in education, in health care, because this burden of poverty must somehow be deployed, must be the country, which is in a difficult economic crisis because you haven't heard that we shouldn't sell out because of our resources, that you don't allow robbery privatisation, that's the greatest treasure we have, that you don't glean so much money that you get, so you set up a NIP, you sell one resource that we don't have anymore. Then what are you going to do? We told you, the time will come, and the situation will come, remember when Dinkic boasted when he was elected in 2004 as finance minister, 19 billion have surpluses in the budget. We warned you and said -- it's gonna be a tough time, because once you sell something, the second time it's gone, it's over for generations to come. What serious, normal states and governments in the world are doing? They spend that money, they fold for years, they're spent by the directors of public enterprises. Last night, I looked at a little bit, ahead of the trial footage and yesterday's brilliant performance of Dr. Seselj, and it lasted until late hours, but before that, on one television, which has a frequency that you can all watch, I watched three weeks. This one says, "That's what happened, there's nothing from Krisht, there's a mountain shaking, there's a mouse born." It's not like that. If he hadn't started the whole story of spending money from taxpayers' budgets, theft and robbery in public enterprises, Mr. Todorovic, or the SRS, you wouldn't have taken the kind of measures you were forced to do. This is the control role of this highest legislative body. This should not have been done in this way, because if you had looked at how much savings were possible in the 2009 budget, it was Mrs Dragutinovic herself, she said - it is now de facto, there are agencies that are the product of earlier laws and ways to wash money in many of them, to employ politically similar DS and G17, if you hadn't done all this, and so you could make numerous savings in the budget and you wouldn't have to fill the budget in this way. We can't accept that because we think that citizens and how they're saddened by the entire economic policy of the government, that everything is expensive, it's expensive and electricity, the gas is expensive, the communals are too expensive, the food is never more expensive. We talked about it a few days ago, Mr. Milosavljevic, when Minister Dulic was there yesterday and yesterday, that it is not normal to have so much cheap raw materials, fruit and vegetables, except for certain items on our domestic market, that the peasant cannot provide and the state does not help him with the placement of his goods, and on the other hand, when you enter the store, you should buy food, what children and their parents must live on, you see that everything is too expensive. Isn't it a shame and a shame what counterpart Srdjan Spasojevic was talking about? The whole Ivanic end of your problem is that you're going to lose the kamack, the cheese, all the dairy products, because people don't have, they're cut off. To ask them there now from Vukaq, Katic, Kusic or all those villages, how to get to the first market, do you know how long it takes them. They will spend more because there is no organized ransom, and these are the best quality products, of the highest quality milk, the best raw materials. I've been visiting these people. They say we're not worth it, we'd better throw it away or stand it down. If a better state were to organize itself, if it were to be strategically defined, and we'll see, I think it's just a story and it's only to represent the EU that you intend to do this national strategy, so we'll have this set of accompanying laws, if we had that kind of income from agriculture, we wouldn't have to raise administrative fees. We'd be much better off and the people would live better, and we wouldn't be afraid of people having to feed their children from today until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12531	We'll continue our work at 15.00 hours. We agreed that today, because of the ice and the bad conditions of transport, we will not extend the work, so you can plan after 1800 hours that we are free.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work in the afternoon session by discussing details and amendments to Article 8 submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12533	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the amendment submitted by the MP of the SRS, Mr Petar Jojic, to Article 8. The bill, which reads: "Article 8 of this administrative tax law is deleted. "The Serbian Radical Party has submitted 30 amendments to the proposed law, and the SRS' view is that all proposed members of the law should be deleted. The Serbian Radical Party considers it unacceptable to increase the Republic's administrative fees under the conditions of the global economic crisis and the difficult social situation of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Radical Party proposes to its amendments to the government of the Republic of Serbia to give up the bill, i.e. an increase in administrative fees. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes shall bring into line the subject-matter of a tax liability with files and actions, which are in the jurisdiction of the authorities for which the work is paid by the Republic's administrative tax. This is about files and actions that were in the jurisdiction of the SCG State Community, for which taxes are paid under the Federal Administrative Tax Act. The amount of these taxis hasn't been changed since 2001, and otherwise they should have been adjusted every year. A change in the level of the tax liability is now proposed, which in terms of economic crisis and social misery will be an expense that will burden both the economy, agriculture and all citizens of Serbia. In the 2009 budget revenue structure, 640 billion dinars will be provided from excises, taxes and taxis, and in the project expenditure structure the most funds, 233.7 billion dinars are planned for transfers to mandatory social insurance organisations, and for subsidies of only 40.9 billion dinars. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I must stress that there is a link between the Budget Law and the proposed laws. This law, like the other set of laws that are in the procedure, is not following budget laws, but material legal regulations. The government of the Republic of Serbia made a mistake in order to propose legislation. The first was to propose this set of laws, which are now in the procedure and to be adopted by the National Assembly and then proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly a draft bill on the budget, i.e. the fiscal policy law of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the draft budget law arrived at the National Assembly with a late 40-day delay, showing the government of the Republic of Serbia irresponsibility, dissent and incompetence. Because of the illogical and unacceptable decision, the Serbian government unilaterally applied the Transition Trade Agreement, thus leaving no significant income, and therefore had to find a way out of these revenues. Thus, by increasing taxes, excise duties and taxis, the government of the Republic of Serbia will additionally burden the population of Serbia, all in its intention to finance an unwarranted decision on the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement with the EU. Serbian citizens will pay VAT by 2.5% because of the unilateral implementation of the Transition Agreement, according to announcements from the ruling coalition. The only way out and solution for Serbian citizens is by giving up Serbia's government on the unilateral application of the harmful Transition Agreement, because in the current conditions of the economic crisis and social misery, it represents both for the economy and for agriculture, and for all citizens of Serbia the severe economic and financial blow. Since Mr Milosavljevic is with us, Mr. Milosavljevic, I would also like to say something about the gatherings that are tied up and which are daily. Serbian citizens are under pressure from the crowd and demand a reply from the minister. In Serbia, 15 per cent to 16 per cent of food prices have been recorded, one of the largest in Europe. Serbia is in second place in Europe, after Bulgaria. Why do Serbian citizens eat the most expensive food in the region? Why are there the most trade margins and why are they out of control? Why, for example, is the trade margin for a June but 48%? This year's harvest wave is only now starting to take its toll. Citizens are in suspense and afraid of black forecasts, restrictions and gatherings. Foods in Serbia for the last four years, since this and the previous government, have accumulated between 60% and 90%. The bread margin is 24.3%, on milk 17.3%, and on meat, as I have already said, up to 48%. In addition to the current wave of gatherings, new gatherings are announced. As of January, the price of heating will be 36% higher, and since February 1st it will be more expensive for city transport. The hot water bill went up 40%, and before New Year's, parking in Belgrade was up 9.5%. These are just some gatherings that will further reduce the domestic budget of citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. Prices are going up, and the consumer basket is getting empty. Citizens with justification fear and await the reply of the minister in charge, and this is the presence of Mr Milosavljevic. Finally, the government of the Republic of Serbia has done another bad thing with the proposal for this law on administrative fees when it comes to financial and economic interest and the social status of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12534	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto and Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, if you don't want to be angry, I'd like to ask you a question - when will the government send to Peru, head of security from the government as a representative? Indeed, according to these seven draft laws, it seems to me that 80% of the government members have infiltrated through this assembly and it is not a problem that they are going through, it is good that they come to the National Assembly nominally, and in reality we will actually comment on some of the questions that Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic answered last night, to conclude that the real and real prime minister is someone else. So, when will Pera, head of security of the government of the Republic of Serbia, come to this assembly? This is a bit of a joke, but I have a request for you, when the work day is over and when you end your obligation in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, I ask you to go through pioneer park and see how in this town in winter, and I have heard that in the afternoon it is agreed that today will take a little bit shorter because of the conditions in which the MPs travel, and you can imagine that there were about 30, perhaps more, employees in the shopping houses of Belgrade, which have been standing there for days and their problem is not solved. They will be pleased if you just pass by and report to them that they know that they are not left behind and are left to themselves. I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The law on the Republic's administrative fees, and Article 9 refers to the payment of the Republic's administrative fees relating to the issue of a resolution by the state authorities. Article 9 reads - for a solution, if this law is not otherwise prescribed, if a solution is made at the request of a number of persons, the tax in this tariff number shall be paid according to the number of debtors to be handed over, no matter how many there are, that anyone who has asked the state authority to settle or treat a fee. The tax for a solution in this tariff number brought by appeal is also paid. I have proposed that this member be deleted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. I must remind the MPs and the public of the Republic of Serbia that the budget is being filled from tax and non-tax revenue. When it comes to charging tax revenue budgets, of course, they are much more significant than non-tax and per plan, or according to the 2009 Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the funds to be raised on the basis of tax revenues are 640 billion 156 million or 91.6% of the total revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and from non-tax revenues, which include republican administrative fees, republican court fees, property revenues and goods and services, a total of 58 billion, 600 million or 8.4% should be collected in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's very interesting here, and in four or five of these laws of a total of seven, the government is pulsing, and it seems to me, with itself, so it's saying, it's thinking whether it's a law that should be passed or whether this can be regulated in some other way. Of course, this matter is regulated exclusively by law, and these are the laws of material nature, and this is pure falsification whether or not it should be done, and then the government itself finds, or the legislator of this law, in order for everything to be transparent, to be all right, we define ourselves to pass this law. According to the Constitution, this is a matter that regulates itself solely by law and there is no dilemma. What did the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in its intention to fill the 2009 budget, do, as all the laws were proposed? The first law that was on the agenda refers to tariffs and it is one disastrous law and I hope, Mr. Minister, that he will not be adopted and will not be accepted in the day of the vote, because of the conscience of the MPs who are here representatives of all Serbian citizens, regardless of the political parties they belong to. The crucial reason is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia agrees and voluntarily waives significant customs revenues and protects domestic production goods. It has been said that customs duties will not be paid on the largest number of agricultural products, and that I will talk about it, which is unacceptable, not only for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but much more for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So there will be special benefits for imports of parts or agricultural tractors, the tariff is reduced, the tariff on imports of new or used vehicles from 20 to 12.5% will be reduced. Imports of chickens not over 185 grams can be acceptable, because we have learned from the comments of some MPs that we do not have domestic production, and for this reason customs may be reduced from 20% to 1%, it can be acceptable, but customs is significantly reduced by mobile and fixed phones. I don't think it should have done that, because I assume that now in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, each minister has three or four mobile phones, because a large number of Serbian citizens have a larger number of phones. I think the ministers will come to us in the next period with one bag where they'll bring cell phones, because it'll be significantly cheaper when customs are lifted. But that is why we have significantly increased the excise duty on products produced in the Republic of Serbia, which, by increasing the excise duty, will lead to the accumulation of these products, reduce the purchasing power of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, directly reflect their income, personal income, the purchasing power of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and will directly affect the reduction of production, thus reducing the number of jobs. Often mentioned, you brought citizens of Serbia, so you froze them before these low temperatures, fearing that they would cease to apply old travel documents from 31.12, so the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed a law on amendments and additions to the Law, namely that the deadline was extended until 31.12.2010, and we are coming out with the fact that it is some great success of the government in this meeting which many citizens will have travel documents, translated passports. This law on the Republic's administrative fees provides for a reduction in the fee on travel documents, and that's good, we don't criticise it. But it is bad enough to own a travel document if the citizens of the Republic of Serbia cannot travel. I think the Secretary of State of Finance will help me to ask how many citizens from Valjev can travel to Divcibar, not far away, don't need passports or visas, don't need any clearance, how many citizens from Užica can go to Zlatibor, how many citizens from Baja's Garden can go to Tara. I purposely speak of these places because they are very beautiful and interesting tourist destinations, and close to the inhabitants living in these cities, or municipalities that I have listed. So it is not enough to own a travel document, but to have a standard of living, to buy power, to make employment much higher, and then we can say that possession of travel documents will mean something to them in their lives, but without a more serious relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, there is no serious intention of having a standard of living, that conditions in which citizens of the Republic of Serbia live, change and repair. In this House, none of the government's representatives spoke of the need to invest more in agricultural production, dakrai in Serbia, such as those I will talk about, Loznica, Mali Zvornik, Krupanj, Ljubovija, Bajina Basta, Osecina, Valjevo, have fantastic conditions for serious farming. But we prefer to define ourselves for imports of meat of suspicious quality from Argentina, Brazil, from where I don't know, the meat that is imported into the Republic of Serbia is almost in the decomposition phase, and we have fantastic good conditions for livestock farming, and therefore for the production of meat and meat processing in our country. This is not what we are doing at this point, when you are serious about integration with the EU, when in the period, if this occurs, the basic basis for determining production quotas and exports, and the stock fund, and when it comes to agricultural culture, will be limited to this level, because the EU's single market, is limited to the level we have today at a time when we want to become EU members. This problem must be dealt with more seriously, but we are systematically destroying one by one production. We started off with a raspberries, which we used to call red gold. Remember, it wasn't that long ago when our country was imposed unfair sanctions and thanks to the export of red gold or raspberries we could import oil, oil derivatives and some other products that we're not in a position to provide in sufficient quantities in our country. We have two years to produce this strawberry fruit from 100,000 tons to 60,000 tons. Then we accelerated, you know how the conversation went last year in Novi Sad, we quickly began to destroy domestic tobacco production. I must say once again that the SRS parliamentary group does not advocate and protect foreign cigarette manufacturers, but we only want domestic producers, because the tobacco law is in a good way, except that the amendments and additions to this 2007 law have abolished the mandatory purchase of domestic tobacco for the production of cigarettes in our country, other things by that law have been settled in a good way, and the quality of the fruit material needed, and the conditions and way in which it can deal with the production of this agricultural culture, conditions for buying, for the marketing of cigarettes in large and small. But it seems to me that the cigarette manufacturers are not responding and that we are not surprised, Ministers, and you and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially tobacco producers, which are not a small number, if whoever bought the Nish tobacco factory is one day when energy as one of the basic inputs is collected and is at the level of price in the EU, when the workforce should have a second relationship and another award, does not remove that cigarette production completely outside the Republic of Serbia. It will be one big problem for the dismissal of a large number of workers who are engaged in cigarette production factories, but it seems to me that everyone in the government is struggling and in what way to stay a few days longer, and the less you think about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose votes we are here, and you are sitting in the government. Today, your DS counterpart, a member of the Administrative Committee, where Tomislav Nikolic was removed from the presidency on the board, said that in addition to his country's love for his country, which is not lacking in Serbian citizens and members of the SRS, the institutions of the Serbian state should be loved. Of course, you should love them, but first of all, institutions should be respected. They should respect ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, respect the president of the Republic of Serbia and respect the spokesman of the government of the Republic of Serbia Mirko Cvetkovic, because from last night's interview that gave one of the televisions with the national frequency, it was not possible to conclude that he was the first man in the government, because on the question of what if one of the ministers or his deputies had resigned, he said - I could not directly resolve it, but would have had to go somewhere else, in place with the president of the Republic of Serbia. This government is a government of doom, and that is why, together with the citizens of Serbia, we must prepare more seriously for the next elections, when the real representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will come to power, and these are Serbian radicals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12536	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Dušanka Plečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment which reads: "Article 10 is deleted. "The government did not accept it with an explanation that it is not about increasing taxis, but rather about the way taxis are paid. The objective of my amendment is not to make it difficult for citizens to find a very difficult material position anyway. It is the principled position of the SRS on these seven laws, which are defined as supporting the budget and the precondition for unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU, which we oppose because we believe will have devastating consequences for our economy. All these republican administrative fees paid by foreign citizens are justified and should remain, as well as fees on certain actions taken by the state authorities at the request of citizens, such as complaints, requests, solutions and the like. However, fees on issuing various prescriptions and credentials of citizens, such as birth certificate, citizenship assurance, residence certificate and the like, should be completely abolished, primarily because those certificates and credentials of citizens are solely required by the order of the national authorities, after which they are mostly invariable data, because we cannot change the place and date of birth or the fact that we are alive and so forth. In addition, all these data are registered at the Serbian Interior Ministry when issuing ID cards and obtaining a unique home number of citizens. Why does one state authority ask one another for assurance for whose commission is paid by a citizen? It's completely incomprehensible. Why does a citizen pay 27,000 employees in the state administration, if these are additional jobs? Why aren't these extra jobs paid by those 14 billion dinars that are set out in the budget and scheduled to pay off the work contracts? All that has been heard in the debate in the principle of a set of accompanying budget laws relating to excise duties and tariffs shall also apply to amendments. The reduction of customs duties on imports of cars, almost duty-free imports of goods from the EU, in order to allow for an absurd, non-economic, illogical and above all harmful one-sided application of the Transition Trade Agreement, which, in my opinion, will affect our economy and leave at least 100,000 people without work. All these proposals are against the interests of Serbian citizens because they are further impoverished, and EU satisfaction means new layoffs, especially in the processing industry. What does a citizen get in return from the EU? Nothing. Maybe Bozidar Djelic is using again the opportunity to deceive the public with some candidate status by the end of this year, some alleged access funds. His uninterrupted promises have nothing to do with the real situation. The EU has nothing to do with Bozidar Djelic's promises. No matter who has been in power for the last 18 years, the EU has been constantly threatening us, blackmailing us, giving us unambiguous assessments and some impossible missions. If she wanted to, the EU would have applied a trade agreement with Serbia itself. Instead, Serbia grants about 300,000 euros to the European Union. Imagine, for example, starting to unilaterally apply an agreement with Russia, so we wouldn't be living off a salvae of dissatisfaction by the ruling majority and a false opposition. The people have long realised that the EU will not. The investment of this authority in this respect will not change anything. Nothing less absurd is the behaviour of the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Economy in bilateral relations with other countries. Our businesses are constantly complaining that their neighbouring countries' markets, especially Slovenia and Croatia, are completely closed. To this, Finance Minister Dragutinovic said in a statement for television that we must behave nicely and respect the rules, although others do not. What kind of beauty is this about economic relations between states? I guess one who does not respect international and mutual regulations has consequences for his behavior. Our ministers need to protect the interests of the Serbian state, to introduce reciprocity in trade relations with other countries, not to take care of beauty, especially that some ministers were so keenly against the gas deal with Russia, saying they were allegedly given something. There was no expert principle of beauty in economic relations. It is obvious that, instead of the continuous DOS stories of a richer, happier European future, we have received only greater taxes, various taxis, interest and other taxes. It turns out that wherever a man touches a doorknob, he's got to pay some kind of tax or some kind of imposition. It should be borne in mind that each citizen of Serbia is on average with 500 to 600 euros, but the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jelasic, argues that this is not much, given that the debt of citizens in the countries around is an average of 1,500 euros. Instead of reducing the costs of over-counted civil servants by at least 30%, the government is forcing citizens to enter an even greater minus on current accounts or loans, or a budget full of taxis, excise taxes, various taxes, etc. Unreally pre-election salary increases to civil servants in any pre-election campaign would not support even much richer taxpayers. It is obvious that the widest layers of the population also bear the highest burden of over-indebtedness of the state in which they were introduced by this irresponsible government. The governor of the National Bank himself said -- difficult for the state that lives on the sale of assets and how that money goes into consumption instead of strategic investment, as the law requires, as if the citizens of Serbia didn't know it. SRS lawmakers have repeatedly pointed to the fact, regardless of the disfavor of the ruling majority and the media attacks. Since the government does not want to invest in production, it does not want to give up excessive consumption, as it has been planning more spending than possible for years back, Mr Cvetkovic's recent statement on the coming hyperinflation does not surprise us at all, he is almost promising us. Not to mention that the promised rich world will no longer lend Serbia any more than possibly some greenish one. To remind you, Serbia's official credit rating is, I quote, BB minus positive. First he went to BB minus stable, and now BB minus negative. All these codes speak for themselves. Money for a massive parasitic state machine is missing and should be taken from poor citizens. As far as we're concerned, this kind of management of state affairs deserves an NN minus smart grade, which translates into nothing, but nothing very clever.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12538	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12539	Minister Milosavljevic, are you a lawyer? No, that's too bad. I am very sorry that on Friday afternoon, some lawyer minister is not on duty to together wonder at the reasoning that the government has given in addition to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. If Mr. Dulic were here, he might be able to fix it with a cast. So, you're saying -- the reasons for the law being passed are, among other things, the problems that the law needs to solve, that is, the goals that are achieved by law. Of course, it is clear to all of us, as well as to the citizens of Serbia, that the real goals that the Serbian government wants to achieve by passing this law is that by seducing, once again, the hands in the public's pocket increase revenue in the budget. That's what we're up against from the SRS. According to the Government, the basic reason for the adoption of this law is to prescribe the Republic's administrative fees for the records and actions of the republican authorities which were in the jurisdiction of the SCG community. You then list the documents and actions in the implementation of the Law on Citizenship, which was adopted in 2004, the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies from 2007, the Law on tobacco from 2005, the Law on Organic Production and Organic Products of 2006, the Law on Telecommunications and Mining Act, the Law on Innovation Activity, etc., mainly the laws adopted in 2005 and 2006. If indeed the basic reason for the adoption of this law is that the republican administrative fees are prescribed for the writings and actions of the republican authorities that were in the jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, if that is the real reason anyone would normally say - yes, that should be done. When there is no, unfortunately, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, there cannot even be fees prescribed by Serbia-Montenegro. Question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia: What happened in the meantime? Who charged those taxes on the basis of what law did they charge those taxes? Why is it necessary to change right now? Why could it be so far, and now he can't? You know, we are neither insecure, nor irresponsible that, of course, even fewer citizens of Serbia, the government must never play with the intelligence of Serbian citizens, because they know perfectly what is behind every government proposal, behind everything some government official here says, and especially if, God forbid, the ministers who were on duty listened to the MPs. Some here are reading the proposals of future laws, some are playing with mobile phones, some are chatting with party colleagues, so they are only here because the Rules of Procedure binds them and MPs, above all, insist that the Rules of Procedure must be respected and that the Prime Minister's representative must sit down while a government proposal is being discussed. Please, now something that's really very interesting. I would ask you all to listen carefully - why law-making is the best way to solve problems? It's a title, and then the government tells us, " passing the law is the best way to solve problems for reasons of legal matter that can only be changed and complemented by appropriate amendments and additions to the law." So this is really funny. Five times the word "law" is used, and it doesn't mean anything. You should have honestly told me what the basic reason for this law was. In addition, you say: "The regulation of the matter of the Republic's administrative taxis makes a contribution to legal certainty and also provides transparency in the conduct of tax policies". Is it possible that there was no transparency in tax policymaking before this law? So does that mean, here's me as a bit of a smart conclusion, if you say this now, that he's been charging the tax as much as anyone wanted. It was not regulated by this law, and to whom you come, where you come from, it depends on him how much tax he will charge for a certain act or for a certain service in a state authority. This is how you wrote it. This law gives legal certainty to Serbian citizens -- a law that increases their administrative fees. If you didn't know, Serbian citizens, says the government of Boris Tadic -- the law on increasing administrative fees provides you with legal certainty. In fact, you keep saying, listen to your fellow lawyers, remind yourself of the first year, on freshman days, the government says in the light of the law: "The law is a general legal act, which is published and which creates equal rights and obligations for all entities in the same legal situation, thus achieving transparency in its application." You could really skip this and save your life in this big economic crisis, as you will not eat dry meat products in your house, Mr. Milosavljevic. For the sake of saving you could save this one page for the citizens of Serbia, so that you would not pass on such nebulises to the MPs. A colleague, Dusan Maric, has submitted an amendment to article 11 of this law. Like everyone, it was said by colleagues Plecevic and Lidija Dimitrijevic, which is the essence of the amendment that we Serbian radicals submitted to this law. The point is that this law, although you did not call it "an increase", but about amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, should not now have been passed, that it is not time for all the burden of the economic crisis, in one way or another, which through excises, through administrative fees, which through some such fog announced increased VAT, etc., put on the burden of citizens of Serbia. The state has to show more responsibility. Serbian citizens are in an extremely difficult situation anyway. We know well how many unemployed in Serbia, how many employees receive 15,000 dinars are barely, how many unemployed are who are being fired and are increasingly publicly and openly talking about how many pensioners are holding 5,000 dinars, and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia need at least once a year or even more often, to be in a situation to pay a republican administrative tax. When I talk about my amendment, I'm going to explain a little bit more, what Serbian citizens also need to know is that, in addition to these republican administrative fees prescribed in this law, they are obliged to pay municipal administrative fees. A colleague of Ilic, just before noon, when Mr Krasic spoke about an amendment, so he asked how many Serbian citizens would pay for the issue of passports in the increase of these taxis, you showed zero dinars and you deceived Serbian citizens. It's not true that it's zero dinars. In order for someone to take out a passport, let's say, he needs assurance of citizenship. How much does that cost? Five hundred dinars. (Free Ilic, from place: That's another thing.) That's not the second thing, that's the first thing, because without that first thing he can't get a passport. So, don't deceive citizens, yes, it is true that this law increases all the administrative fees paid to the Republic, which are paid for the sake of the state authorities. Most of the government's affairs are actually transferred to local self-government, there's a normal charge and this municipal tax, so what's prescribed here is not that, but it's significantly more, and you know it well. After all, all Serbian citizens know, when they come to the counter at the MUP, on a counter in the municipality, that they get two payments. One is for that job that's done to them and that's less tax, that's what they're done to in local self-government and that they understand they have to pay, but they don't know what this law is gonna do to them and what they're gonna pay for someone else they haven't even seen or heard, who hasn't done anything for them, but who just passed his job on to local self-government. That is the problem, and that is why we think that this law should not have been passed at this time, and that is why we have submitted 30 amendments to 30 members of the law, and every amendment means - that member and that one is deleted. We have no other way of expressing our view of this law. Your arguments - why don't you accept our amendments are offensive, because we're someone who's been watching, and I suppose you and your associates have done it, the minister certainly doesn't, neither you, nor Minister Diana Dragutinović, I totally understand what, who in that hierarchy is doing and what it really needs to do, but you should have understood - if you have 30 amendments, to delete 30 members, that there's no need to give us this kind of explanation, like we're idiots, so we don't see what article 11 says. A bill of law, whose erasure we're looking for. Then you explain that the amendment is not accepted because of Article 11. The bill does not propose an increase in the Republic's administrative fees, etc., of course not. If you don't need an increase, if you don't need a whole law, then you don't need a Article 11. When you were doing these amendments, when you examined them, then at least you needed that conclusion to make. And as we have written to them in one sentence for each amendment -- the SRS finds it unacceptable to increase the republican administrative fees in terms of the global economic crisis and the difficult social situation of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then you, as a socially irresponsible government, should tell us on each amendment. But the government of Boris Tadic thinks that right now it's time to increase administrative fees, and right now we need more money in the budget, and right now we're planning a bigger budget rebalance, and right now we want Serbia's citizens to take and their skin to fold, because we have no more, we have sold out everything that could be sold out, the budget has to be filled. What we're going to do -- we're going to increase excises, the price of fuel, the price of fuel pulls the increase of everything alive, you know that well, it's years back like that. Whenever fuel prices increase, when you increase the price of electricity you also announce to us in March, it automatically withdraws and completely logically collects all other products, because it is both production and services and goods in close connection with this. So, you're still suggesting an increase in administrative taxis. We explain every amendment to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia once again to how socially irresponsible and unserious the government they have.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12540	Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Markovic wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing these laws for a few days, which in principle represent an additional fine for the citizens of Serbia and how the law comes in as the ministers change as on the conveyor belt. For a wonderful miracle, there's always the wrong minister. Property taxes -- Minister of Faith, Excise -- Minister of Spatial Planning, Taxes -- Minister of Agriculture, Good - Trade. I propose that President Cvetkovic send a minister of religion to empower him for all these laws until the end, because only the minister of religion and Mr God can help the citizens of Serbia somehow save themselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, fees are an additional way for citizens of Serbia to be fined. In addition to the republican taxis, which are otherwise large, municipal taxes, local self-government fees, also large and Serbian citizens, while charging taxis will not be left for bread. Go for confidence - tax, go for confirmation - tax, tax, tax, tax, tax, how much more, ladies and gentlemen? At the time of socialism, the tents where the citizens came to address the municipal, or republican bureaucracy, were made so low that when you came, you had to bow down to that bureaucrat sitting behind the counter, to bow your head, to bow down. In a little local self-government, it changed, so between that bureaucrat and the citizen, eventually, there is a glass with a hand in the middle that a citizen does not have to bow to bureaucrats, bureaucracy that otherwise reproduces like amoeba. One comes, sits on a chair, 50 hours from now, already needs another. When you go into the office, and you see 10 of them, they push, not that they have nowhere to sit, but they have nowhere to hang their coat when they come. To remind you how bureaucratic it was at a time when the bulldozer revolution came to power, they came to make us happy by these experts, though, no one showed confidence that an expert, some of them in torn shoes, and now they bought a dragon, they became businessmen. The difference between these businessmen and "bismismen" is relatively small. These experts left Božidar Djelic, Mr Milosavljevic, and I don't know if anyone else, one or two remain. Everyone else has gone to the businessmen. Although Dinkic remained, but we knew for him that he was no expert, his mother Mirosinka wrote him homework when he was at the Faculty of Economics. The only thing he did expertly, that's when he put a sock on his head and entered the National Bank with a Kalashnikov. Then it started on Serbia's sunroof. Let's see how many Serbian citizens are going to have to pay for this fiction. Otherwise, all the amendments to the SRS read simply - are deleted. We believe that this law is not needed by Serbia, that those members are not also needed by Serbia. Let's look at Article 24, let's say, on page 8, or on page 7, so you can see how much Serbian citizens will pay for it, because the Serbian citizen understands when you tell him what the next day, when he shows up on the counter, or goes to one of the offices to pay, so he says this - a request to give an interpretation, an explanation, or an opinion on the application of Republic regulations. In other words, the legal advice on how to manage the forest of the republican regulations that we have passed, so often these republican regulations are absolutely contrary to each other, so people don't know which ones to apply, which ones to rely on and go to bureaucrats to explain to them - they can't do it without 1,000 dinars of tax. Then he says so - if you want to apply for the ransom of the apartment, besides having paid the apartment by your means, besides taking away both your mouth and your shoes from the child to provide him with a roof over his head, only by demanding that you can buy the apartment, 900 dinars, ladies and gentlemen. It says - a requirement to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the start of performance. Since those 500,000 jobs in the election campaign remained in the pre-election campaign, because whoever still believes in the pre-election promises of Democrats and Santa Claus, so you've now decided, because you have to sort of take care of your family, and then you file a request to open, say, some kind of action to perform, some kind of action, because the requirement to determine the fulfillment of the conditions, that you've met the conditions, 1,000 dinars. To appeal against a misdemeanor solution, 900 dinars. The judge for the violations punished you, you absolutely think he was wrong, the application for appeal cannot be without 900 dinars. To appeal against a customs solution, because remember how many times after a few months they brought back the goods that were taken away and went to the customs warehouse, people had complete documentation, but it happened, 1,100 dinars. For an emergency legal remedy, when you spend all your legal resources in some kind of process, you come up with an emergency legal remedy, it can, but 1,750 dinars. About the solution to determine the general interest in the expropriation of the immovableity of 17.5 thousand, that is not the case now. The solutions made in connection with the registration of churches and religious communities are 2,000 figures and says this - a solution to the requirement to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the start of work and to carry out the work of the certification bodies of 300,000. Let's see what the citizens need to be interested in - to issue firearms approvals, you want to be a hunter, but only a firearms license of 3,700. For any other weapon again it is from 1,800 to 3,600 etc. When you look at this back and you see what the tariffs were before, compare this to, you see that the bar is 50% higher on average. This law at a time when nothing in Serbia is working, this law at a time when we are literally opening up the market with a unilateral application of the SAA, and by doing so we are choking not only our economy, our private entrepreneurship, but we are also suffocating our agriculture, because the fat-subsidized agricultural products from that Europe that we are flocking to, however, will not, but we are flocking, will come to Serbia, asphyxiate the peasants. And in doing so, and what little we had the opportunity to produce at least a little cheaper, that our peasant at least a little cheaper produce was destroyed by a tardiness and foolish privatization, let's say, in Pancheva, we destroyed the opportunity for a farmer to come to a slightly cheaper artificial fertilizer, to produce it and to bring it to the market. Now there will be competition in the market from the Netherlands, now there will be competition from EU countries at much lower, at dumping prices, because their countries take care of agricultural producers, their countries give them fat subsidies only to produce, their countries even buy excess products, even if they have to throw that surplus product, do not allow production to be interrupted. In our country, you saw not only a peasant who handles 10-20 hectares of the country literally destroyed these laws and those we're about to bring, but we've made it possible for some criminals by several hundred hectares, you heard Mr. Peter Jojic, even 1,000 acres of state land to be taken and not paid for two years, you didn't provide interest for unpaid funds. See how much in the bank, if it were 800,000 euros, if it had raised a loan two years ago, how much interest would the bank have to pay for that 800,000 euros? That's why you've brought the one who fed Serbia so far to the beggar stick. The SRS believes that this law is absolutely unnecessary and that it needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. However, I don't know who the secretary of duty is today, perhaps Mr. Milosavljevic will be another half hour, Mrs. Kalanovic was about an hour and a half ago, it looks like they're changing for an hour. Who knows who's gonna show up here by the end of the amendment debate? I suggest again that Mr. Cvetkovic bring the Minister of Faith, only he and Mr. God can help us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12542	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12543	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, if you analyse the government's argument why it does not accept amendments to the MPs of the SRS, all of these arguments can be reduced to one thing, which is that the proposed law does not propose an increase in the Republic's administrative fees and that amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS should therefore be rejected. One quite logical question arises -- why did the Serbian government propose a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes if no change in the revenue side of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget is made on the basis of republican administrative fees, i.e. on the basis of this bill. The citizens of Serbia are increasingly clear on this issue every day. The government has a superior task and aims to ensure a unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU. The task is not easy to achieve, not just for economic and financial reasons, but primarily because of the fact that there is no consensus in the government itself on whether such a measure is in Serbia's interest or not. We could have heard different statements from the government ministers these days. Some of them even belong to the same party. We were able to read the controversial statements of the governor of the NBS and it is obvious that there is no unique position of the ruling set - should we at all go to unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement or not? The government has decided to unilaterally implement the Transition Trade Agreement, already embedded in a budget adopted at the end of last year in Serbia's 2009 budget. It is precisely because the measure called a unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement is unpopular and since it causes resistance even in the government itself, or in the ruling coalition, it is now necessary, in some way, to mask, or cloud the fact that the Serbian government will unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement, and then, in addition to the Customs Tariff Act, which was the most important law of this set of laws, it has been proposed to create several more laws, in order to create the impression that it is not a one-sided application of the Transition Trade Agreement, but rather to allow the implementation of the 2009 budget. Mr. Milosavljevic, you are an economist, you are an economic expert, you understand, as well as the MPs of the SRS, that your only wish is a unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement. This, on the one hand, means reducing Serbia's 2009 budget, as regards customs duties by about 250m to 300m euros, but to compensate for that deficit, and if you say in the Customs Tariff Bill that it is not a bountiful blow to the budget, now to replace those 250m to 300m euros, you remove certain tax breaks and on the other hand increase excise duties on motor gasoline, on cigarettes and on beer. If an increase in income is not the main objective of amending the law on the Republic's administrative fees, the question is - what did you propose in the first place? You proposed it precisely for this reason, in order to create on the small door of Serbian citizens the impression that the application of the Transitional Trade Agreement is not so terrible, that it will not have negative effects on the economy of Serbia and on the standard of living of citizens, and then in the package, along with the customs tariff law, you have proposed a law on the Republic's administrative fees, as in the customs tariff law itself, you have introduced certain provisions which are purely technical and which essentially do not change anything in the existing legislation. Your government, Mr Milosavljevic, has decided to unilaterally implement the Transition Trade Agreement, because you believe that this will speed up the process of Serbia's EU accession. Only the EU is sending you signals that none of this has anything to do with it. Whenever it comes to Serbia's EU accession, you must always make sure that there are two sides there. It is one side that wants to join, that is Serbia, that is, this authority, and on the other hand, the EU, which Serbia wants to join. Is there a desire on the EU side for us to be EU Member States? Here, Mr Minister, analyze the EU's policy from 1991 to today towards the former Yugoslavia, towards Serbia and the Serbian people. I don't think you'll be wrong if you come to the conclusion that, above all, the EU does not want Serbia as its partner, or as a Member State in its composition or at least does not want Serbia within the limits of which it is a member of the UN organisation, which means with KIM as its component. In order not to make this an empty political story, as you accuse us of the ruling coalition, Mr. Minister, I draw your attention to a statement two days ago by Czech Ambassador to Belgrade Hana Hubachev, who said there is no clear concept in the EU when it comes to the EU's EU accession strategy. It is clear that EU member states are divided, that some are closer to Serbia and that some, at least for the time being, do not agree that Serbia becomes an EU member or that at least one step closer to this international organisation. It's clear why it's done. You are trying to be closer to the EU with measures of economic policy, but as a ball, the EU always brings back some political conditions. They don't care much about what economic policy you run. First of all, you do not largely lead the economic policy as required by the EU, the World Bank and the IMF. If you read the European Commission's reports on the state of affairs in Serbia, in the areas, among other things, when it comes to economics and finance, you will see that the international community's basic requirement is to reduce public spending. From year to year, Mr. Ministers, the EU Council of Ministers, the IMF, the World Bank, advises Serbia to cut public spending, that this country is too expensive, that the state administration is too massive, etc. You're not doing anything about it. You put all those organs into the 2009 budget, all those ministries, all those agencies that existed in 2008 and when it comes to the alleged belt tightening, which you recommend to the citizens of Serbia, the state regarding this belt tightening will do absolutely nothing. Today in the afternoon debate I spoke, my colleague from your ruling coalition, Sasa Milenić did not understand me in the best way, not the essence of my discussion was a historical story. I believe you know that well. It's about something else. It is, Mr. Minister, that I have tried to draw your attention to the fact that you are not worth being bigger Europeans than Europeans themselves. They have their own political conditions that set us up. You can say that you are 100 times for the EU, until you have met these political conditions since Serbia's entry into the EU, and when you meet them who guarantees you that they will not set new conditions. Today I made a comparison between the relations that the German occupiers had in World War II with Serbian patriots, with the relationship this government has with modern Serbian patriots. What's the point? The essence is very simple. The government, i.e. some action team of the Serbian government, is giving a reward to whoever provides information on the whereabouts of Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic. Simply, I don't think there's any greater humiliation that the Serbian government could afford to all its citizens than this, that you are offering money and a million or 250,000 euros for whoever provides you with information on the whereabouts of Ratko Mladic, Goran Hadzic. You keep trying, day by day, month by month, year by year to do everything possible to find in The Hague tribunal every Serb who has participated in political and military processes in the premises of the former Yugoslavia during the 1990s. You are a year away from joining the EU. You laughed, or you said that journalists did not well interpret the former German ambassador, Cobel, who made it clear to you that we would enter the EU in about 2025, but provided we do not strain much on KIM and Vojvodina. Today I showed you, Mr. Minister, your government, that is, that action team, which is a phantom organ, is not in the Constitution of Serbia, offers a million-euro reward, or 250,000 euros, and is not closer to the EU. Look at what the Shipari are doing on KIM. A memorial centre, Mr. Minister, veterans, or former Kosovo Liberation Army terrorists, is being built on KIM, including Adam Yasari. In the creation of this memorial centre, which is financed from the budget of the so-called "memory center". The Republic of Kosovo also participates in certain European institutions. No one has said a single word against it, and full of media, not only Serbian, but these days also Italian, cut off Serbian heads on KIM, mass crimes committed by these same Cypriot terrorists during 1998, 1999 and later. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that he's in the Assembly of the so-called The Republic of Kosovo in the process of passing the law on the rights of former Kosovo Liberation Army fighters? To them, the state, these so-called republics of Kosovo, will pay pensions, disability, to buy them apartments, etc. He declares them national heroes. Not a single word from the EU against it. There is no idea that anyone could tell the ruling set that in Kosovo there is nothing in the Albanian, mafia, terrorist, from the accession of Kosovo to the EU until you give up terrorists. No, I don't. Experts from the Council of Europe are taking part in the draft law concerning the rights of former members of the Kosovo Liberation Army. On the other hand, you are giving a reward to whoever rats out Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic. It's just amazing. What else does this country have to do to finally say - people, now enough with the pressures, blackmails, humiliations of Serbia and the Serbian people? There is no state, Mr. Minister, in a world that is all over its state and political, military peak, which has delivered its political elite to some phantom tribunal, which was formed against the UN Charter, as Serbia did. You have been promising since 2000, Mr. Minister, and that is the essence of these laws, faster Serbia's accession to the EU. You are in power almost the same as Slobodan Milosevic, almost 10 years old. You got in at nine. Do you remember what Boris Tadic promised when he first ran for Serbian President in 2004? Do you remember the deadlines he set, when Serbia will become a candidate, then an EU member? Now these deadlines are being extended, although you system-based laws in this House do drastically harm Serbia's economy and citizens of Serbia. Nothing will be better for Serbian citizens because you have reduced customs duties, or reduced the revenue side of the budget in the name of customs duties by 250m to 300m euros. Absolutely nothing. It'll be worse for them. You remove tax reliefs for ordinary, small people, who may have an apartment where members of their closest family live. You're cutting off some of the tax breaks you gave them. You are introducing excise duties, i.e. increasing excise duties on gasoline, on cigarettes, on beer, on what the ordinary average world in Serbia spends. You know, I read in the context of the excise laws, that this way you're going to reduce smoking, that's how you're going to affect the health of the nation. Turn around, Mr. Minister, there are cigarettes commercials at every turn. Various tobacco companies are sponsors of football clubs, basketball clubs, sponsors of cultural events, films are made with the help of couples tobacco companies, books, monographs, galleries, art paintings etc. So, Mr. Minister, absolutely nothing will be achieved by these laws, even if you vote them here in the Assembly, and I'm convinced you will, you have a sufficient majority. Absolutely since accession, Serbia's faster accession to the EU has nothing, not because it (President: Time). I end up, not because Serbia doesn't want it, but because, as you are, it doesn't want the EU itself first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12544	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Mladenovic, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, we believe that this law does not need Serbia at all. We therefore suggested that all members of this law be deleted. At first, I will show on one case how Serbia took 100 million dinars from its citizens. Namely, the Privatisation Agency for the award of free actions sent some 220,000 notifications to citizens for the addition of documents, i.e. asking for credentials on citizenship. The republican tax on citizenship assurances costs 430 dinars, times 220, it comes out to you about 100,000 million dinars, which the state took from Serbian citizens, plus the cost of about 50 dinars for municipal manipulative costs, plus 44 dinars recommended letter, plus 20 dinars for postage. It's all going to harm and burden the citizens. Unfortunately, these notifications are received by citizens who have been registered at their addresses for 30 and over years, nor have they changed them, nor by any means, yet receive such notices. The mistake is in the republican authorities, the state is guilty, the state should bear the cost, not the guilt of the citizens. The issue of ID cards, I also consider the cost of this document to be high, and by this law they need to increase even more. To obtain them, it is necessary to pay first the ID card fee of 913 dinars at the expense of the National Bank of Serbia, then to pay the cost of making a 226 dinar ID card at the expense of Serbia's MUP. A copy of the birth certificate of 310 dinars and 430 dinar citizenship is also to be added here. When you add all of this up, it goes to about 2,000 dinars. You also have the costs of photos that I didn't consider and I think this amount is too large and represents citizens an extremely large cost, and instead of reducing it, you want to increase it even more, which will make the lives of citizens even more difficult. A fee of 430 dinars is charged for citizenship assurances, which are valid for six months. You propose this law to make it 480 dinars. To point out that 50 to 100 dinars of municipal manipulative costs are always paid, and I believe that this imposition is extremely large for citizens and that it needs to be reduced and not increased. I especially note that this period of validity of the citizenship assurance of six months is extremely short and I believe that either it should be unlimited or increase the deadline, or until some changes occur, let's say the change in the data of the applicant of the credentials or something like that, that it should apply. For a copy of the birth certificate, a Republic tax of 260 dinars is paid, and the new law provides for it to be 300 dinars. Plus, again, the municipal costs of 50 to 100 dinars, depending on the municipality, and I also believe that these amounts should be reduced or should remain within these current, existing, and should not be further increased. I note again that the birth certificate, as well as the previous document, is valid for only six months, so that in one year, citizens can take out these documents twice and each time pay these republican taxes. For an international copy, a copy in several foreign languages, it is also a Republic tax of 430 dinars, plus a municipal tax of approximately the same amount. Also, these amounts are too high and should not be increased. In certain municipal areas, mother - in - law tents, civil status, reception reference requests for certain municipal services, i.e. For inspections, various permits, going out on the ground and the like, they have more money traffic than most shops and locals in these places, they collect up to 100,000 dinars per day, and I mention it in smaller municipalities. To go on a field trip, school trips abroad, embassy agencies are looking for various documents with large republican taxes, such as overa photocopies of ID cards, health books, work books. Each overta per document costs 260 dinars, plus various parents' hand signatures for various consents are also paid by 260 dinars or for the signature of witnesses who confirm some factual state, also 260 dinars. A photocopy of a document, a Republic tax is 260 dinars, and in municipal courts, the same tax is 98 dinars. For municipal overtures, the municipal administration pays an additional municipal tax of 50 to 150 dinars per certified copy. The party's signature at municipal courts is 98 dinars, and the same goes into the republican budget. The issue fee, i.e. for the extension of the driver's licence, for issuing a certificate of understanding of traffic regulations, will be 350 dinars per new proposal. Also, for the application for registration or its extension, citizens will have to allocate 610 dinars, to issue duplicates of the driver's license - 700 dinars, to issue, or to extend the importance of the traffic permit, also 700 dinars, temporary registration of the vehicle will cost 1,480 dinars, and to confirm the registration of tractors and working machines, also 1,480 and to confirm registration of motorcyclists and bicycles with a 700 dinar engine. For an act requiring consent to the curricula and training programme for motor vehicle drivers and tractor drivers 6,500 dinars, and for a solution to the requirement for estrangement of the conditions for the operation of the driver training centre, as many as 65,000 dinars. For a request to issue a certificate of technical conditions that meets the vehicle for international public transport in road transport, 1,500 dinars, as well as for confirmation of links and compliance with the conditions prescribed by Euro 3 standards, also 1,500 dinars. The issue of credentials, copies and other personal documents requires individual states to verify a stampede. This is a seal confirming that the municipal authority or individual official issued the document. The confirmation by this seal costs a party 1,431 dinar, normally plus a Republic tax which has already been paid to issue this document, a copy of the birth certificate, driver's license, various diplomas and the like. Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, is asking for military pensioners living in Serbia to confirm life or support, where a republican tax of between 300 and 500 dinars is also paid. The fees at the Republic Geodetic Institute are also high. In order to issue a list of immovableities, it is necessary to allocate 520 dinars on behalf of the Republic tax and 533 dinars of tax for the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is a total of 1,053 dinars. I would also point out that the same tax has been increased even seven times since 2000. For the change in ownership of the purchased parcel, in addition to paying the real estate tax, 520 dinars for fees for the Republic Geodetic Institute, 5,288 dinars for the Republic of Republic tax should also be allocated, which is a large amount for citizens and the result of these large amounts is a large number of purchased parcels not to change ownership in the catastro. So people just don't have that kind of money and they don't want to change ownership. The problem is long-standing in Serbia. There are large fees for going out of the geometry on the pitches, tearing and dividing of those which have been increased from five to six times in the last few years. For the issue of passports, for which someone has pointed out that they are free, I will now deny it, in addition to the republican fee of 170 dinars, it is necessary to pay 2,000 dinars to the NBS for the travel document form, which should also be added to 800-900 dinars depending on the municipality's birth certificate and citizenship assurance. Total costs exceed 3,000 dinars. The solution to the request for the registration of the association in the Register of Association costs 5,240 dinars. I'm going to give you a lot of examples that I think are also high and that there's no need to go with this zoom, that it should have been realistic to stay far lower. The decision to register the establishment of a sports organisation, i.e. a society, or alliance in the Register of Sports Organisations as an association of sports companies costs 9,100 dinars. Decision on the registration of data changes in the Register of Sports Organisations as associations of sports companies, i.e. the Federation of 5,200 dinars. Various requirements and related to the supply of arms are moving around 1,000 dinars, and the tax on the application for training in the handling of firearms is 21.820 dinars. I don't think this is at all consistent and that a request to handle firearms, if anyone already owns it, should be much lower. However, 21,820 dinars will prevent many from submitting this request. Approving a foreign citizen that it can permanently settle in the Republic of Serbia costs 8,000 dinars. It is 52,370 dinars for the authorisation to work, and for reregistering the same 26,190 dinars. At the request for an essential examination of the patent application, it costs 15,000 dinars, and only a request for the termination of the stamps for non-use costs 20,000 dinars. For permission to carry out the collective exercise of copyright and related rights, 80,000 dinars, and the same cost of restoring this licence. As far as spatial planning and construction are concerned, there are 3,490 dinars at the request to give an expert opinion on spatial and urban plans, and 15,500 dinars are required for a solution. For a solution to the requirement to determine the fulfilment of the requirements for the implementation of works under the law governing the construction of a building of 16,500 dinars. Requirements for the authorisation of detailed groundwater research range from 20 to 60 000 depending on the amount of water flow and depending on whether water is ordinary or mineral. I think these are all huge expenses for the impoverished population. Imagine, rural families who in the winter days have the only income from agricultural pensions that amount to 8,000 dinars, citizens who have lost their salaries, no jobs, no income, I consider these republican taxes to be an extremely large imposition for most of Serbia's population. They need to be reduced, and by no means, as provided for by this law, to increase further. We have an example, and today we have met with workers of the Belgrade department store who have been on strike here for more than a month, where Christmas and New Year's Eve were both in the open air. I believe that these are the priorities that this government needs to address, the factories that have been abandoned, which have been sold out, they should be launched, and that is what this government should be looked after and what should be the goal in the next period, to enable these people to work normally, to start production and thus start a better life in Serbia, and in no way take the last dinar from the already poored population on new grounds. For the end, I'd just like to mention a huge bureaucracy in the process of extracting these documents. You literally need two or three requests, patterns, credentials, etc. for each document you take out. I believe that this has exceeded every measure in Serbia and literally when it is necessary for you to go to retrieve the relevant document, you need hours and hours, and some times more days to get to it. And because of this, I'm going to repeat once again, for every document that you're pulling, you need more requirements, and more forms and more beliefs, for one document you need five or six before to get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12546	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Anyone else want to go by the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Krasic wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12547	In defense of this amendment, I will begin by calling senior viewers to remember, up to 15-20 years ago, the Republic's administrative tax, municipal taxes, and even court fees were stamps. They stick to demand, appeal, lawsuit and stand the nominal value. It could've been bought on traffickers. The statements were really modest at first, and later they increased slightly. When all these taxes began to increase, it became illusory to print stamps and started with cash payments, i.e. the payment card served as proof that the payment of the tax had been made. Why did I start this tax-mark exposure? Not because of Pera's administrative department or someone in some office, but for a simple reason to point out that this tax, the tax mark was a means of recording that something had entered into the procedure of the state authority as a submission and that it served as evidence that, before it came to the person who had to settle on request, it had passed through the office, that it had been recorded and that the maltene had officially begun the procedure. As appetites increased, someone concluded that these taxes could also make significant funds for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, etc. Then every sense of printing tax marks was lost, and it already started with cash payments. The payment was used to prove that the previous obligation was somehow fulfilled. Now we've come to the point that the bill promoter has initiated the concept of tax marks and taxes, so he says that it should correspond roughly to the costs of the state body's work on the processing of demands. They've probably been fooled by these bankers who, besides that interest, account for the costs of processing demands. So they say if banks can have the cost of processing demands, and what we do at the state administration wouldn't have the cost of processing requests to issue citizenship assurances. Then came this crazy story about the amounts. It's important to understand what's going on with some insignificant income as the government changes, it hasn't started since 2001, to understand right away, it started earlier, and it strengthens its appetites to provide funds. Mrs Pop-Lazic's amendment was submitted to Article 15, which concerns a member of the 16th existing Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. The innovation, if it can be said or changed, is that maltenes are defined as one position and the current member builds on something that existed in federal regulations, and it concerns the payment of diplomatic and consular fees, both in the country and abroad. Nothing here is spectacularly new, I would say more that it is a legal-technical change, because there will be no law that has been passed on at the federal level, but there will be only this republican one, and that is where the rate will be calculated the amount of diplomatic-consular tax if the payment is made in the country according to that department abroad, what does this department do, how it transfers to the account of the Foreign Ministry and how it is transferred from the account of the Foreign Ministry within 10 days at the latest, those funds are transferred to the prescribed account for the payment of this type of income. I would first of all ask the MPs to pay attention to something that has been published today, and it has to do with the republican administrative fees. About 13:30 today, news was done by the agency, according to the -- Serbia's budget deficit in 2008 increased by nearly 9 billion dinars and amounts to 54.7 billion dinars, according to the finance ministry's final account. I don't think it's exactly said, it's impossible that there's a final account, it's probably an estimate, or the Ministry of Finance informed the government according to the information available that it's a state of affairs if it's made at 31.12.2008. How does that explain it? According to the final account, the Serbian state's revenues last year amounted to 649.2 billion dinars, instead of the planned 650.1 billion, while expenditures reached 703.9 billion dinars, although they were scheduled to amount to 695.9 billion. Note, Serbia's government originally planned the budget deficit to be 40.9 billion dinars, but it increased to 45.8 billion dinars last October. Nevertheless, the year has ended with a deficit of as much as 54.7 billion dinars. The main reason for this huge deficit increase lies in increasing expenditures that were 7.9 billion dinars higher than planned, and only partly in revenue cuts, whose deficit is slightly less than a billion dinars. Gentlemen of the People, you present in the hall, you who are not present, especially the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to interpret this agency news. The National Assembly, through the 2008 budget law and the rebalancing bill, determined that the Republic of Serbia could spend 649.2 billion in 2008. 703.9 billion were spent. They did not have the authority of the National Assembly to spend more than the Rebalancing Law has been approved. That's more like nine billion. Please, we all at the National Assembly have an obligation, because if this is true, and since B 92 is the source of data, then I'm absolutely sure that's true, then Mirko Cvetkovic has to come here and resign on Monday. He's on his way? If he's on his way, tell him to get there as soon as possible, because if this agency news is correct, then someone in the government has committed the most serious crime possible. Please, I can't say that on the basis of agency news, but if by any chance we had a qualified State Auditing Institution she would check this recognition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens, they spent more in 2008 than they were allowed by law. Where did they find the surplus? Where did they end up in debt? Did they get our approval to be in charge? No, they're not. They did not get approval, they were in charge, they created a relatively permanent commitment to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They're in charge, they've spent, and you're monitoring the transfer you should return, and that's why they're raising republican administrative fees, which is why excises are rising, which is why customs are being released, because the IMF director's decision on 530 million dollars has been granted to the Republic of Serbia for 2009. The government is a danger to the financial system and the economic perspective of the Republic of Serbia. If the agency news is correct, they acknowledge that they have committed a crime, they have tasked every citizen of the Republic of Serbia without obtaining the approval of the National Assembly for those duties. They broke the law as a collectiveity. To remind you, Vojislav Seselj has received a criminal report from you as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs, because he signed a decision that was taken by the Government, because the funds allocated to the earthquake, which were not spent, were immediately transferred to the flood recovery in 1999, Jagodina and all those places. What should be done in this situation now? Should we hang them all? Should we hang them? What do we do? They showed they don't care about the National Assembly at all, so they don't come in here. At the same time, we have a call for a million and 250 thousand euros to be given to someone who will turn 91-91, and all costs borne by the state, and exchange rates, and taxes. They even said that they would pay taxes on the revenues they would give to licensed and unlicensed pointers. In Kosovo and Metohija, there is a monument to terrorists. The EU declared genocide day. The indictment against Radovan Karadzic has been changed, where all Serbia and every Serb are being pushed into four joint criminal enterprise. Customs are being released, everything is being destroyed. Where's our foreign reserve? How much interest is prescribed and how much is received based on these deposits? Some estimates, you read the newspaper what they say, 600m euros has been lost by the state. I don't do research, I just read. At the same time, we have a situation that a zombie hurried in September of last year to get permission as soon as possible to fly a boat, because the tax jumped to 530 dinars, and now he's making a new series of White Ships. He wants a man to ride a white ship because he's "insulted and surprised." Everyone's got yachts, so let's get him a yacht, go to Pančevo at the Iron Man's to give him permission to drive a white ship. We are not going to have fun with the white ship, offended and surprised, we are not going to ask whether there is a decision to drive ships and boats, we are not going to ask to determine whether this Ironovic has done anything in Captain Panchevo, we are not going to do anything about it, but we are asking for an answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since we cannot possibly get the final accounts of the Republic of Serbia's budget for 7-8 years. Here, B 92, I said B 92 is good television, says the budget deficit of 9 billion dinars. Please inform Cvetkovic to inform us that the government no longer exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12548	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? Mr. Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12549	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are discussing a set of laws that are extremely important to complete this, based on the Law on the Budgetary System, the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia. We had a budget for 2008 and in October we received a rebalancing of that budget. Then we had serious objections to the projections that were made. We assumed that a good part of what was planned with the budget, i.e. the rebalance of the 2008 budget, would not be realised. The rebalancing was adopted sometime in early November, November 1st or 2nd, to explain in December that the budget is late because projections are waiting, because we need to make as much budget as possible, because an arrangement with the IMF has been pending, we have received the draft budget for 2009. In those months and a half, since the rebalance was adopted until the budget reached us, the government has proposed that revenues be reduced by 200m euros. The rebalancing project envisioned that they would be 650 billion, and by the time the budget arrived it had already been corrected and it was said it would not be so much, but it would be 200m euros less. Today, official data has been released, the finance ministry has come out with data on total revenues. How alarming the situation is is the fact that, compared to something we discussed here just ten days ago, the new 200m euros is less. When we talked about the essential problems that await us this year, these are the problems that are predicted to be very bad and that something that is predicted within 15 days or a month will be denied. At that time, we warned that it is not realistic that Serbia has a GDP growth of 3.5%, that it is not realistic that the drop in exports will be only about 5% and more realistically that the decline in imports will be only about 5%. It would be good if so, it would be good for the citizens of Serbia, but it is not. This data now fully assures us that Governor Jelasic is right when he says that we are expected to be rebalancing very quickly, that most ministers are right when he says that we are expected to be rebalanced and then it is a big question why, at least what we talked about only 15 days ago is not respected, why we did not include in the draft budget all these things why we would not help the citizens of Serbia. At the time of this debate in Washington, at the IMF's headquarters, at the board of directors of finance and governors agree a stand-by arrangement with the IMF. The IMF director came out yesterday with estimates that their estimates for the world economy aren't real. They corrected the estimates in late November, but now they say it will be much worse. We have data, and from what we can see, that exports have dropped drastically, that imports are decreasing by over 10%, it's clear that none of the macroeconomic assumptions will be realised. This means that income will be significantly lower, which means that we have to cut our spending, and that means that we need to be more serious about planning and that we need to see more seriously what's coming next year. Whether to increase VAT from 18% to 20% is a drastic thing for Serbian citizens, but all this along with such planning can lead to a serious collapse of the financial system. We have information from the finance ministry today. Just two weeks ago, the finance minister assured us that it would be something completely different, even though she had all that information in front of her. Errors in only two weeks are 200m euros. So, very quickly, we will discuss the effects of the crisis here, the measures that we need to take, and very quickly on the agenda, we will have a budget rebalance, and then the appearance of all these laws that we are now discussing will have a completely different meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12550	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12551	Ladies and gentlemen, the 16th member of this law reads - fees in the Republic of Serbia are paid to the prescribed public income payment account. Taxed bonds based in the Republic of Serbia, which address diplomatic-consular presidencies, are paid in dinars from the Republic of Serbia, calculated according to the official middle rate of the dinar compared to the euro on the day of payment of the fee, at the expense of one of the members. The revenue from the fees prescribed by this law belongs to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The funds of the fees prescribed by this law paid to the DKP foreign account are transferred by the DKP to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The funds of the fees referred to in Article 4 shall be transferred from its account to the account referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The transfer of the funds referred to in Articles 4 and 5 to the statement of 1 of this Article shall take place within 10 days of the expiry of the month in which the fee is charged. I purposely read Article 16, which the SRS believes should be deleted, as in others, according to amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary club. What was not surprising, but really represents a certain cynicism, is also the argument of the government that reads like this - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 16. The bill does not propose an increase in the Republic of Serbia's administrative fees, as explained in the amendments, but rather the setting up of powers for the heads of diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Serbia abroad, to decide to refund the charges charged. What I would like the present minister, if, of course, finds the material to respond accordingly and possibly sees it, is that the government believes there will be no increase in the tax if the second-member indent says - tax bonds with headquarters, i.e. residence. The residence in the Republic of Serbia, which addresses diplomatic and consular representations from the Republic of Serbia, is paid in dinars by a consular fee, calculated according to the official middle rate of the dinar compared to the euro on the day of payment of the fee on the basis of Article 1 item. What we expect, of course, is that we are not looking forward to it, according to any methodology to calculate that the degree of inflation will exceed two figures, that the course of the euro will be amazingly high. And now the National Bank of Serbia, of course, has problems trying to target inflation, to curb the course of the euro. We don't understand how you think these fees will have anyone to pay, a situation where Serbia is directly slipping into recession. What is also very important, and can also be a reason for this amendment, and any similar amendment when it comes to those legal packages that are supposed to fill the register of state and that trying to actually preserve social peace is the following. The SRS research team has been trying to understand for the past month what it has been like to be on the way to the parties that did the former DOS, and they have actually taken over all the levers of power and state apparatus on October 5, 2000, without having implemented concrete radical reforms in any area of life in Serbia. In the end, it is the mandate, those are the pre-election promises that gave you the confidence of citizens to bring down the totalitarian, authoritarian regime of Slobodan Milosevic and make Serbia a country worthy of life for each individual. We've actually come up with some significant data. It's a World Bank document. When you enter the World Bank website, in fact, unfortunately only in English form can you find very precisely recorded and extrapolated how much money has been poured into Serbia through the form of donations. What we have never been able to find out - where the money that the great European Community, or the International Community, poured into Serbia, actually went away? What are the projects, who took part in the projects, what reforms have been made? What we can hear is that Mr Dinkic said he had inherited an administration of 8,000 employees and now has 28,000. We can also learn from this World Bank document -- that in total public spending, management and social enterprises have 250,000 employees, which means 10% of all employees in Serbia. What is a recommendation that this number of public spending be reduced to 40,000 over the next few years, we learn it from the World Bank document. It's also a problem, and we've never been able to find out, the next data set. So even before 2000, we had concrete data on how much money is being poured into democratic structures that should support society's reform and ultimately change power. We're not gonna deal with this. It is very important, and this document testifies, it says: "A donor conference in June 2001, a programme of economic recovery and transition, which collected $1.3 billion to support the first phase of the programme". It is further said: "The World Bank and the European Commission have therefore held two main donor conferences, the second one was in 2003, to support Serbia in its development efforts and Serbia has recognised 4.1 billion euros through international aid between 2000 and 2007. The government's goal is to mobilise around 400m euros a year through external funding until it becomes an EU member, so it expects half of it to receive in donations and half of it in loans and loans. The four largest donors of the Serbian government are the United States, Italy, Germany and Sweden." So this is the initial data, and time won't let me analyze all the data between 2000 and 2007. We, the research team of the SRS, have collected very precisely -- which state organisations, which resolutely, which state institutions, which para-state institutions have received loans, donations; who has paid some funds -- is in the process of analysis by the SRS. With the budget rebalancing very quickly, we will not be waiting for you, but for the citizens of Serbia to show -- that the state of Serbia in the climate, therefore outside the sanctions, outside the wars, with the full support of Europe, so the most developed European and world countries, has done the following. So, the privatisation funds, the investments she spent on buying social peace and something else. This "one more thing" will be very specific, with data not available to the SRS, but which we have tried to translate, to go before all of you, and then they will seek the direct and concrete responsibility of all members of the government. We are very aware that no one can predict the situation of the global financial crisis and that with Serbia, small Serbia, undeveloped Serbia, it will reflect the breakdown of all international financial institutions, that what was created in Bretonwoods, absolutely no longer exists. What should happen here is that it is never really targeted as a goal or a strategic plan during a period of time, and that the reforms of the system have been delayed because you simply tried to secure a mandate and political will, not because you entered into serious reforms, because that alone would not be so much public spending and we would not be in trouble right now. What I'm talking about is not only the perspective of the SRS, it also speaks the speech of Governor Radovan Jelasic at the session of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce Assembly dedicated to the new challenges in the economy in 2009 in light of the global financial crisis. To remind you, it was December 23rd 2008, where, among other things, when I talk about the macro level, Mr Jelasic says: "As all developed countries, primarily those that have implemented restrictive fiscal and monetary policy over the past few months, have been implementing relaxation of unprecedented proportions. For example, America's budget deficit will be around 15% for the current budget year. Serbia, like many other countries in the region, cannot mate with similar measures for several reasons -- Serbia had a high budget deficit in good times, so privatisation money was spent primarily, i.e. No reserve was created for challenging times as they are present. Any additional money that has been created in the budget for the last few years has been spent first on salaries, pensions, material expenses and so on, and then possibly on investments. The SRS really hopes that you who are owned to respond to what is rightful fear and justifiable dilemmas are for us, because we are trying to really come up with and understand how we will all try to overcome the crisis together, because soon there will be no family in Serbia that will not be touched by the crisis. Many will lose their jobs, many will be taken away from their apartments because they will not be able to pay off credit rates. The problem of the crisis will be the problem of all of us, that you who have no excuse that you did not know, because you have entered power and taken responsibility for yourself, as well as us. So what we're going to do in the next period, based on a very professional analysis, is try to get a concrete answer to who's responsible and who's to blame for the fact that hunger and unemployment are being dragged into Serbia and we didn't do anything to offer another concrete solution? To be clear, the work of the opposition is not to propose, but rather this: to analyse, to fear, to criticise, for one purpose, like all of you -- that a Serbian citizen lives a life of worthy men. When we come out with that data, then we expect you to have a qualified response -- what prevented that on the path of reform, democratic authorities from carrying out a single reform based on a project that received a certain financial framework that the project envisions and plans to support? So, we will seek direct responsibility, because you, as you have inherited the obligations, have both a certain responsibility and a certain right in front of all citizens of the Serbian state. What is also certain, and what you have also missed, is why we are also not happy, and perhaps we are now talking something that is not true or not based on certain arguments, but you will allow - we have not had a chance to see the Serbian government here, which has come out in the period of the global financial crisis and said: the situation is like that, here's the plan. We want to do it this way and this way. We don't know what the plan is, we don't know what the methodology is. The only way, gentlemen ministers, is for us to be informed on the basis of public information funds and by individually searching for official websites of official institutions and trying to understand the overall nature of the situation and how other serious countries that have already done so and having an extraordinary session with a single topic: how to overcome the emerging crisis. We in the state of Serbia, who can't pair any country even in the region, we haven't had, and we've had examples of managers, because the government is the manager, the managers of that company who work for big companies self-initiatively, according to their professional and human morals, we've given up their fees, because they live in a country where every third citizen is out of a job, and staying out of work is equal to the fear that now is worse than death, because that moment you're left without everything, without an apartment, without everything that credits you to imitate a man's life. You're expecting us with a precise analysis, and we're expecting you here with qualified and precise answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12552	Mr. Shormaz has an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to support the amendment of the distinguished colleague Ragush, because he, as well as most of the amendments the opposition has submitted, shows that what we have been saying here for days, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this, as it has been made, as agreed, of course cannot do better. In essence, not only does it not work well for the Republic of Serbia, for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia, but it does so much damage that whoever comes to power after them will have huge problems to solve the situation and help Serbia. Serbia is our country, Serbia is my country and what kind of man I would be if I didn't do everything I could to help Serbia. At this point, as a MP and as a member of the DSS, I can say that the only responsible behaviour is that we could do otherwise, if we could try to help Serbia together, but the very ones who are in power do the opposite, the only thing I can say at this point is that this authority should be sent as soon as possible because of this set of laws that they gave us and because of the draft budget that we adopted. This is all the opposite of what was to be done. We also received this information just before colleagues Radojko Obradovic and Krasic said about what the Ministry of Finance apparently announced and the agency transferred to Serbia. We warned when discussions were both on budget rebalancing and on the budget that it was unrealized and that it would not be so. This power goes from Greek to mistake. I've said that a few times already. Let's just say that just for the sake of budgeting, and that's not all about one country's economic policy, just for the sake of filling up the budget, trying to get better, for example, privileged those firms, those legal entities, those companies, entrepreneurs who didn't regularly meet their obligations, first of all, according to their employees, in the form of social, pension, health insurance payments, by promising them the bill to erase interest. We are also then, if the debts that were due by the end of 2008, come on that we are as opposition, but also the businessmen warned that this is a bad measure, that this is the measure that will lead to the opposite effect. And it led to the opposite effect, because even those who were regular payers, who worked in accordance with the law until then, simply said -- what I would do now, will write off my interest in 2009, let me invest that money in something else in this situation. It was a big mistake, it was not supposed to be done and thus it is not helping the Serbian economy. As well as this increase in administrative fees, excise duties, everything else we have been saying, and the opposite of reducing certain customs rates that Serbia is practically helping the EU in this situation. From the promise that we will have access to European funds, the faster the EU path, which the citizens believed at the end of a better life, 200,000 new jobs, turned out to be nothing, that everything was the other way around. Nor what we are doing now, the latest courtship practically with a unilateral application of the trade agreement, will speed Serbia's path to the EU, I would like to, but it will not and will only cause Serbia damage in 2009, greater than these projected 260m euros, as it will lead to many other problems as well. As a matter of fact, they also favour these decisions on customs rates. Who are they helping? Again to those who have money, I repeat the third time behind this pay phone. One who has 18,000 euros to buy some modest car, which comes from the EU, has 20,000 euros to buy it, but 95% of Serbian citizens do not have 18,000 or 20,000 euros to buy that car. Who are we basically helping this way? Why are we doing this? It will not certainly contribute to us, living or seen, that this year we are moving rapidly towards the EU. After all, people have so many problems and they themselves because of this global economic crisis don't have that much time to deal with us. You promised yourself that in a pre-election campaign, which is, of course, your custom, you promised, I think it was April 29th, and you signed a collective agreement with the unions. You needed that because of May 11th, you took pictures there, and President Tadic was there. They said to me specifically - there are those present and from the ruling majority, so we called you back then, that you didn't come. So just so we don't turn out to be manipulants, take a picture by the union and promise them something at the time of the election campaign, that's why we didn't come, as much as it could have been politically profitable. But, come on, what happened, then you not only promised them, but you also signed the extended fact of that same collective contract. What happened after that? Those days you can't say you didn't know. Zharkovic wrote to you in "Time" on those days when you signed it, and the brokers were throwing themselves off the building in New York, committing suicide. You couldn't possibly have known about the global economic crisis. Come on, what did we tell you in September and October to overcome the global economic crisis in Serbia, but how did you not know in November that it was overcoming the crisis in Serbia? A few days after that, it can't be applied and then new tensions, new debates, new problems. All this stuff you're doing is not good. What needs to be done is for this country to become cheaper for citizens, not only to call on pensioners to save, citizens to save, to put refrigerated pots in the fridge so they don't spend too much electricity, not hot, and all that crap we hear through electronic media from individual officials, including ministers in the government. We need to save in the right way, we need the largest government, if you're already talking about government reconstruction, from 27 cabinets to 15, you need to get rid of all those advisors, a hundred advisors you brought to the government and that you're paying dearly, you need to continue privatisation as soon as possible, and you don't say that it stopped, you brought in October at the government office. It's unspeakable. The businessmen are laughing, now that they're going to the Privatisation Agency they can't believe what kind of regulation you've made. You've brought a regulation that states capital in a particular company can have mixed, social and state capital, in a particular company, pay at once, that's the term you're using -- all of a sudden -- not right now, not in that time, not in the entire amount, but paid at once. Everyone knows that it even stopped and slowed down the privatisation process, and again because of budget filling. There's no more of what's been delayed to six wars, in six years, privatizing that it can, and you've abolished it. You're making trouble at every possible step of the way. Taxes should be reduced, administrative fees, VAT should be reduced, not increased, it should be reduced to 15%. That's a real measure. It is a measure that would psychologically mean for businesses in Serbia, it would certainly be better to charge the same VAT, because there is a problem with the collection, and if you increase it there will be no higher VAT entry, because the rate of the collection will be reduced. It needs to be cut down to make it a bigger charge to debalance companies and businesses, so they don't have to fire workers because of these increased costs, less profits, because, as we can see from all data, the economy is in trouble. If it is known that agriculture is the one that still brings us the most, then that same farming should be subsidized. I'd like you to see it in the budget, give that rebalance as soon as possible, so we can do that kind of thing. Agricultural subsidies, cut VAT. What about money to help the economy? We see in the papers, there's a tycoon fight going on -- who's going to get how much of it. You held a meeting with them behind closed doors, in which way that money was distributed, and in fact the question is whether or not it will be, because as we can see, it's not going to go the way we see it. In other words, if you keep doing this, unfortunately, Serbia is not writing well. I repeat again, regardless of the general political consensus that Serbia is a place in the EU, it is extremely wrong at the moment to apply a unilateral trade agreement with the EU, because it will cost Serbia too much, and who knows when Serbia will benefit from that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12554	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? (No) Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Momchilov wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12555	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, in front of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 17 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I suggested, like all my other party colleagues, that this member be deleted. The explanation of our authorised representative, Miss Lidija Jocic, is already well known to you, that we have submitted identical amendments to all members of this law, believing that he is absolutely not good and that he does not need to be adopted in general. Why do we think that? I'll try to convince you, all here, so we can go first from Serbia, our country in which we live. Serbia is a country of about 7.7 million people according to some of the latest statistics. Of which, according to official state data, 2.5 million are employees, of which 1.4 million are employers in the state service and private companies, 570,000 are entrepreneurs, and 500,000 are farmers. You know the circumstances under which our farmers live and work today. We have, according to official state records, about 733 thousand unemployed. It is the latest nomenclature that is in line with European regulations. According to some other indicators, the numbers might be different. We have 1.6 million pensioners. If we look at how much material resources our citizens have and we take the average personal income, we see that today it is about 30,000. You know what the prices are, you know how to live with it, and on the other hand, if we see how much the average pension is, then we know that it's about 15 grand, and then we can also know that with these means today you can live solidly, badly, or well. What the MPs of the SRS, when we had a budget debate, pointed out, must be repeated once more. Before I turn on those things that are well known and which, I think, should always be repeated to be completely clear, this burden of filling the budget gaps must not be passed on only to the back of our citizens. We believe that in the ongoing severe economic crisis that will hit us, this distribution must be fair and that is why we believe that taxes should not be raised. We understand that the state must have its original incomes, that administrative fees certainly represent it and we believe that at this point those figures that have so far had to be allocated can remain, but there is no room for them to increase. We were saying that the unbalanced distribution of the burden in our country is unbalanced. We saw that we in the Assembly were, in this budget, kind of thrifty, so we defined the smaller funds by budget for the Parliament's affairs, but the government, the executive authority, is not. It is one of the most expensive and expensive governments, one government that has 26 ministers, which has over 150 state secretaries and it is a disgrace and shame. It was the first number of 100, so when they counted, they came to 150. Mr. Minister, who's in the government, doesn't even know how many state ministers there are, but that's not weird. You're acting like a feud, your ministry. You have no idea what one ministry does, what else it does, and what the other one does. Here's an example of health care, to convince you, because I see you're untrustworthy. The Ministry of Education issues, I'm doing a digression, but you've offered me permission to go to private medical school and he's starting to work, he's doing normal. However, the health ministry does not allow students to practice practically in health institutions in Belgrade at the age of four. That's what the government is like. One ministry gives permission, the other doesn't give, and who suffers? They suffer children, future medics, whom you, by your own feudal way of organising the Ministry, the Government, are disabling the existence and normal professional career. You're the government, for that matter. When we looked at the cost of the president of the state, we saw that they were increased. We've seen how much the vice presidents spend, and that's already a substantial amount of money, so I don't repeat it. Two, six million euros goes to the vice president's office, Mr. State Councilman, and you check it out, so say it's not true. Not to mention the cabinet of the Prime Minister will get a little more money than last year. Then how can we say everyone's gonna save? If everyone's going to save, then everyone needs less money from the budget to get it next year, which we estimate will be very difficult. No, I don't. There's gonna be a belt-tightening for someone, and they're not gonna do it for someone. The citizens will certainly have it through your excise duties and the suggestion of these excise duties, and the increase of taxis. It's completely undeniable. Of course, we resented you for not focusing the funds properly on agriculture that should have been subsidized on such difficult occasions. Not to explain again why, and then a particular insistence on a harmful and economically profound theory that a trade agreement with the EU should be implemented. The losses of 300m euros have been calculated and that is what is certainly waiting for us. Since you're doing a budget so badly, then you'll use your money and your taxes to try to plug those holes. You won't make it. You've got budget rebalances ahead of you, and that's quite clear. We'll see what happens. It's clear to us that the situation isn't easy, that it's not easy for the government either, we understand that. It is clear to us that the world's problems will be difficult to touch, and when we unprinciple you, we are guided by only one idea, to try to point to some irregularities in this situation that could be corrected, and to say again the ways in which this situation can be corrected. In order not to be just a criticism of the flat, this isn't good, so this won't be, so you didn't do it right, what would we do, which are our proposals, I'll only get caught up with one problem, which I think is important, which is the elimination of corruption in the state of Serbia. It was the leading parol of all parties in the election campaign. It was one of the top tasks of the Prime Minister, the prime minister when he came to us and explained that the fight against corruption was your main task. After all, if we are looking at the parties and the DS party, your president, Boris Tadic, said there should be a fight against the leprechauns in your ranks, referring to the corrupt members of your party, and we heard from Mr Dinkic that there are similar thugs with him. Corruption is the cancer of every society, it is indisputable and what is important is that we have this systemic corruption and it is generated by the political summit. That's what I'm going to prove to you on one case, so there's no dilemma. All this talk I'm going to say on the basis of official papers, which have been reached by the official authorities of the Serbian state, the financial inspection. Where we are in this corruption, that's another interesting story. If we want to trust the Transparency International Agency, then we're in some 85th place, out of 180 countries in the world, with a number of 3.5 points, and the best result is to have 10. We're a long way from 10, but we're in that place. If we want to tell the people what the situation is, the Council of Europe has a GRECO, a team that has been appointed to monitor corruption in countries in the transition and countries of the Council of Europe. They monitored Serbia twice and gave us 25 recommendations to implement, and in the latest report, they say you do not carry out half of it either. Therefore, you so-called. Europeans, for God's sakes, are making fun of and playing with this Europe. You ignore that Mr. Kos, who is head of this organization, says that if you continue to receive sanctions from the Council of Europe like this. If we want to bring things down to the simplest way for citizens to understand us, what does it cost a citizen to corruption in Serbia, about 25% of the budget goes to corruption. Let's say even simpler words about what that means. This means that our citizens about everything they pay in this country pay 20% more than they would have had to have any corruption. Here's one government, which has sworn to fight corruption, a way to fill these budget gaps, only if it wants and if it can. Let me just say a few examples. Health care is closest to me. I'm not going any further than that. I'll give you clear examples that corruption has taken hold, that it is systemic and that it is the most connected to public procurement. Public procurement in Serbia is about 250,000. Some 177 billion people have reported money, received from public procurement, and half of it has not been reported. They're unreported. So it turns out that 45 billion went away, eaten by corruption, if we add another 50, that's close to 100 billion eaten corruption last year on public procurement alone. I won't read to you what Europe has told you, and I have it here, why this isn't being implemented. What's the situation? I will read to you about this, he says, nothing has been done on the development and implementation of the baseline strategy for the development of the public procurement system in Serbia, which was prepared in 2006. It was adopted in 2006, but nothing was applied, a 2008 report. Nothing's been done. You know what they told you? It is not necessary to change, but to apply, that this is Serbia's basic problem. Even this legislation, and what are you doing? You're joking. You change a law that you cannot enforce, as you have brought the Law of the Court unnecessary, to say that you are working to combat corruption and then you have brought our judiciary into a very unpleasant position. I'm very embarrassed to be running a dialogue with you from the bench. I wish you'd come out and tell the public that I'm wrong, so I can answer you and it's a civilized and normal parliamentary dialogue. Well, here's just one example, 'cause I don't have a lot of time, and maybe I'll go out later. Sremska Kamenica, a sterilisation equipment costing 56,000 euros, was paid 350,000. The police did the job, the prosecution did the job, Judge Alimpic got a warrant and launched the process. It was taken from the judge Alimpic and returned. I cited the example for the assembly speaker, Justice Minister Malovic asked me for information, I gave it, asked for written notice and the case was withdrawn to Belgrade. Why? Because the official of the DS party, in Novi Sad, said at a ceremony in Kamenica that none of it had anything to do with it. That's the money that went into the DS cash register. Of that money you finance your campaigns, you share packages, and how much slips in your private pocket, we don't know that. You solve this problem, that's what the "Hello" newspaper said, the article is here, please come out and say I'm wrong. You're a member of the government, here's someone saying, so you're not, and of course it says who, one member of the Democratic Party. Too bad, maybe you should sue the "Alo" list that brought all this up, and here's to sue me, because I have the same criminal case that the judge had in his hands and that was returned. That's one example. If we were to go further on what is being done in public procurement homes (President: Time. If we went further, what is done in the Ministry of Health itself, at the Insurance Fund, we'd get very far. I might go out and talk about it on another amendment, but what you're doing is one really embarrassing and embarrassing thing, and you stop this, corruption, so we're going to have a far better budget situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12556	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Lazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the Government, at first I would like to express my regret that the minister of religion was present when the debate on the property tax law was held, and is not present today when the amendment is just from the work of his ministry. The amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Taxes themselves must otherwise be respected by certain legal solutions that are systemically governed by certain areas and, accordingly, we from the DSS have just submitted an amendment to Article 17. The amendment stipulates that a group of those entities that are expected not to pay taxes are introduced by both churches and religious communities registered under the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. In this case, fees would be released, as are expected to be released from fees by institutions, organisations and bodies of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, the Red Cross of Serbia, as well as foreign diplomatic and consular representations based on reciprocity, i.e. on the condition of reciprocity. The explanation which rejects this amendment is actually denying the intensity of what this amendment needs to do, which is that this legislative solution applies the Law on Church and Religious Communities adopted in 2006. The reminders work, when this law was passed as a system law, until the end of the term of office of the first government of Vojislav Kostunica, it was implemented and respected in the next 17-18 laws that were passed. In the light of the refusal of the amendment, it is said that the tax was released from the state authorities and organisations and that the list should not be extended. However, I must note that foreign diplomatic and consular representations are certainly not state bodies and organisations, so I don't see why this list would not be extended to our proposal. Neither the Red Cross of Serbia is formally considered as a state body nor an organisation, so I certainly don't think it is disputed that he found his place on the list of entities freed from paying the republican administrative tax. The law on churches and religious communities has restored and real capacity, as well as the status that churches and religious communities had in democratic societies, such as the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and yet as churches and religious communities have status in all modern democratic societies. After that, in a revolutionary society, they were forced into the status of the association of citizens, and later, if I am not mistaken, in 1993, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia abolished the law from the SFRY, and the area remained unarranged until 2006, when the Law on Churches and Religious Communities was passed. He returned it to them, churches and religious communities, the status of a public community, because they actually have a centuries-old tradition in our society. Churches and religious communities are autonomous public communities and therefore have a specific legal position. They, according to the letter of the law, may establish organisations, institutions with legal personality, as well as other legal entities referred to in Article 17. So let me get this straight. If, for example, some of the registered churches establish their publishing company, it will certainly be exempt from these registration fees, which does not mean that it will be tax-free if that activity brings a certain profit. It is possible to understand that the government, which claims to be left-wing, has a negative nihilistic attitude towards churches and religious communities, and I certainly find it unacceptable that the government denies the spirit of a system law adopted in this home. This is also a step backwards and the treatment of churches and religious communities as citizens' associations. I express my surprise that the Ministry of Faith did not actually react to the amendments in the very procedure of making this law and amended this item, in terms of the release of taxis for churches and religious communities. We have certainly also formally suggested the existence of this amendment, he showed a certain understanding, however, obviously that he did not do enough to make this amendment accepted. The law on churches and religious communities did not provide for fees. Also, in practice so far, it wasn't the case, so there's no need for them to be introduced. Even in a material sense, I believe that the income that the state would achieve in this sense would be quite insignificant and I think it represents a much more symbolic relationship between this government and the churches. Moreover, the work of the regular activities of the ministries includes keeping a register of churches and religious communities, which is not an excessively complicated, nor a materially demanding job.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12558	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12559	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, amendment to Article 17. The law on taxes submitted on behalf of the DSS by my esteemed colleague, Mr Nikola Lazic, predicts that along with that group of authorities, organisations, institutions, autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, those organisations and bodies that are designed to be released from taxis, churches and religious communities are included. What Mr. Lazic proposed is fully in line with the Constitution and it is fully in line with the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, and let me remind you, the Constitution and this Law on Churches and Religious Communities, which is a system law, and to remind myself, were brought at the time of the first government of Mr. Vojislav Kostunica. So, by the constitution of the church, they got the constitutional category, the churches became a constitutional category. So they have their own status and rank in Serbia's legal system. Secondly, since the Law on Churches and Religious Communities is a system law, it implies that all lower laws, and this set of financial laws that are like that here, are variable laws, must be brought into line with both the Constitution and the system laws that are not passed at all times. What is the problem with this article in the 17th of this tax code, what did Mr. Nikola Lazic respond to in time? The fact that this Article 17 respects neither the Constitution, nor the Law on Churches and Religious Communities, is a step backwards, and this is not the first step backwards that this government has taken with other areas in Serbia, such as the economy, such as the social and everything else, such as relations with other countries, although it has been promised quite the opposite. So these have taken a step back in this direction, which the churches have returned to the status of NGOs and citizens' associations. What Mr. Lazic noticed in his address here and what should be pointed out is that it is surprising that the Ministry of Faith and Mr. Sijakovic, who sat here a few days ago when we defended some of these laws, did not notice that practically from the jurisdiction of his law this amendment is here at all. They didn't suggest it, they didn't even notice this amendment that could fix the situation. What is interesting, Mr. Lazic suggested that Mr. Šijakovic take a look at this amendment. He agreed that the amendment is perfectly legal, that it is in line with the powers of his ministry and promised that he would personally advocate, and his ministry, that churches and religious communities should be found on the extended list, this amendment, those freed from taxi payments and which are listed here, both bodies and organisations, institutions, autonomous provinces, units of local self-government. The group also found diplomatic representations that, if they can, and probably should, and probably someone else has looked at that law, can be extended to churches and religious communities. As the minister has advocated what is obviously part of his jurisdiction, you can see, this is an amendment that has not been accepted. The question arises, on the one hand, the Ministry of Faith and the Minister of Faith absolutely do not notice what is their jurisdiction and do not advocate what is directly their jurisdiction. On the other hand, they are involved in jobs that are not their jurisdiction, such as the Patriarch's choice. This right belongs to the church, because this law on churches and religious communities is an autonomous public community, and it is its right to choose a patriarch and all the jobs of the church itself. What else is interesting and what should be mentioned? The amount that would have come from these taxis, and believe me, we've made some kind of framework plan that could have been collected, this sum is completely insignificant. She's never existed before, and there's never been a fee before. It's the first time you've offered taxes. She's insignificant. What is demonstrated by putting one insignificant sum and putting the church in this position? Two things are being demonstrated. Or the budget is really in such a state that you have to collect everything you can fit in to fill it out or demonstrate your relationship to the church. Apparently, the church proved to be an insubordinate organization and an organization that didn't want to stand behind her being imposed by a patriarch whom you chose for the life of our patriarch. So, that's the essence of the whole amendment, there's no reason not to accept it, unless you want to demonstrate haughtiness. There's no reason not to accept it. I think we should all stand up here for that amendment to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12560	Mr. Dragan Stevanović has a word. By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12561	Mr. Minister, since you are a representative of the government, I don't think the government had any rational reason not to accept this amendment by Mr. Lazic. Unfortunately, there is not a small example of how you treat the SPC, not you personally, but your government, the political concept you represent and promote. It was fully expected that, in the spirit of your political concept and ideologies, this amendment would be rejected. We would certainly support him. Now, your relationship with this amendment and everything we could read in these arguments, which unfortunately we couldn't hear from the government's representative, the debate on these laws, about the Republic of Serbia's budget, is turning into a superficial political performance, unfortunately so is a superficial political play in which only statisticians are present, and the main actor is nowhere to be present. In the principle debate here, I pointed out the fact that the state has in one way shown complete irresponsibility through this law on republican administrative fees. In this explanation, i.e. in the reasons for the adoption of the law, you say that this law is necessary by emergency procedure, because otherwise it would prevent the harmonisation of the subject matter of a tax liability with files and actions from the jurisdiction of the republican authorities and organisations for whose work the tax is paid, particularly in the light of the competences of the Republic of Serbia, which have moved to the Republic of Serbia as a state successor of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The state union is no longer how many, and since 2001 you have not treated and changed certain taxes and tariffs on this basis, or defined through this law. One objective question arises: who has not given you the right to do so in the last eight years, as your colleagues have said, in various aggregate states, government and government in the Republic of Serbia. Now you have remembered to justify in this way the fact that you are changing the Republic's administrative fees and the justification will be sought and explained for such a procedure because it is a global economic crisis, because it will be reflected on the budget and on the economic opportunities in Serbia and because it should contribute to better budgeting at a time when it will objectively be questioned. That's what I said in the principle debate, and it's not bad to repeat it, and now, some of the fees that line up at the annual level haven't changed since 2001. I read it, and I said then that you were changing it and agreeing only on an annual inflation rate level. You know how much money you'd secure on the income side. I would refer to the fees from two areas, for the time being, there will certainly be a lot of words Monday, when we continue to discuss the amendments, let's say, they are very interesting fees in areas relating to files and actions in the area of spatial planning and construction. This is one area that should be treated in this country in a serious way because you advocate European standards and European values. I think I made some conversation with Mr. Dulic, "provoked him," and he said that the state would change its relationship to this area in the next period, given that we are almost not at zero, but I don't know at any minus point. You should also know that you have the fact that, of all municipalities, valid planning documentation has barely 33 or 34 municipalities, 27 of them are in Vojvodina, which certainly qualified AP Vojvodina as advanced and ready to meet the new challenges that will be put before us economically and in any other sense. And there are only six municipalities in central Serbia. Because of this fact, the state has determined that over the next 18 months, this year and the following years, it will force all municipalities to deal with the planning documentation to create a good political, economic, economic and living environment. See how you react through taxes in this context. For example, you have here heading 167 for a solution to the requirement to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the construction of technical documentation in accordance with the law governing the construction of buildings – 15,500; or for example, heading 169, for a solution to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the execution of works under the law governing the construction of the facility – 16,500. Such amounts, even those who opted to take a normal, legal and legitimate route in the planning, design and construction process, through which they are eligible in the countries of European standards, or in EU countries, thus forcing them to flee from legal flows. It then proceeds through building permits, etc. I think you should have brought different taxes, lower, so that in this sense you would have a stimulating effect on those who were forced or obliged to pay these taxes. I would like to comment on another tax tariff very briefly tonight, and that is the writings and actions concerning the use of data from the record of the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. It is the worst state body, i.e. the most inefficient and non-eral body in the state of Serbia. I've cited examples of their ineffectiveness here. There are even some cases that have been pending for many years in the directorate. Over 800 million dinars have been allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget for the directorate this year. For example, you gave them the opportunity to charge in heading 216 fees for the preparation and conclusion of an agreement with a legal person in determining the share of state property in the means used, and that legal entity for large enterprises 73,000, for medium-sized enterprises 48,000 and for small enterprises 24,440 dinars. I think it's very bad that this is so much that it's necessary to reconsider, not so much because of the amount, but because of the fact that the right to these taxes, or these taxes, have people who have absolutely nothing to do, do not meet their obligations and who objectively represent the barrier of some good intentions, which to local self-government, which to legal persons, which to individuals who want to use certain things that are in their own country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-16-0.u12562	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have finished today's work, will continue on January 19th, Monday, at 10:00 p.m. Mr. Minister Milosavljevic, dear Mrs. Kovacevic, Mr. Ilic, thank you for your participation in the work.
