ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the third session of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Article 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if at least 126 MPs attend the session, so as to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the Parliament units of the electronic system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, 128 at this time, and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Zeljko Tomic, Milica Radovic and Mrs Biljana Korać-Hasanovic. I would also like to inform you that MP Biljana Korac-Hasanovic is at the Emergency Centre for injuries sustained during a physical attack on her. This is an opportunity to wish her a quick recovery and condemn every form of violence, both verbal and physical, as MPs. I shall inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the proposing representative, Dr Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, Mr Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, as well as Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, invited the sittings to attend: Mr Dejan Kovacevic, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Regional Development, Vesna Arsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Jelena Marjanović, Assistant Minister of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Slavica Višnić, Head of the Department of the Economy and Regional Development Ministry, Milan Dacic, Director of the Republic of Hydrometeorological Institute of Serbia, Momcilo Zivković, Director of the Agency for the Protection of the Environment, Periša Šunderić, Head of the Accounting and Telecommunications Department of the Republic of the Republic of Technology and the Republic of Slovenia, is the Republic of Slovenia's position. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I shall inform you that I have convened this session exclusively for Friday, 30 October 2009, within a period shorter than the deadline provided for in Article 84(1) and beyond the agenda set out in Article 85(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts from the proposed daily work as soon as possible. [[Applause]] This session, which was presented to you, contained a proposal for the agenda of the session, and before setting out the agenda for the session, pursuant to Article 90(5) and Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposal for an extension of the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Corridor 10 Road Project) be put on the agenda between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 October 2009 (point 1 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 132 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the validation of the Economic and Technical Cooperation Agreement in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 October 2009 (point 2 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. It's present at this point, 127. Thank you for your help in holding the session. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 21 MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, based on Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that this session be extended to a point – a bill establishing the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, as of 23 April 2009, which was submitted to the National Assembly under number 022-1584/09. Does the proposing representative, MP Slobodan Samardzic, want a word? Please, just sign in, Mr. Samardzic. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29267	The honourable MPs, the President-in-Office of the Assembly, the adoption of a law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is the constitutional obligation of this assembly, it is an obligation under the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution and the obligations laid down in Article 183. The Constitution of Serbia. All the deadlines have passed, which we have repeatedly established in this congregation, and this law has not been passed. Moreover, before the law was passed, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina established the Statute of Vojvodina, then a version of this law was created in the form of a draft by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which shows that this version of the law is in line with the Statute of Vojvodina or the Proposal for the Statute of Vojvodina. Therefore, the reverse procedure was done. Namely, the Statute of Vojvodina can determine the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina only on the basis of the Constitution of Serbia and under the Law of Determining Jurisdiction. Since months and years have passed, the DSS has given an initiative to pass this law in April of this year, and these deadlines have all passed, first of all, to make the government known about this initiative, because it has been in debt, and until today it has not done so. So, the DSS and its parliamentary club have the right to put this on the agenda regardless of what the government has not said, since its deadlines for a statement have passed. One thing further strengthened us in the belief that this should be put on the agenda of the Assembly, in addition to constitutional obligations. It is, therefore, a political atmosphere and a political disturbance created both in Belgrade and Novi Sad, and in all Serbia around this law and this statute. It is indeed necessary for the Assembly to hold a debate on the law, on the bill, to establish jurisdiction, and then to pass another law on this, it is a law on the financing of Vojvodina, which is not at all spoken of. Finally, yesterday's session, when we asked the Prime Minister about this matter, made us even more firm that this was necessary. When asked why the government has not put forward a bill on the determination of the authority of Vojvodina, the Prime Minister literally replied in the following way: "The discussion of the law on the transfer of jurisdiction is about to end, and I hope" (he hopes) "that the proposal will be considered in the coming period. ''So, 'about' closes, the president hopes for a close period. So, very specific categories regarding law-making. As far as we can see, on the basis of a statement by the Prime Minister, this law will never be passed in this House, and that is why we are putting this initiative on the agenda today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29268	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 151 MPs, 24 voted in favour. The National Assembly did not accept this proposal. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 142(2) and Article 152 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law attesting the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Cooperation between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites and Amendments to the Treaty on Cooperation between the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Does MP Vlatko Ratkovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting on a motion to merge the debate. Of the 128 MPs, 127 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We move to the agenda of the session in general. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda for urgent action, the proposal to extend the agenda and the proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 92(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Of the 128 MPs, 122 came out on the agenda. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (Corridor 10 Road Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty of Cooperation between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT) and the amendment to the Agreement on Cooperation between the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT) and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We move to item 1-3 of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE CONFORMATION OF THE CONSERVATION OF THE BOOK OF THE BOOK OF SERBIA AND OF THE INSTITUTIONAL BANK, ON THE ECONOM AND TECHNICAL ASSOCIATION OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE INSTRUCTURE BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENTAL GOVERNMENT OF SERBIA AND THE GOVERNMENTAL REPUBLIC OF KINA AND THE EUROPEAN ORGANISATION ON THE EXPLOATATION OF THE AUTHORAL SATENS AND AMAND ON THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE SUBLISHING OF THE SUBES. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and that shall be the Parliament's Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, four minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group – 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group – 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Parliamentary group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not done so so far, to file a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Jovan Nesovic – Parliament Group G17 Plus, Vladan Jeremic – SRS Parliament Group Milan Lapcevic – DSS - Vojislav Kostunica. In accordance with Article 152(3) and Article 142(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Cooperation between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites and Amendments to the Treaty on Cooperation between the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29269	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as always when I come to this high house, I am proud to present to you a few elements of these three laws. So, the loan agreement between the World Bank and the Republic of Serbia provides for the World Bank to lend 275m euros or $388m, as provided for by Article 3 of this law and the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2009. The anti-value has been determined on the basis of a rate according to which 1 euro has been changed by a $1.41 US dollar. The loan agreement in the Programme sets out one description of the Corridor 10 highway project, which provides for the use of loan funds for the implementation of the project consisting of the following components: Part A, which includes the execution of works on the construction or promotion of the road and the acquisition of equipment on the E-75 highway, on shares between Leskovec and Grdelica, Vladičino Han and Donje Neradovac in the total length of 32 km, including the construction and purchase of relevant electrical and mechanical facilities, the construction of a highway full of four traffic lanes of 3.75 metres and for a speed of 120 km per hour, the engagement of a consulting firm that will extend and provide engineering services for that project on the part of Corridor 10 in agreement with the Bank. Part B, which includes carrying out work for the purchase of equipment on the E80 highway, from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, on a section road north of Dimitrovgrad total length of 9 km, building a highway full of profile, also, with four traffic lanes and a calculated speed of 120 km per hour for both shares, relevant electrical and mechanical facilities, hiring a consulting firm that will provide engineering services to mention the programme. Part C, which focuses on increasing road safety, including: capacity building for road safety needs, including assistance for setting up a national road safety council, creating a framework on road safety results, creating and implementing a national road safety strategy, designing and managing two multi-part pilot projects on road safety and procurement and establishing a road safety database and other road safety equipment. The implementation of the project will be carried out by the company Corridor 10, a dependent business company by the company "The Ways of Serbia". The terms of the loan, which I think is most important: 1) the amount of the loan 275,2 million euros; 2) the variable interest rate with the variable interest rate, which is equal to the six-month libora minus 0,05%; 3) the access fee is 0.25% of the loan amount and is paid out of the loan funds; 4) the duration of the loan is 20 years, including 8 years starting; 5) the payment of the loan is half-year, payment dates are 15 April and 15 October; 6) the last date for withdrawal is 31 December 2015; 7) the deadline for the entry into force of the Loan Agreement is 120 days from the date of signature of the Agreement. I remind you it's the 120th day of November 9th. Excuse me, should I talk about item two right now? As for point 2, which concerns the signing of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, the agreement creates conditions for us to, and the agreement is that our sides and our two countries work together in areas of rail and road infrastructure, in the area of telecommunications and in the area of energy, we make special contracts for these areas under concrete projects and, of course, special pre-contracts. One of these contracts and pre-contracts has already been signed, i.e. a pre-contract, for this bridge located near Belgrade and which is with a car accident 1,500m long, the traffic is 21km long, and with that traffic station is 170m euros. The parties agree that the priority of international co-operation at this time is both the railway infrastructure and the bridge. A total of 170m euros were planned for the project. The agreement specifies and relations: the Chinese side participates with 85% and our side with 15%; our companies participate with 45% and the Chinese side with 55%. What's most important is that these contracts, these contracts and this agreement predict that there will be no need to apply our Public Procurement Act. So it'll be more efficient business. As far as the third law is concerned, I will be very brief, the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT) is the only organisation of that kind in Europe. It was established in 1986 by a special convention with the task of providing, for the purposes of the operational functions of the national hydrometeorological services of the Member States, permanent data on global satellite weather and climate monitoring. Operational data and EUMETSAT products, with data obtained from national meteorological and hydrometeorological networks, constitute the basic component of the hydrometeorological system of monitoring, forecasting, early announcements and warnings of meteorological, climate and hydrological extremes, disasters and disasters. As early as 2002, the government of the Republic of Yugoslavia signed a co-operation agreement with EUMETSAT, but its ratification, due to complex procedures in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, was not implemented. By signing the Amendment to the Treaty on Co-operation between the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Systems and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on 27 January 2009, the problem of retroactive settlement of financial obligations based on membership has been successfully overcome. It is also stressed that the membership of the Republic of Serbia in EUMETSAT is of paramount importance for the activities of the South East European Sub-regional Climate Change Centre, established in the composition of the Republic of Hydrometeorological Institute, as well as for the exercise of the functions of the future Regional Emergency Centre in Nis, whose establishment is foreseen by a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29270	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Who wants a word from the committee's representative, or does the committee's rapporteurs, first of all, want a word? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29271	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Gristle, Article 93. The Rules of Procedure oblige Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic to talk about the agenda point. He spoke of the World Bank as a lender by explaining the first item of the agenda, these combined discussions, and we have in the material the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Since loans are also taken from the World Bank, it would be good, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, to tell us if you're talking about this agenda item or someone else? For us, this issue is very important, certainly much more important than for the government, which practically on the last day of this period, comes to the Assembly with a agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29272	Obviously, it was a lapus, not a World Bank, but an International Bank, but if Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic wants... Mr. Carrot, if you want to answer something or is it enough what I said? We can move on. Thank you. Do any of the representatives of the motionor want a word? We're going from the smallest parliamentary groups to the largest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29273	I thank you for the objection of the MP, Mr Jovanovic. I thought he was gonna ask something smarter. So I guess all the sparrows in this country know, there are three banks that give money to Corridor 10. It is the World Bank from Washington, and two European banks, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, etc. The EBRD and the European Investment Bank. So now it's about the World Bank from Washington.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29274	Does a representative of the PUPS Group want a word? No, I don't. ) Does a representative of the Group of Minorities want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. ) According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29275	I'd like to ask the government's representative to behave in accordance with the sentence he's spoken here, showing allegedly respect for a high home. I don't think this house is high because of its ceiling, but because of the decisions it makes and the representatives of the citizens sitting here, Mr. Mrkonjic. You don't need a tie, but you need respect for elemental order. Read to us – where does the agreement you sent us mention the bank you quoted in your answer to me? Being nonchalant about very serious issues doesn't give us the right to just go through with it. So if you show respect, then show respect for the fact that you're borrowing this country now, at this particular agenda point, for another 272 million. It would be nice for you to tell us – from which banks we take this loan, because we want in a more responsible way to participate in this debate, from you, since the culmination of irresponsibility is the fact that you came on the last day of the deadline that was scheduled for 120 days and which began to run on 13 July 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29276	Do you represent, or just sign up, Mr. Mrkonjic? Okay, you won't. All right. Does a representative of the LDP Group want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29277	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, you represent the Government, and the Government has to take care of it, we respect it as an institution, we will vote in favour of all three laws. Let's start with this last one. It's time to put an end to that years-old sloppyness. This country has not been able to ratify an agreement that is very important for seven years. I am pleased that on the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, we unanimously supported the bill and thus made it possible to correct unacceptable mistakes, for which no reasonable person can show understanding. As for the other two laws, the Agreement with the Republic of China, we will support it because it is indicative, but we expect very detailed plans, so that we do not get what has happened to us in the past often – that the funds are being spent irrationally or that the funds are not even being spent, and we are paying interest because they are approved, and we do not have quality projects that are the prerequisite for their withdrawal. It goes a lot more on someone else's account than on yours, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, since you've been the minister for the last year, and, say, for years, Belgrade has been paying interest on the funds it has been granted by the World Bank, Mr. Mrkonjic, which is a bank we're not talking about today. For all of this I would point to one illogicality, which scares us, worries us, and which should be removed if we want to see that bridge beyond some animation. So we feel it is not good to sign the pre-contracts before an agreement is adopted in the Assembly. I don't doubt the good intentions and the need to do something before the deadline, you're a hero of work before the deadline, but we don't think it's good to look unserious in front of those who expect different behavior from us. I think it was important to discuss this before the pre-contract was signed. This way, I don't know what else remains for the Assembly, except to vote for this agreement, because before that, the Belgrade administration has already begun to realise this job. That bridge is needed in Belgrade. It's not in itself a dispute. What we are interested in stems from this multi-year ineffectiveness of our country – are there plans, who assumes responsibility, what are the deadlines, who will control the spending of these funds and under what conditions do we get these funds? We can't see it all in this agreement, but we don't think it's bad to get money in this situation and spend it on infrastructure – it's bad to be incompetent in this business. As for this second loan, the credit for Corridor 10, also there, Mr. Mrkonjic, with our principled support, we expect you to answer a whole series of questions, which, above all, the system that pulls this credit is inefficient. The reasons for this ineffectiveness? You can go over them and that's your right, but that's not good. All the infrastructure projects we're talking about here are infrastructure projects that have been spoken of for generations. The political circumstances in which the country was located are only a partial justification for the fact that they are still just a letter on paper. We are interested – where are the guarantees that the company that is the carrier of this business, which is from your portfolio, will be able to do this job effectively, unless an analysis of the ineffectiveness so far has been made? And, let's go first from your government, Mr. Gristle. On 13 July, the finance minister signed the agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. That day, it began to run for 120 days. We practically on the last day of that deadline – should ratify this agreement and give it the power of the law? Another irresponsibility! If it's important, and it's an important agreement, it had to be on the agenda early. We are the least responsible Members of Parliament or the Head of the Assembly. We've been ready to talk about this before. You owe us an explanation – why do we do it the last day?- I'm sorry. Why on the last day of the deadline, when you are known as the man who does everything before the deadline? It's important to us, not because of you personally, but because of the fact that we can't repeat the mistakes of the past. As for the amount of credit, it's very important and it would be good if you told us how many more credits were withdrawn, so that the whole project would be realised? We approved a debt to commercial banks half a year worth 300m euros to pay back the debts of the "putarians" that this state made in the previous period. What is the name of the company that leaves behind the debts – it is irresponsible and bad?- I'm sorry. There's got to be some responsibility for something like that. In your portfolio are mostly incompetent and inefficient enterprises, "The Railways", JAT, "The Roads of Serbia", and we would do well to see how we will make them more efficient – what is Parliament's obligation in all of this, and what is what is the government's obligation? This non-chalant run through the agenda points, the merger of meteorological satellites, the neglect of the importance of one or another institution, the identification of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with the World Bank, the ratification of the agreement after the pre-contract has been signed – all this is too unserious for the weight of business and its significance. We support these laws because we think it is necessary to do so in the country, but we do not see guarantees that these jobs will be done in a different way than all the previous ones have been done. And you need to convince, not LDP or MPs here in the Assembly, but those who give you money that you are able to spend them in the most efficient way, in order to provide more money, because we need it – not for pensions or uncontrolled public spending, not for a responsible or irresponsible state, but certainly for the development of infrastructure. If the proposal for an Agreement is analysed, it is very clear and it is encouraging. In the proposal for an Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, there are no dilemmas – it is clear how the interest rate is, it is clear how much margin there is, it is clear how the selection of companies to participate in the work will be done, how consultants will come about, effective mechanisms to fight possible corruption, and that is what is encouraging. But at the same time, we ratify the Agreement and the Republic of China, which is much shorter, which is principled and in which there is none of what we consider very important and that is in the Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Well, you have to answer the question: will the mechanisms by which the International Bank's funds for reconstruction and development will be spent be applied and the funds that we receive from the Republic of China and why is this not in this agreement, or will it be worked out by some other documents? A pre-contract signed a week ago is, in itself, encouraging, too, but he's missing, too, exactly what we're talking about right now. Given the inefficientness in spending resources that results from the fact that we cannot meet the criteria of those who lend us to do something, not to take something for ourselves or be inefficient, we are concerned. That's the topic you've been over, which you have to tell us a lot more about. I think it is important to support LDPs with these laws, not because you do not have enough MPs to vote without us, but because this is how the continuity of the business is provided, which is certainly more significant and will last longer than the mandate of a government. That's why I think you've had to work harder to get support from other opposition parties, because these agreements only make sense if they're carried out with general agreement. And you know it very well. This country has only done what we have around us in a time when it was not disputed that all those who are in power will understand and work in harmony with it. We didn't recognize that as an ambition in your performance, and it would be good if you denied us. In the end, without any desire to say anything bad about you, we think that this business is being approached by a campaign and that certainly your relationship with business does not suit his character. It is necessary to provide much more seriousness here and here in the congregation and elsewhere. This can't be the subject of one party campaign, either yours, or any LDP, or any other party, this must be our joint venture and every man's efforts in this country, in order for this job to be effectively done and finally completed, because it's been unsuccessfully working on it for too long, from today to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29278	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Does a representative of the SPS-JS Group want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the representative of the Progress Group want Serbia to speak? Yeah. ) The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29279	Before I move on to a concrete agreement, I would like to, with a few sentences, comment on the reasons for the unusual process of putting these three agreements on the agenda, but also to say that this procedure is unforeseeable by the Rules of Procedure and by the work of this body. No matter what you, the president, ignore what I say, and as far as our work is concerned, I will inform the public that we are expressing our opposition to this way of putting on the agenda of the agreement, where a session that is under way and schedules a new, without any consultation or explanation of the reason for this to happen. What's the problem? Once that happens, such a precedent becomes a rule. When exceptions become more important than rules, who will follow the rules? The proof that the exceptions became more important than the rules is the statement made by our finance minister yesterday that the tax exemptions were equally monetary, meaning what had not arrived in the budget, and it had to be, as much as collected tax. So much for the weight of exceptions. That it is when it comes to adoption, e.g. These tax laws were foreseen what financial effects of taxation and liberation might not be called an exception, but it would be the only rule of taxation. Why does it bother me this way to put it on the agenda? Because all things in this country and serious affairs such as debt for infrastructure, which we generally support, are both the subject of political abuse. I say this completely responsiblely, because as an MP in this assembly and many colleagues, who do not have to remember or give me the right, but there is extensive documentation about this, we have had the opportunity to be accused as a Assembly that because of our inadequacy is waiting for over 400m euros because of unwarranted agreements, which the MPs allegedly did not consider, such an observation was made in early 2008 at the expense of the Assembly, but it was quite clear that it was going to the opposition rather than the authorities. My colleagues who were with me in the Finance Committee will remember that I personally warned on the Finance Committee that when they delivered the loan agreement to us, which expired, would have been said in Serbian language, which means that it is a break-up condition, that is, these 120 days of entry into force, if it has expired, it is no longer a document for discussion in the Assembly, it is a paper for the waste basket. I prayed then to the Ministry of Finance that until the hearing, we would be informed by whoever was giving the loan that would extend that time limit for the use of the loan. Even so, in a pre-election campaign in all newspapers, even in statements, I am not worried about the press, I am concerned about the officials of this state, but international institutions, who, despite these facts, have accused the opposition, or the Assembly as an organ, that is what we really cannot allow, that the funds have not been withdrawn because the Assembly has not done so. The evidence is as follows: 18 agreements were delivered at the First Regular Session on 5 March 2008, which were held on 25 October. In 2007, the expiry date, i.e. the break-up conditions, was already realised. So, the possibility of the funds withdrawing under those loans has expired. If one of you thinks that I'm getting into some irrelevant detail right now, I'm just explaining that the current session has been suspended, it's made a precedent, a new one, so that this break-up condition doesn't question the use of these funds for Corridor 10. I'm asking a question now, and this time I could commend this assembly and those who are working on preparing the sessions if they didn't want us to allow us to consider worthless paper, but a contract with an current period of time – why does the government deliver this late to the Assembly to consider such a document, especially what the same parties, even the same professionals, are working there as organizers of this business, and until yesterday they worked here? And if the prime minister allows himself the luxury yesterday to praise the Assembly for its work, forgetting that the Assembly is the government's control body and executive bodies, I can only include it in the force of whoever has the budget can control him to put himself in such a privileged position, but what is even greater damage, in a position to be condemned by the public for what he is not guilty of. So if democracy is a procedure and if it is a form, please respect it and respect the Assembly. What is also a problem in this part is that in July of the month when we discussed the guarantee of funds that would be damaged by the tolls, so popularly called, we adopted the third guarantee that was adopted specifically with the "Marfin Bank" and it was already published on 17 July 2009 in the "Official Messenger". 54, therefore, discussed in the Assembly, adopted, published in "The Official Messenger", in order to appear on the cover pages in all the writings of the serious newspapers, which they consider themselves to be: ''Putari damaged because no guarantee has been adopted, the Assembly does not work, there is a month of rest! ''What worries me and hurts me is, if someone here works day-night, puts the maximum effort, physical, mental and mental, to achieve the pace imposed by the government, it's really wrong not to stand in the defense of the Assembly, which these topics and all others that he considers important, the government as the only proposing agenda, which we have seen today, simply the Assembly doesn't appreciate enough and the Assembly should be declared guilty, or opposition in the Assembly, because by 126 today it was possible to interrupt that session and start a new one. Now I wonder if we no longer have the creditors, this new government, or you, as they trusted us in the last term, when we discussed these contracts of the past term, and you are now either precise, careful, or is the problem of trust. So this is neither malignancy nor formal question, I simply wonder – can it be a normal adherence to procedure in this country, in which, when we accept certain obligations we know and to what time do we have to achieve them? What must not be a practice in this country, indeed, there are things, credits and laws that must not be subject to political abuse, regardless of what we are in the dictation of the executive government in the continuity of the pre-election campaign, so everything is mainly valorised as a political point of this party or that party, and everything is eventually brought to the budget, as a payer of interest, war, credit and all that the parties in power assume with that number 126 on behalf of the citizens. It can't be a matter of political division, but of unique performances. In that sense, I'm going to talk further about the details of this loan, where there are some things I want to comment on, and for some things, I will, for God's sake, ask a question. This is a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with which we adopted an agreement, which was published in Official Messenger No. 42, in July, on a single credit for the development of the private and financial sectors, and was worth 34m and 900,000 euros. To remind all those who have forgotten that what is not written in this loan agreement that we are considering today is written in this document and that it speaks more of our economic policy, which is directed, managed, commanding, by this lender than what is prescribed and said by the Prime Minister's Memorandum, its budget and all the other documents, including the one we are considering today. In this loan to me is the most controversial, Mr. Mrkonjic, commendation, and a period of use of credit and eight years of rest periods, so-called. The grace period, but these are general terms, so what this creditor prescribes as a condition to any credit user. And did we have to agree to adopt, through other obligations, which, I suppose, do not have others, the borrower says – that by 30 June 2010, the borrower will adopt and deliver to the Bank an action plan for the reform of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" in the form and content that the Bank considers satisfactory. Is reforming public enterprises bringing to a higher, efficient level, a managerial quality structure, above all, not privatising for privatisation, which in many cases showed poor results, a job that we will take, because on page 2, in section D, through other obligations, is prescribed by the one who gives us 275m euros? So that's the job we need to do, but not in shape and the way this lender is looking for it. The big money is 275 million that's given to us, and it's important. But what is part of 275 million euros in those billions and 300 million that this state cannot control, which it does not show in the budget and over which the Assembly has no insight, the sixth part of it? So if these billions were shown and 300 spent through the project loans of some organisational unit, what the agencies, the funds, the organisations, and not entering the budget and the state has no insight, or control that it is shown, we could not react to it, but to see what the points of unnecessary waste of money are, so maybe these 275 million would neither be needed nor should we need it on this condition. Is it us who needs supervision in every way or that we don't have the money to accept them with these, I'd say, the unfair conditions we've got? I ask the question – are you able to respect, in the programme two, through the measures of protection of C, Section B, what the lender asks you to do, to assess the environmental impact and the framework plan of migration, that they will not be (written here) modified, suspended, abolished, annulled or subject to denial, nor will they be allowed to be amended, suspended, abolished, abolished or cancelled, or subject to denial, except with prior approval of the Bank? It is not correct to accept conditions that you cannot meet. What if there's some sort of case for a part of the segregation in court? Well, if this kind of annulment, withdrawal or denial is conditioned by the independent work of a professional judge, will it be an element that will allow the loan to be suspended? It's possible, because disrespect for any element withdraws such responsibility. Interestingly, what you have generally referred to as "consultant services", i.e. in the description of the project, where Part D writes: Help with implementation and institutional support, that assistance will be provided to the contractor through delivery of goods, equipment (including vehicles), providing technical assistance and training and financing of accompanying operational costs. Does this mean the usual practice that for the money that we are subject to as a liability, goods, equipment and technical assistance provided by those businesses, industry, Member States of this international Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which through smart policy finance exports of goods and services to their countries, giving it to us, in this case, to us. Since my time is up...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29280	I thank you, especially for the reasons and arguments for the importance of today's agenda, which was precisely the reason to interrupt the course of the session and start this third. Mr Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29281	I don't know why you needed this intruder, Mrs. Dejanovic, when Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic only made our criticism of what you did. You know, the road to hell is full of good intentions! '". You are now amnesting those who have allowed the last day to arrive to decide on this contract and thus place us 250 in the position of servants of those who have missed the deadlines. We can now say that it's very important to do this within two days, but you made a agenda with 50 dots just a week ago and these dots weren't in that agenda. With the same right now, I could say that you didn't think at all how responsible that job was. So it's your fault that this wasn't on the agenda and you're not going to say it's a government mistake, you're correcting 126 MPs here to acquit everything and everything. Just miss the deadlines, so when five to twelve comes, then bring us here in front of the final act, and thank us for having so much respect for the one who doesn't do his job! Someone here hasn't done their job in time, has brought us here in a position that we have to be responsible, we represent the citizens of Serbia to whom this brings a better one, but it has to stop one day. You didn't find who was responsible, but you just found words of praise for us who agree that irresponsible people, that weak people, that people who don't think about it at all, lead us in the way they lead us. Well, that's why I don't allow you to interpret this as commendable, this is the rebuke of a fellow MP who understands very well the seriousness of the situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29282	Of course there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but if you are not satisfied with my comment and essence, and the point is that we did not want as a Assembly to be a paper that would lose any value, not to quote a letter that was more picturesque than I said. I only agreed with her, but apparently you didn't understand, Mr. Nikolic. No, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, damage to the Rules of Procedure, again?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29283	But why are you insulting me, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic? I'm specifically telling you that you understand everything and that you know very well what the government has done to the congregation. I'm not accusing you that you didn't understand seven days ago that this was coming out and that you didn't realize the importance of it being on the agenda. I'm not accusing you of anything, and you're accusing me here that I didn't understand something. I understood everything, very well, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanović! And you know very well that we understand everything here. But when we give you a criticism that has a complete argument, don't put it on personal ground, on the ground of our uneducatedness and our inexperience, our age or our youth. You have no reason to tell me that I didn't understand anything. I just asked you to understand that the deputy president of the Prosperity Group told Serbia that we are responsible people, that you put us before the final act and that we will act that way, and if we are to execute our heads to save Serbia, we will execute, but we must say who is to blame for losing our heads! So this session is absolutely irregular. We're at the third session now, not the fourth. Who interrupted the third session? What decision? What's the agenda? Did anyone ever think that a session could be scheduled in the Rules of Procedure to call one another because the government had not remembered within four months that it had sent material to the congregation? Not all of us, so we don't understand anything yet. Okay, you'll understand one day when Serbian citizens decide what anyone in this assembly understands or doesn't understand! I am very glad that the government's representative is one of the ministers from that government that was launched by the DOS on 5 October. I'm really glad, I have great respect for this man. But now you've infiltrated this group of people who've sold everything, who's spent everything...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29284	It's been two minutes. Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, that's all I said. I didn't comment on your parliamentary education, nor on your desire to have continued oversight of me as president. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure, too?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29285	Not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I used 15 minutes, so I'd like to ask you four more minutes and something, to finish my time as an authorised representative, from those 20 minutes. I spoke for 15 minutes and a few seconds. Do you mind?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29286	You know what, if fellow representatives don't mind, you did, but you're done. Since we haven't moved on to the next parliamentary group, I think we can do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29287	I'm sorry, I've made a 15-minute review of the discussion in detail, thank you. Since I know the plastic, as you say, and let me explain to you how we sometimes get worthless paper, here's to explain how you could solve the problem: the 27th government delivered you material on this agreement and you could have nicely postponed the session scheduled 21, with 53 points of the agenda, for the 26th, and scheduled a new one from these three points, in one day to finish this debate, and the 27th to begin. That's the explanation I got from Mr. Nikolic, which is why I've made an observation that the precedents of the sessions that are under way should not be done. I only have one more objection to this agreement, and I want to present it in this principle debate, and it concerns the involvement of public enterprises in this business. In addition to – Domestic competition, under point 3, there is an unacceptable definition for me: 'The public enterprises will be allowed to participate in the competition only if they can prove that they are legally and financially independent, to operate in accordance with private-legal regulations and that they are not a dependent entity of the client. ''This definition is, firstly, incorrect, because a public company that has nothing to do with the client, which is the state here, does not exist in our legal system, there are companies that carry out the activity of general interest, but are in a different ownership system. So the exclusion of public enterprises, or those in which there is a single promotion of state participation, is simply unacceptable, and, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, is not even on the line of your claim that domestic companies are doing business, because we also have domestic public enterprises in this activity. So, despite the principled commitment that each infrastructure debt is justified, and that attracting productive investment is something that the Serbian Progressive Party is committed to and will advocate, the remarks that I have made regarding the exclusion of public enterprises, the commitment of the transformation of the Public Enterprise "The Road", in the way that the Bank requires, the taking over of commitments that you are unable to guarantee, as well as the corruption of any part, I think that the reasons that this agreement makes are less good, and I am convinced that you could choose differently for them, that you have realized that the other obligations are not general obligations offered by other lenders. This is an objection which significantly reduces the quality of this Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29288	Thank you. Does the representative of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's parliamentary group want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the representative of the G17 Group want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Jovan Nesovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29289	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister and members of the Government, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, are today before us the proposals of three laws. There are two laws on the approval of the agreement, and one law is the confirmation of the contract and the amendment to the contract. As regards the first agreement, it is the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the construction of Corridor 10. I would like to say that the development of the infrastructure of a state, and in particular the development of road infrastructure in that country, is one of the most important pillars and pillars of the development of the country's economy. It is quite clear that without a developed travel network, when I say travel networks, I mean a network of highways, undeveloped rail and traffic networks, other municipal infrastructures, today we cannot attract investors in the world. If we don't have investors, there's no new production, there's no new jobs, and that's the problem in the state of Serbia right now. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has formed the National Council for Infrastructure Development. The priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period is complete construction and completion of Corridor 10, construction of the Kragujevac-Batocin highway, construction of Belgrade highway - Cačak - the Montenegrin border and merger with the highway from Montenegro. In particular, it seems to me, at this point, important to build highways at a time of economic crisis, because we favour certain credit arrangements, because our economy at that moment, the civil operation, has work to do, we employ people, and that means improving the liquidity of our construction companies, and that means the entire economy. The minister knows much better than I do, that at a time of crisis and the cost of performing the work is much lower, for one simple reason, which is that there is no fresh capital and there is not enough work and therefore the contractors always give a few tenths of the price of the same work during the economic crisis, rather than when the normal conditions are. That means we can do a lot more with less money. As for Corridor 10 itself, I think it's important to say that Corridor 10 is defined as one of the pan-European corridors within the trans-European travel network. Corridor 10 is the most significant direction defined in the country's road economy development strategy and other infrastructures for the period from 2008 to 2015. Corridor 10 is a route from Budapest to Belgrade, from Belgrade to Nis and branches in two arms, one towards Sofia, the other towards the Macedonian border and about 800km of Corridor 10 passes through the state of Serbia. Unfortunately, today, 300 kilometers of Corridor 10 has not been done and it is a pity that in 2009, we have an unofficial 300km of Corridor 10. In order not to lose international traffic going to Corridor 10, it is important that this is completed as soon as possible and I am absolutely sure that the government plan of the Republic of Serbia will be achieved that this will end by 2012-2013. One more thing to say, since Corridor 10 has not finished "Serbia's Ways" have not had enough revenue because we do not charge the toll that we would very well charge, because the annual revenue "The Way of Serbia" on this part of which toll is about 17 billion dinars, and that is the biggest revenue that the "Puts" have in the budget of the JP "Serb Roads" today. As for the loan itself, it envisions the withdrawal of 275m euros and has been deployed into four parts. Two parts are important for construction, these are projects A and B, it's building highways from Leskovec to Grdelica, as well as between Vladic's Han and Donji Neradovec and the length of that part is 32 kilometers, and the other part of the highway that will be built is from Nis towards Dimitrovgrad and it's a 9km section. What is important, the construction defines that the speed on that part of the highway is 120km, four strips of 3.75m wide. Also, the project provides for all other auxiliary facilities that are important for the operation of the highway, such as electrical and mechanical facilities, toll charges, access to traffic and local roads that are included on the highway. Normally, in order to achieve the quality of the highway, because, frankly, we have to accept the technology of others who are stronger than us, it is defined to provide consulting services in the engineering business, so in the business of doing the work itself. The third component is also important for the state of Serbia, because we keep talking about traffic safety, we keep talking about something that's happening on our roads, that we have a lot of car accidents where people die, so it's about traffic safety. It also provides assistance to establish a national traffic security council, develop a traffic safety study, as well as to develop multi-work projects in which it will be shown in a picturesque way that road economy can improve traffic safety and other activities defined in the contract itself. The third component is to raise the capacity of our company that deals with the construction of Corridor 10, which is Corridor 10 D.O.O.O., because the state itself said that the construction of highways is an important business and that is why a company is formed that will only deal with these businesses. It is defined that a study and implementation of the action plan for Serbia's reform company will be carried out, because "Serb Roads" really need to have reform, so that we don't get into the situation where we were recently, we have big debts, we still don't have a safety study, everything that's important for a modern company, and also, to define certain things that are related to the social aspect of the whole programme, the environmental aspect of the whole programme and all that goes in good quality, to get one highway that meets all international standards that are currently in the world. What we have to say is, the interest rate is very favourable, it's a six-month library minus 0.5%. This is the most favourable thing on the international world market today. The payment deadline is 20 years, eight years of grace period, just to start charging the toll on that part that's being built, we can refinance this loan. The withdrawal date is December 31st, 2005. I also want to say a few words about all the loans that are withdrawn today in Serbia. Many times these loans happen and do not retreat in the time in which they are scheduled. I hope, as far as this loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is concerned, believing in the capacity of the Ministry of Infrastructure and JP "Serb Roads", Corridor 10, and that the state is behind this project, and I know that the project documentation has already been done, I think there is little problem with land expropriation, that this loan will be withdrawn very quickly and that there will be no waiting for the last date defined in the contract, and that we will spend the money, which means building up the intended portion of Corridor 10. As regards the second agreement, the Economic and Technical Co-operation Agreement in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of China, it is one general agreement, i.e. a roof agreement from which concrete projects are to be defined between companies, businesses and the state, the Republic of Serbia and China. What has been proclaimed in the foreign policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that China is one of our stronger political friends in the world. Finally, that is also said by the president of the country, that we in foreign policy will rely on some four pillars, which is the EU, America, Russia and China. Despite this political co-operation that's on the rise line, I think there's room for economic co-operation, too, for it to be even better. We are fully aware that at this point we are importing much more from China than we are exporting to China, and these are billions of dollars of imbalances between these two economies, but we must admit that China today is a world workshop where all multinational companies have their own facilities, or their own companies, and therefore we import a lot from China. As a state, we cannot compare ourselves to China by the number of inhabitants, by the surface, or by the strength of the economy, but we need to know that in the last few decades, or several decades, China has had almost the largest economic growth in the world. So, we need to use all the positive experiences of China to form industrial zones, to form infrastructure, to develop some aspects of the economy, to attract foreign investment, simply, to do something that China has done, and to really reduce unemployment in Serbia, to improve infrastructure and all that is important for the development of a country. What is also defined in the Agreement is that it is based on the principles of solidarity, reciprocity, complementarity and mutual respect for sovereignty, in accordance with their domestic legislation and provisions of this Agreement. Article 2 has been defined and precisely numbered in which areas China and Serbia can co-operate. These are projects related to infrastructure, construction and reconstruction projects, also infrastructure facilities, technical assistance, staff training for development plans, machine procurement, equipment and all that is important for our country. Article 3 has been defined to be in charge of monitoring this agreement: the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, on the Serbian side, or the Ministry of Trade, on the Chinese side. Article 4 states that individual activities of the general part of the agreement will be realised through the regulation of other agreements and contracts that are important for the construction of certain facilities, i.e. for investment. So this is a roof agreement, and all other contracts and agreements will have special contracts and agreements to define these things that will be agreed on at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of China. It is clear that a pre-contract has already been made and this is the pre-contract on the construction of the Zemun Bridge – Borča, with the Chinese company "Cina road and bridge construction". The bridge is projected to be 1,500 metres long with a 20km of access to traffic. It is fully defined to cost around 170m euros. Of this, the Chinese side, or "Exim Bank", will provide, under very favourable conditions, at least what was written in the press, which is 3% on the annual level of interest, three years of grace periods and 15 years of payment, 145.5 million, and the Republic of Serbia will provide 25.5 million. It is important to point out how important this infrastructure project is, because it will relieve traffic in several Belgrade municipalities, it seems to me throughout Belgrade, connects Belgrade with the southern Banat and continues its regional direction towards Romania and ultimately opens up a new space for development and construction, which I think is very important. It seems to me, what was dragged into the press, that it was defined that in the construction of this bridge 45% of the total value would be spent material from the domestic market, and I think it was something that was very much taken into account when it was negotiated with the Chinese side. As for the ratification of the Treaty on the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellite, unfortunately this contract was signed in 2002, not ratified, and in 2008 the Government of the Republic of Serbia had nothing but to simply sign the amendment in order to get back to the beginning, because we needed it, and went back into ratification to take advantage of what is given us as a possibility, firstly, as associated members, and later as permanent members, I hope for five years, as prescribed by the Treaty itself. I think it is also the interest of the Serbian state, which has declared that its interest is integration into the EU, and this is one step in integration towards the EU. It is also important to point out that we as an associated member, when we ratify this in the Assembly, we become an associate member, and we use all those benefits that are defined by this Treaty, and these benefits apply to the area of meteorology, hydrology, environmental protection, so we can use EU-funded projects for all these jobs. We have regional co-operation, exchange of databases, transfer of knowledge, then, technological and technical co-operation in satellite measurement and all that's important for forecasting in meteorology that we can track and climate change and, God forbid, some accidents that can occur due to elemental disasters, so we'll be better able to plan and better prepare, because we'll be able to freely exchange data. What is important, the competent authority for the realisation of this contract is the Republic Hydrometeorological Institute, an institution that really represents a strong institution in Serbia and the region and will certainly be stronger in the coming period. Finally, looking at all of this, both this agreement and this agreement that we are to ratify today, it seems to me that it is very important – these first two for the development of our infrastructure, for the better quality of transport of people and goods, and this third contract, that we are simply slowly approaching the EU meteorology as well. As for the G17 plus we will support in the voting day these three agreements and I hope that other parliamentary groups will do the same. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29290	Thank you, Mr. Nesovic. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic, on behalf of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a good thing that at the beginning of the session we resolved this little doubt that appeared, and about who actually financed the completion of Project Corridor 10, given that we were recently able to get acquainted with the fact that Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and the President of the European Investment Bank, Filip Majstad, signed a contract to close the structure. Minister Mrkonjic announced that a loan from the Russian Federation would be used for Corridor 10, and here, today we are discussing the agreement, a loan with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, so I was a little afraid that it would not accidentally finance the project more times, but I say, the most important thing is that it is something. If in these past ten years, as long as the story of Project Corridor 10 has lasted, at least one stone has moved, instead of just talking, it would probably be over by now. When you have data that the external debt has increased by 84m euros per year, while the growth of the internal debt is above all due to the increased needs of the pension fund by 582m euros compared to last September, it is very ungrateful to discuss the proposal for one such law, therefore, to confirm a new loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and, this time, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which refers to an undisputed capital project for this country as the construction of Corridor 10. I must point out that the representatives of the authorities have finally respected the arguments of the representatives of the SRS, so that these funds from this arrangement will be directed to the infrastructure where they should have done so before, because it is obvious that a lot of time and money has been spent so far in the wrong direction, so I am concerned that this project too of national interest, as it is said, could be left without those real effects that could have caused the timely work to be done and completed. For the sake of the public, I will remind myself that the government in Serbia is the largest part of the loan, instead of precisely investment projects in infrastructure building, aimed at spending, i.e. at relieving these current commitments of the budget, primarily wages and pensions, so it was clear to anyone who had little understanding in the economy that there was nothing from some increase in economic activity. I am saying this because the realization of this project has announced and the employment of more people, these are the public works that the SRS has also indicated as necessary and to get out of this rather invisible economic situation in which the state is located. However, I say, the problem is that over the past years it has not been done properly, so we have come into a position that we have total external debt covering the debt of the public and private sector of around 22 billion euros, that a third of that debt applies to government and state-guaranteed debt, while the debts of banks and businesses remain. The state is under the obligation to regularly serve external debt according to established dynamics to all creditors and to both international financial institutions and Paris and the London Club, bilateral and other lenders. Among other things, it is official data that can be seen on the National Bank of Serbia Site, as only by the end of this current 2009 should the total foreign debt be paid off by 2.78 billion euros in principal and 457m euros in interest. So, the overall policy of easy-to-loan credit has led to the fact that external debt has been doubled from 2000 to now, and if, as a parameter, the ratio of the liabilities paid on the basis of external debt to the value of goods and services, it crosses 25%, and it simply has to be established and there is no doubt that we, unfortunately, belong to the high-indebted countries. And the fact that we became a country of absurdity, in which, let's say, the prime minister explained yesterday that the funds from this latest IMF credit arrangement will not be spent is probably in the category of "believe it or not". However, to return to reality, therefore, one of Serbia's largest development projects, the construction of the Pan-European Corridor 10, has for many years caused numerous controversy and opposition to the views of both past and current authorities, while in public it has been a project of great importance that is being worked around and in which much investment is needed. Besides, it's also the subject of this long finding today, so this new loan agreement. However, I say again that a little more has been done instead of talking probably the Corridor 10 Project itself would have been more important, because Serbia, according to certain plans and wishes, should have earned a considerable amount of money that the project had been completed until the Olympic Games were held in Athens. It is known that this has not come to an end, some still do, but it is evident that the whole story is followed by permanent delays and shifts of deadlines for completion of works, while there are still no concrete observations and agreements on the highway from the Hungarian border to Belgrade, to Nis and to the border with Macedonia. According to such estimates, we've lost a lot as a state. Some say it's worth billions of dollars. Of course, both current and previous authorities are responsible for this situation, given that there is currently no direct highway from Western Europe to Greece further east, but that these alternative traffic stations are being used, it speaks sufficiently of the importance of the Corridor. By modernising and restoring our traffic infrastructure, in a correct way, you would solve the problem of the so-called 'Balkan Narrow Throat' for those who are using this particular direction. So the time would be cut short and the costs of transportation and travel would be reduced. It is also important to know that Corridor 10 is not only a multimodal road-rail corridor, but, as we pointed out on several occasions, a chance for the economic and general development of the country, because by reviving this direction it would actually encourage the development and integration of road and rail networks, as well as businesses in countries in the region. It is known that eight states are connected in its main direction through Corridor 10, starting from Salzburg to Thessaloniki, including six other states in short, and that from the total length of that road traffic station, which is over 2,350 km, it passes through Serbia about 800 km. In addition to roads, the work on the Corridor 10 project, as I mentioned earlier, implies building following high standard facilities, starting from modern border crossings, to motels, gas stations, shops, etc. According to spatial plans, another 48 resorts are expected to be built along with the existing 31 resorts, with the exception of 39, another 60 petrol stations being built on Corridor 10 and another 40 models made with 20 existing ones. That's why I initially expressed concern that the effects of what can bring about the completion of this Corridor 10 project will be significantly lower, because all deadlines have been broken long ago. I'll just remind you of a statement issued by a representative of this regime, former Serbia's Transport and Telecommunications Minister Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, that the work on the Corridor 10 highway will be completed in 2004, except for the part of the road in the Grdelička clisur, which should be completed in 2005 or 2006. We then had representatives of the Greek foreign ministry in the whole story, which, on the basis of the, uh, Helenik plan for the southern arms of Corridor through Serbia, envisioned some 250m euros. But then, Greek Foreign Minister Andreas Loverdos, according to some media, said Corridor 10 would not be completed for many years, which, unfortunately, remains accurate. There have been various excuses, calls for justifications, for the slowness and delay in the implementation of this project, so we were faced with the fact that most of the shares of Corridor 10 had no project documentation at all, so according to government representatives, we had poor projects that were not in line with EU standards, so it took a year and more to correct the old projects for Corridor 10. It all led us to where it led us. The problem, potential for the state of Serbia, related to Corridor 10, can be a fact, given that the international community does not know this category of love in the economy that eventually approaches and develops certain parallel projects that could, in some ways, bypass Serbia in the whole story, and even so far the international community's actions, or above all the EU, have not been too sincere, nor are they promising much, and I am thinking of this gap over the defrosting of the Transition Trade Agreement, and then, Serbia's accession to the Schengen White List, etc. You can see that there are some things that are under question. One of these two projects, which could have certain consequences for the State, i.e. on the effects of Corridor 10, is this possibility of building these alternative corridors that would possibly replace Corridors 7 and 10. It's about what happened. The project "Oco", i.e. by building Corridor 4, Corridor 5C and Corridor 8, which would completely bypass Serbia. In fact, rail corridors 10 and 4 are competitive corridors, and this corridor 4 seems to have at this time and in this consolidation forces are better cards in hand, as all the countries through which EU members - the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece are going through, and it is clear that they are being engaged to a considerable extent by the European institutions. This 5C corridor is a branch of Corridor 5 and it passes through Hungary, Croatia, BiH and again Croatia. In addition to being rail corridors, it is also a river, road, air corridor connecting Central and South Europe, while Corridor 8 departs from the Albanian town of Dures, via Macedonia, to the Bulgarian city of Varna. The corridor will connect Europe with Central Asia and the Caucasus through Bulgarian ports, and Albania and Turkey have the biggest interest in building this corridor, as well as Bulgaria. The point of merger of Corridors 8 and 4 is Sofia, and Corridor 4 and 5C Adriatic Sea. By all accounts, the Belgrade government should be significantly less interested in day-to-day sensations, political marketing and populism, as it is clear that the world sees these things differently. It is therefore very important that this corridor 10, which I repeat once again is truly of national interest, be completed as soon as possible or at least before the highway to this corridor 4 is built in Romania and Bulgaria, i.e. the competitive direction of Corridor 10 through Serbia, which I warn once more, takes over transit traffic to the Middle East. According to some of the indicators we have come to, it is clear that this business around Corridor 10 can be divided into three segments: what has been built so far, what is under construction and what is planned as the finalisation of the project itself. There's a lot of work to do. With this agreement, I hope that you have managed to finally and fully close the financial structure, and that what has been announced by the Ministry, which is headed by Mr Mr Mrkonjic, and even as a view of the Government, that the works on the construction of this road network will be completed by the end of 2012, and that the projections of the construction and modernisation of railway Corridor 10, if I am not mistaken, will reach some four years later. It is about major projects, as both modernising and building this area needs a little less than five billion euros. It is clear that this government or the next one that will be able to properly close this financial structure, in order for this job to be completed. Also, I just wanted to point out the need for a much better treatment of this corridor 7, whose basic route is the Danube River, and I think it's absolutely part of this story, because you know that water traffic is also the most economical type of transport, the safest and most favourable from the point of view and the environment. Also, you know that in a number of Western European countries, this type of transport is about 43% of total transport, while in Serbia it is defeating that the percentage is only 4.7%, and that there is the potential of our country, if nothing else, those 1,688km of inland waterways, of which 600km of them on the Danube River, which is sailed throughout Serbia, etc. As far as the SRS is concerned, I've been mostly talking about this on the first item of the agenda, but you know very well about the attitude in projects of national interest. The Serbian Radical Party, in doing so, is thinking primarily of confirming the Agreement on Economic and Technical Co-operation in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. We have shown this in good time as a need to establish proper co-operation with one such, first of all, economic giants and that there will be much more favourable conditions for co-operation than the European Investment Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the IMF etc. I thank you for your attention, and later on in this debate, my colleagues will give you an even more complete understanding of the views of the SRS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29292	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29293	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the DHSS, I will vote in favour of these three proposed laws, although one has concluded the pre-existing state, and only now is it ratified. The contract with China does not have the elements of a contract with the position of the Law on Liaison Relations, it is more a letter of intent, but it is good intentions, and this loan agreement, Mr. Minister, is with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, not with the World Bank based in Washington, because it would turn out to be defending some other law that is not on the agenda, but I understand that it is also a lapus. I hope that, too, when it comes to Corridor 10 and the loan we receive for the construction of Corridor 10, this time everything about this construction will be transparent, that the spending of funds from the loan will be transparent, that the contractors will be transparent, that it will no longer be Podkin's way and Podkin's construction, like that time from "Horgosha to nowhere" and that the whole public will have insight into everything that is about the road that really is "the breadth of the house" for this country. When I mention it, I have to draw attention to something else, something that doesn't concern this time, but I hope that with the application of some other laws and by responding to some other ministries, it will contribute to the pathways and travel in this country being at the level of some European standards. What's this about? The DHS and its board in Sombor launched an initiative to collect tolls in part from Vrbasa to Novi Sad and to place Serbian citizens from the Western District in an unequal position, as they pay a toll that has been translated into a kilometer of dinars, and for those travelling from Saturday to Novi Sad, it is about 3.5 dinars, which is about equivalent for using Belgrade-Nish highways. I must express my satisfaction that the presidents of Sombor, Kula, Apatin and Odzak municipalities have accepted this initiative DHS, as well as the Chamber of Commerce and all MPs and all parliamentary groups will have their joint conclusion with a request that this injustice be corrected. You'll get the same as the Resort Minister. It really doesn't make sense to put citizens in an unequal position. Whether these funds will return, do not need them and it is impossible to return them to citizens, users of road services, but it seems to me that some of the funds should be given to build local roads on the territory of these four municipalities. It'd be fair. Also, Mr. Minister, I wonder, it's something beyond this context, why do you even charge toll on the Novi Sad – Subotica route, when it's not the highway and what are the privileges of citizens using that highway, except it's extremely risky, but it's not the highway? I have something else, I don't want to abuse time, but I'm going to mention some things that have become fragrant and you need to be interested in. I was informed that Serbia's roads are currently circulating 20,000 vehicles with a steering wheel on the right. Well, you have taxi drivers all over Belgrade and then passengers get under other vehicles! Of course, it's not these people's fault, but let's get this done. On the way to Ibarska Masteral, you can't even go left-hand, let alone the one who has to go out across the front of his vehicle to see if he can outrun anyone. They're potential killers on the way! They say it's not expensive to move the steering wheel to the left, it's about 500-600 euros, but that's what states should be dealing with, not those people who are allowed to import or buy those vehicles. This is purely a reminder, it has nothing to do with you, but in some ways it has, as well as a reminder of a complete Javilu when it comes to registration of motor vehicles, 90 percent of motor vehicles and does not go to service and do not carry out their checks, as well as the issue of medical examinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29294	Mr Velimir Ilic, representative of his parliamentary group, and then we end this round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29295	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I am very sorry that this law has not come into consideration before and that this issue has been resolved during the construction season, because it was possible to significantly speed up the construction of Corridor 10. I support, like all of us, the construction of Corridor 10, and I find it very ugly when someone comments that the previous years in some previous governments have not been the corridors of 10. It is not true, a 24 km full profile of the highway from Leskovec to the plastic loop and from Nis to Niski Banja, 20 km and a few kilometers. It's the only highway that has immediately received and used permission and all the papers complete, and I'm glad it's over and should continue. But it must be built faster, faster means to provide, faster to work, because we have very many kilometers to build, and here, this government has already spent two construction seasons, and we need to speed up this construction process and we are behind it. That is why it would be very good to now in Moscow at the Ministerial Conference of Transport of Europe, which will be discussed in a few days, one issue that we have in some previous government, which is that Belgrade - South Adriatic - is declared to be the short of Corridor 10, which was done with Nis-Dimitrovgrad and has moved to Corridor 10. That's an extremely important question. Why? It is strategically important for Serbia's traffic, Corridor 10, but the most important road in Serbia is Belgrade -- the southern Adriatic, because the entire maritime traffic development strategy is related to the port of Bar, as well as to the road and rail construction of the Belgrade-Bar railway line. That is why it is extremely important to launch the initiative. The Italian government supports this initiative, with all its heart, because they want to use Southeast Europe and Central Europe towards the Bar, and transfer traffic. They make whole platforms for rail traffic Bar – Bari, so they are extremely interested. I've been to Rome several times in these conversations, they're interested and they'll back it up. Now they're going to support Montenegro, because they're going to build a highway from Bolar to Bar, so we have a big chance. This was already on the agenda, but the war and the bombing prevented it, so it was taken off the agenda. We've been trying to get back into the game, because just by coming in to be part of Corridor 10, we're getting considerably more funds, longer credit lines, great benefits, and the only way to build it when this concession is shut down. That's why, when we made the concession, we tied this part of Horgos – Belgrade to be a link to looking for funds for Corridor 10, although it was part of Corridor 10, because at that moment it was extremely important for Serbia. Please, now in Moscow, at this ministerial conference, you're lobbying, you're talking. Especially at the time, the Italians, unanimously, wanted to support our initiative in the EU too – to merge that part and to have Corridor 10 that would have three arms through Serbia: one according to Dimitrovgrad, one towards Thessaloniki and one towards the Bar, so that we could get those benefits. That's very important. I don't think the current government has enough understanding for corridors 10. Yesterday we heard a discussion of the Presevo MPs who spoke here that not all conditions were met and for this part that had been completed and opened, that there should be a lot more small jobs to be done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the European Bank, the World Bank, is lending to build a road, and we need to solve the expropriation, we need to solve the project documentation, we need to solve a series of other projects. And, somehow, there's always something in the past years, we'd have done a lot more Corridor, but the NIP didn't adequately track us with the resources we needed, and that's why there's been a stalemate in building all of this. We created conditions, especially for Nis – Dimitrovgrad, by reconstructing the Sitician ravine, the tunnel, so that significant traffic can be speeded up while the highway is being built and used. But I'm asking you to talk to your co-workers in the government, because it's impossible for the NIP not to follow and that budgets are not being followed by a certain percentage that is necessary for the credit lines to be used. That is why we now have credit lines in Serbia that are completely passive and banks come into a situation to withdraw funds because they are not used. An example of this is "Gazela", as well as a number of other projects being carried out in Serbia, where we did not adequately monitor certain investments. We had the same case regarding the project documentation for the Beška Bridge, which is why there were great delays and big problems, because there is no understanding for these extremely large and significant projects for Serbia. I'm saying, so you don't repeat the mistakes of the previous governments, because there were constant promises. One more thing that's very important, I see you're looking for funds to cover the budget deficit by the end of the year, credit lines, etc. All "roads" debts were created by the lack of funds and the entire budget deficit broke on Serbia's roads at the end of the year, which is why they were losses. It needs to be very correct. I have written statements from Mirko Cvetkovic, today's prime minister, who spoke several times as finance minister. So no one, there, took anything and took it home, but when there's no money in the budget, they can't cut pensions, they can't pay the educators, the police, the military, and then they say, "take" the "puters," so we'll give them next year. The next year a new minister comes in and says -- no idea, it's a short budget again, there's no funding again, and that's how problems are made from year to year. The state has to stand behind the Corridor completely, more are foreigners and their banks than we are. That's a big problem. The funds for corridors we could take as much as we wanted, to make corridors, and to inject fresh money into the travel economy, but we were not able to track our share of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia should provide, and it was an extremely ugly situation when we could not follow certain projects. Now you're trying to work on the part of Belgrade -- the southern Adriatic, projects have been done, everything is done, everything is settled, property-legal relations, the route has been marked, but it should be paid to the peasants and there is a basic problem. No one will allow you to enter the property and use a certain route for the purposes necessary, for drilling, for testing, for everything that follows geology and everything else, because you have to pay them, they sow corn and wheat and will not allow you to enter their plot. Therefore, there would have to be a lot of bills. The second thing, I'd like to ask you to make sure that the credit lines that are coming from the side, I read that the grace periods are extremely short, and the grace period must be at least while the highway is being built, and secondly, that there are no credit lines for the highway in ten years' payoffs. It's not any credit lines and it's technically impossible to take, pay off, and then we question the budget that in eight to ten years we have budget problems in the state. These are very unfavourable loans, especially for such construction systems as highways. So these credit lines are out of the question, if the World Bank, the IBRD, and the other banks follow with significantly more favourable credit lines, and there's no shame in getting into concessions. I don't know why you're running away from the concession. Concessions are today the way and model of building highways in the world and at least one part of the highway should be given to concessions, and especially this part of Belgrade towards the southern Adriatic which is extremely financially profitable; concessionaries will be kidnapped to come to build it, benefits are extremely large, because the number of vehicles is extremely large and meets the criteria necessary for the highway. So speed up the process. Now the paperwork is already being prepared for the next credit line so it doesn't wait until after, so we don't have to be in stasis and we can finish it on time. One more thing, please stick to the Traffic Development Strategy, which was adopted in this House, and the Space Plan of Serbia. It is extremely ugly for me when someone comes to this Serbia, and especially when they come to Parliament and they say easily that another path that is nowhere in the Space Plan at all, we have expert teams, we know that the problem is Belgrade – the southern Adriatic, whether it will go the golden variant or variant over Sandzak. That's two possibilities. One is somewhat shorter and cheaper, but we have then formed expert teams to work out and see which variant for Serbia is better and more acceptable. There can't be a statesman coming in right now and saying there's going to be a difference. There's nothing we can do that doesn't approve of our institutions and that doesn't go through a normal procedure. Let the profession stand behind it and let it say: this is better, this is more favourable, this will pull more traffic, this is more important for Serbia and we will all support it, and it will not be a political highway (where a particular policy is being led in the government... ) and, now, if we need Zika, Pera, to support us, we'll go to his variant – so we won't be able to build, so someone else will come and change the course and then we'll bring the citizens themselves into doubt what we really want. That's why it's very important for the waist to say its own. Idea projects and one and another variants have been made. It will be put on the table, complete documentation will be developed, see how it is withdrawn, buys traffic, which will be the volume of traffic, which are cities, which are regions, because where the highway passes, the region will certainly have an expansion in its development. But no matter where it is or which variant is chosen, we will sideline these other regions with the existing highway, and surely we will not leave them in some seal, but we will bring them back to the game to be included in the highway itself. Basically, you need to back this up. One MP said the Chinese loan was undefined. It needs to be defined, who works, how it works, not to be in a situation where performers come from, no matter how much they participate, to slow down our work. We have labour forces, here, I see Dejan Kovacevic. We've got the Bridge to resuscitate. It's just that she doesn't come to life, that we have some firms coming to the Bridge once so minor that they couldn't even be subcontractors of the tenth order, that they're coming now to be business carriers, etc. We need to resuscitate our companies, get them back in the game and support this whole thing. For this bridge there are credit lines extremely favourable to the World Bank, the IBRD, the European Investment Bank, and why run away from it? We don't have to go on Chinese credit at all costs, if he's unfavourable. It should be well analysed, seen which way, what kind of credit line it is, what participation of the workforce is, and especially the involvement of the material in the construction of the bridge. We're interested in domestic materials. It really doesn't make sense that someone is importing stone from the side, importing what's basic, importing cement or steel into Serbia and building a bridge, if we have it all on our own here. That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29296	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. I would like to inform you that according to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search, were submitted by the SNS, DSS and SRS parliamentary groups in writing. I give my word to Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29297	Now I'm going to specify a story about a project of a borrowing agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. They are completely unjustly criticising Mr. Mrkonjic from whom this loan is from. Whether it's a formal International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank or the IMF, it's actually the same package. These are the only institutions through which certain projects and purposes are financed: the IMF is doing this for the stability of the monetary system and employment, which our own are forgetting here, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, just like this type of project and for the development of the private and financial sector. I am really doing this for factual reasons, not for any reason or obligation to defend Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, who, by the way, is Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, has good friends in the World Bank; for example, your friend is Mr. Caesaro Kuarosa, one of the chief infrastructure managers, I am counting on you to know these connections in the interests of our country. Milutin Mrkonjic, from the scene: Thank you. ) What is a problem, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and I have not commended you now in order to criticize you, I must say that you have made us a legal failure in proposing this law. All MPs have an act of the bill, with an accompanying letter, where on the last page, the evaluation of the amount of financial resources to implement the law writes one sentence: "... The funds will be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget." This act carries a date, we've already established it, October 27th. Mr Mr Mrkonjic, you are not the minister who should do this, but your associates should know that we have adopted the Budgetary System Act, which the Minister is proud of, and I would be even more proud that there are more amendments to the Serbian Progressive Party, which would allow better control of the funds, so in July of the 17th month, the Law was published and entered into force, where Article 48 states: "The interpretation of the law or other regulations of the Government or the competent authority", and then to the Assembly, "It must contain an assessment of the financial effects and data on whether the proposed law or other regulation increases or reduce budget revenues or expenditures for the next two fiscal years", even though the grace period is eight years. So, with this law, one list of total responsibilities should be delivered, not that we, colleagues, check each other out – and how much did we owe ourselves to new loans? They had to deliver this to you from the Ministry of Finance, the Public Debt Administration, with an estimate, because twice a year interest is paid, which are currently favourable, so that we can see what's in this budget – a repayment plan. As I do not expect you to know the exact figures at this time, what will my colleague, Mr Bozidar Delic, speak of cost prices, individually, of all these shares, but we need to know what the plan for the 275,000 euros we are now taking, in terms of cost, in this and in the next two budget years? What does this law serve, like any other, if it is not respected? I'm less worried that you didn't give the interest payment plan here, but I'm worried – how will those funds, which are not controlled, and by this law that gives enough opportunities, if it isn't applied? It is a basic requirement – that the one who passed the law, therefore, first it shows that this law is true, and that is why I want to comment specifically now, means, in the area for which I am in charge, which is finance, in this way and comment, only this one of the three laws, because he has this analysis of the conditionality of the money that is given and the cost. Very inappropriately, since the arrival of Russian President Medvedev in our country and this parliament, and from the story that we will get one billion dollars from Russia, it was the first euro, so the dollars, out of which 200,000 will be the support of the budget, and 800,000 for concrete infrastructure projects, which we support, so suddenly the story is raised that these loans from the World Bank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development are so favourable, and for the Russian credit we do not know at all what the price is, that this is such a scale that we have a direct transfer of negotiations for the last two days – did the Russian side come up with the price of these more favourable terms, as they promised? Have you ever, in this country, asked all fellow MPs and citizens, heard that some international credit was under such a bang of public attention and under such attention? And because there was no one, and this one is, so I am obliged by critics of the Russian loan to remind them of what loans the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development gives. So, I'm going to talk about the conditionality to give these loans and their price. So, I resent you, Mr. Mrkonjic, as a man who has years of experience in infrastructure and friends in such organs, for not fighting to keep them out of what we're going to do with the company Public Paths. So it is said, for example, in an analysis by the World Bank, in a project called "How to Do Less" delivered to our government, and it is expected to be the basis for what the IMF will condition for giving money to the public company "The Ways of Serbia" – so that their financial situation can be improved by increasing revenues, and now they suggest, by increasing the share of excises on fuel or toll revenues, which they consider unlikely, if not impossible and counseling the suspension of regional roads, which they say has been done over time. I'm asking you not to build this organisationally on these principles, and I don't know what kind of, but the transformation of public roads. I ask you to make sure that this member who speaks – about the purchase of goods and about certain procurement procedures, even if they explain more precisely to you, and you will probably be able to fight for the participation of domestic goods and performers. So, on page 32 of Section B, it says in individual procurement procedures – that, in fact, the International Competition, unless in Section 2 below, it is otherwise specified, ''the purchase of goods and works will take place on the basis of contracts awarded in accordance with the procedures of the International Competition. '"I did not manage to expose it in this material except for the International Competition. I really think that what we're all talking about, and so are you, that it's a shame to have an entrepreneur appear, conditionally said "executor," in some business, some big world name, someone who has a shortcut to this kind of organization, and then as concrete performers actually show up to our companies, who buy crumbs in these kinds of jobs. And it's not just a case in this kind of business. You have this in most cases of public procurement, where someone who has and who is able to rent a political friendship, and I won't say how they got it, we're all imaginative enough to assume, it treats a section here, those corrupt roads -- they get a job because they're big and powerful, and then they, what our people would say, that have no connection, have to do that job for a real price. This practice here is a little disguised in this material, but in that Treaty on credit for the development of the private and financial sector, which we adopted in June of this year, and it was published in the "Official Messenger" of the RS – International Contracts, number 42, of this year, it is beautifully written which we owe 34 million and 900 euros. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development says, not in an explanation, but in Plan one, under the Programme's Activities, that – the borrower adopted the principles acceptable to the Bank and adopted procedures relating to the registration of enterprises, as regards the issue of a tax identification number at the Agency for Business Registers. Dear citizens, one of the next points on the agenda, which we will discuss from Monday and beyond, is this part of the business done by the Agency for Economic Registers. Furthermore, the borrower adopted a strategy that is acceptable to the bank, to make a comprehensive revision of legal and sublegislative acts, which regulates the performance of economic activity, Dinkic calls it "the guillotine", and all other "secure regulations", and I'm just saying that the "secret of regulations" that they have now adopted and, for example, the Law on discharge of officials, which you call "maximum number of employees", is at the level of the regulation, in terms of regulation. So, a law that doesn't regulate even a tenth of the matter, it's all left to be dealt with by sublegal laws. To this end, systematicisation, principles for quality checking, etc. So we're talking about "cutting sublegal acts" as a warrant for this creditor, and in fact with that practice we're continuing today. Furthermore, what is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development looking for? Most interesting and I will stop at this one, I will not even read further, as they ask us to reduce the share of state ownership in the financial sector and insurance, but they say under point 3, and therefore come to it – the borrower, so the Republic of Serbia has offered to sell or publish an invitation to find a strategic partner who will take over the basic activities and property, its two largest recipients of state subsidies. What are they? I don't know! But let's not let the state of Serbia get to some large companies that are probably engaged in action of strategic interest, because they need to get these 34 million or these 275, at a time when no one buys, because it's recession and crisis, and so we justify firing and a low standard, to sell two large enterprises. And if you think I'm someone who's scared, I can assure you I'm not. I have no aversion to international world lenders. I don't think our government has used what it says in the IMF statute since 2000, when it says what the objectives of lending are. Why didn't they use it? Because they owed them support and it's not an emotional and thought category, it's a material category. The support for coming to power is too expensive! And what I'm saying isn't an impression, it's an experience. This experience is contained in international contract number 8. I don't know which one of you is here, if he's honest, let him remember. In September of the month, 60 draft laws stood on the desks of your federal deputies. No one discussed this agreement, nor spoke, and it is called the Law on Confirmation of the grant agreement of the trust fund, project, assistance, etc. of this same institution, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and meant the grant of six million dollars, four million and 730 of which, I hold the document in my hands, returned to the consultants. What's the matter? At the September session, he was adopted without debate. It was published, dated 28 September 2001. Then, for health reasons, I sat at home, got work material from my colleagues, and waited for this document to be published officially. It was terrible that no one was discussing him, they didn't make it. He saw the light on October 4, 2001, almost after a month and was secretly deployed. Do you know why? Privatisation was still until September, while the six million-dollar project did not draw up institutions that would conduct privatisation and write the way privatisation will be done, consultants will engage, charge a return for success in privatisation, which companies will privatise, almost, to who will buy them. From this came the Privatisation Act, the agency that was addressed here was formed, I'm talking about page 48, the Privatisation Agency, the Small and Medium Enterprises Support Agency. Then they were formed and it is truly justified that Mr. Cvetkovic objected and said – well, I was the director of the Agency, I am not guilty of anything. It's the ones who adopted this agreement that set us up with fate, that we're happy today when we can take a 275m-euro loan with these conditions, when we wonder if there are companies that are able to join this project and when we're allowed to be told by this project – when you're going into a small supply plan, and the small one was up to $50,000, you have to announce to us who you're going to approve. All over 50 grand is asking the donor these six million dollars. Although four million and 730 are withdrawing donations, the contribution is one, returned to the same donor, his consultants, who in time supported those who allowed conditions to be created for the adoption of this. Later, the Law was changed upwards, and even under worse and harder conditions, workers were left out of work, the labour contract went down by its categories, and we are talking about successes and who is to blame! Today it doesn't matter who's guilty anymore, I won't insist on it, but I will, please, ask and demand that these mistakes never happen again, the mistakes of the surface, the mistakes of the reading, because no one's authority, I assure you, no one's mandate, no one's personal property, no one's, just children and families, are important to all of Serbia, the closed industry and the people who have lost their jobs!- I'm sorry. And I ask those who today check the price of the Russian loan to say what the price of such laws and such haste at the worst and most difficult times. You're a serious man, you have a working experience behind you, and you know what employment is, which is a burden, please, it's Corridor 10, and I travel that way twice every day, like many, but you make sure we don't slaughter ox for a pound of meat. Don't agree to what you don't have to do! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29298	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 17 minutes and 45 seconds have been used. The People's Messenger Arsen Đuric has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger, Milorad Buha.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29299	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of laws before us to decide on a new borrowing. Unlike some earlier borrowings, where funds from these loans have been placed directly in consumption or to cover the budget deficit, funds from this borrowing will be invested in infrastructure projects and this is good, especially in terms of the economic crisis. The DSS is aware of the importance and fully supports the completion of Corridor 10 as one of the most important van-European corridors, as well as the construction of a bridge across the Danube from Zemun to Borca, with all access stations, as well as the construction of other bridges in Belgrade and across Serbia and various other infrastructure projects in the country, because we believe that under the conditions of the economic crisis, there is much more to be invested in infrastructure development. When it comes to the agreement, especially this agreement with the Republic of China, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, we think it must have been more precise and detailed. We in this agreement have several formal sentences, or several members. It's practically one letter of intent. We do not doubt good intentions and believe that these projects should be implemented, but we also believe that this agreement should have been much more precise, because we are concerned that if and when these projects are implemented, our domestic economy and our construction operation will be compromised. We are afraid that suppliers of various goods and goods will be mostly foreign companies, that foreign companies will be the bearers of the job. I think the government would have to take a lot more care of the domestic economy and the domestic construction industry, because we have an extremely high-quality construction industry that can carry out all these projects, not be subcontractors to some other companies. Given that I come from the Zlatibor County, I would say a few words about building a highway from Belgrade to the southern Adriatic. After repealing the concession of the Horgos-Pozega highway, we have announcements that the construction of the highway from Belgrade to Ljiga or from Belgrade to Cačka will begin next year, and there are statements that are contrary. But certainly the route of the road is known to Požega, it is defined and undeniable. As you know from Požega to the border with Montenegro there are two alternative routes, one leads through Užica and Zlatibor, and the other through Ivanjica and Pešter, and according to the Spacious Plan of the Republic of Serbia, I think there is a line across Užica and Zlatibor. What I would like to ask, and if I did, is – has anyone definitely made a decision on where the path will go from Požega to the border with Montenegro? If it is – when and who made that decision? If not, I would like to know on what grounds does the President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic, when visiting the Turkish president, offer a concession to build a road from Požega, via Ivanjica and Pester, to the border with Montenegro? I'd like to present a few arguments in favor of the route through Užica and Zlatibor, so the path from Požega, through Užic and Zlatibor covers the town of Užice, Bajina Basta, Čajetina, Nova Varoš, Priboj, Prepolje, where some 270 thousand inhabitants live. The Zlatibor County is one of the few or perhaps only Serbia's district that records a surplus in the external trade exchange, i.e. larger exports than imports, has about 1,000 and six hundred registered companies, over ten thousand registered shops. There are four significant tourist centers on the territory of the part or on the road of the future highway: Zlatibor, Zlatar, Tara, Mokra Gora, which record over two million overnight stays over the year. These are some arguments that should be decisive when determining the route of the highway. Of course, we suggest that if there's a route across Zlatibor and Užica, that both Novi Pazar and that part connect to that route of the highway. Otherwise, this second route that goes from Ivanjica via the Cave, it does not connect Novi Pazar, it passes 45 kilometers from Novi Pazar, there is practically no settlement on that highway route other than Duga Poljana, and we know what weather and weather conditions are like on the Cave during winter. It is true that the route is somewhat shorter and cheaper, but if it were run by that logic, the highway from Belgrade to Nis would not have to be 250km long, it could have been 200km, if it had been built straight-line, would not have connected any city. So what I would like to say and appeal to the government of the Republic of Serbia is that the authorised state institutions take all these arguments into account when determining the future route of the highway from Požega to the border with Montenegro and that the decision is officially made, not that we allow representatives of some other countries to route us through Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29300	Five minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger, Milorad Buh, has the word, and then the Messenger of Božidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us with three legislative projects most likely adopted today. It's three different legal projects, but the SRS wonders, while worrying about the urgency of passing these laws. What did that do, which are the reasons, except for the financial ones, that we interrupted the Second Regular Session, scheduled the Third, and we'll continue this Second Monday? When the government proposed, why didn't it propose, among other things, the agenda in which these three points would be found? That was only seven days ago. What are the real reasons that caused this urgency? The attitude of the SRS is that all we knew today, we knew seven days ago, and it had to enter the Second Regular Session. There we have, in the Second Regular Session, twenty ratifications, conventions, contracts, agreements, so it all had to be entered into the Second Regular Session, so we don't make papazian out of this Assembly. What the SRS is worried about is the lack of a national borrowing strategy. We don't have a strategy, first of all this power, and the previous government didn't have a strategy in borrowing. What does this strategy have to contain? What kind of action do we invest in when we're in debt? Who are we taking credit from? What's the size of these loans? On what terms do we take these credit lines? It's an integral part of the national borrowing strategy. It seems to me that this government, everyone from the government, is going abroad, negotiating, without agreement with the Prime Minister, with the government and with other state authorities. That's why we have everything on the agenda, and these days we have a lot of ratification of international financial contracts that we owe the state. I'll try, with more financial indicators, to point out the danger we have due to speedy borrowing. There's a fear of the SRS that we'll get into a position that we won't be able to get out of under normal circumstances. Since 2001, we have been conducting an accelerated ratification of the social sector and it ended at 31.12.2008. Everything that could be sold has been sold, and we've included, somewhere, about 2.7 billion, that's the direct revenue of the budget, or the privatisation agency, because it has the most of the funds. We have revenues from a billion-and-a-half mobile telephony, we have revenues from the sale of seven banks, income from bankruptcy procedures, etc., a total of about six and a half billion euros from privatisation in 2001. I ask the question – how much money did it really go into infrastructure? No one in this country can answer that. How long did it go into employment? That, too, no one can answer. These funds were to be used to develop, among other things, and to invest in infrastructure. Furthermore, we had since 2000, according to data from the Ministry of Finance, and in this regard I received an answer to my parliamentary question, that the world came from 2001 to 2008 4.7 billion donations. I referred to a dozen addresses and state bodies – how much is invested in certain areas: agriculture, food industry, infrastructure, etc.? I got some information that I'll read here later. If we look at the amount of financial resources that our financial system, six and a half billion of privatisation, 4.7 of donations, then, of the notes that people from the diaspora send to their families here, that's about 18 billion euros, foreign investment -- about 14 billion euros, certain bank payments that pulled funds from domestic banks abroad -- of 8.5 billion euros, well, paid from bank accumulation -- about five billion, so a total of 50 billion funds went through our financial system. How much money did we invest in the infrastructure? Nobody knows that, very little. This is evident by the arrival of this authority which has slowed down to the previous government, which says it has done nothing in an infrastructure sense. You, Minister, are exactly the advocate of these and such stories. The financial system has gone through 50 billion euros, and almost all of them have been invested in infrastructure. Now that we don't even have privatisation, now that we don't even have foreign donations, now that we don't have any serious foreign investment, now that we don't even have a serious withdrawal of funds in the banking system and commissions in our public enterprises dealing with infrastructure construction, now we're building. Then we enter the projects first and, pressed by the problems of public enterprises and other enterprises dealing with infrastructure construction, because we put them in too much debt, then we withdraw funds, we borrow and create huge problems in the payment-seat position, the position of this state. So when we had a bunch of resources at our disposal, we didn't invest. Now that our economy is collapsed, due to the great economic crisis in the world, and in the most part, huge domestic problems and the lack of reform procedures in the areas of economy, agriculture and construction, and among other things infrastructure, we are now in debt in the field of balance of the state, we are creating such disproportions that will certainly cost us. The current government boasts that the state of public debt is satisfactory, in that we are not very in charge. That's 30% of GDP now. We say - Germany is at 60% level, America is somewhere at 80%, other countries in the region range from 40% to 80%. So here we are, but look, it's just a state of public debt in 2008. In 2009, we have serious credit borrowings, serious accelerated borrowings. What are these borrowings? At the end of the year, we were at a level of 10.1 billion euros. In the course of this year, we only have announced credit lines for Corridor 10, at 1.5 billion euros. So far, what has been ratified in this parliament is about 0.7 billion euros. We have 2.9 billion euros in credit lines with the IMF. It seems to me 700m euros have been realised. Then, we also have an announced loan from Russia, which will certainly be subject to an emergency procedure ratified here because of the need to mitigate the deficit in which our budget is located, about 800m euros is what we will place in the infrastructure. The signing of the Agreement has also been announced, and we are talking today and will ratify the Agreement with China. Construction of the Zemun-Borca bridge, about 200m euros, has been announced. This country has already set out to ratify credit lines to settle budget deficits. We need to discuss the budget deficit of local self-government. The total deficit of the consolidated account will be around 150 billion, which is about 1.6 billion euros. It's all waiting for us this year. Furthermore, we have realised so far and ratified agreements on loans for public enterprises: "The Railways", "The Roads of Serbia", "Srbigas", etc. and all that is announced by the accelerated procedure, in terms of taking credit lines abroad. It's between 1 and 1.5 billion euros. When we add all of this up with an existing public debt of 10.5 billion euros, we'll end up a year with about 20 billion euros. It is now, already, not 30%, it is now 70% of the gross national product We are now already in the position of the high-indebted state. And if we add all that to the position where the domestic economy, which is over-indebted, the banking system only gave about 840 billion dinars, that's nine billion euros, and about 380 billion dinars to the citizens -- then we're talking about a sum of 14 billion euros, citizens and businesses, so we have to add it all. It's all internal debt, but it's supposed to concern us. With a percentage of 70% of GDP, we are in a position not to be able to get any more credit on the foreign market. What are we going to get back from? Do we have prosperous actions that can bring us profit in the foreign markets, from which we can repay these loans? Do we have enough resources in the budget to repay the loans? We don't. We have a huge deficit in our budget. We have a huge business duty. We have a decline in industrial production between 15% and 18%, and here last night we received information that "Ju-es style" closes a single furnace, which will certainly increase the level of industrial production drop, even up to 25% early next year, with a 20-21% drop in food industry, a 30% decline in construction, a decline in trade, a decline in services by 10%, etc. What will the gross social product look like in early 2010? It's a huge hole. We say 4%. How's 4%? What account can do 4% if we have a drop in industrial production, for this year at least it will be over 15%, a decline in construction, a decline in trade, a decline in services, a fall in financial flows, a fall in telecommunications services, which in recent years have had the highest rise, a decline in agricultural production?- I'm sorry. We have in natural terms an increase of 2%, but in monetary-financial terms we have a reduction of 20%. The prices of our agricultural products on parity 2008-2009 are 80% lower. So that's 20 plus that 1%, 18% is our agricultural output. It's the numbers they need to worry about, and worry about. It's just, you obviously don't care. You have no interdepartmental co-operation in the government. The ministers themselves leave, themselves in debt, deliver signed agreements, and eventually, all this ends here in this House. That's what we ratify, or you ratify it, because you have a majority. But what does it expect us to do in mid-2010? The budget deficit in 2006 was 13 billion, 16 billion next year. This year you will have 150 billion, or a republican budget of about hundreds of billions, and the consolidated account is somewhere at 150 billion. What's expected of us in 2011? Nobody knows! That's why the SRS is worried, because we don't have a national borrowing strategy. If we had a national strategy, we'd know exactly what actions we're investing in. If it's an infrastructure, we invest in infrastructure. It will bring us profit, not right away, but first, fifth, eighth, eleven years old. If it's agriculture, we expect an increase that big, so it will eventually bring, in two, three, five years, that kind of profit. We're doing it in a verse, and it's scary. Be assured that this is not just an SRS attitude, but rather a fearsome and ordinary citizen who knows how far it has come. He's unemployed, he's over-indebted, with no perspective, both his own and his own children. If that's not what you're worried about, then you have to think completely about some other methods. Be assured that citizens' patience has come to an end. This winter should endure, in the difficult financial conditions in which our citizen lives. When we talk about financial positions, we have to point to certain problems we've had and, above all, the advantages we've had as a state. [[Applause]] From Eastern European countries, we are the last to enter privatisation. We had to get out of that privatization. And with this privatisation, we forced 400,000 people into the street. Just to make a relationship between the ninth month of 2008 and the ninth month of 2009, the National Employment Service found 157 thousand people who lost their jobs, just because you don't respect the Constitution or the laws. The Privatisation Act, article 61, made it clear to you that 50% of the privatisation revenue is invested in the Development Fund and that you invest in the development and restructuring of the public sector, to prepare it for foreign markets, to create strong companies that will be able to compete with Western European and other enterprises. All a few percent of the privatisation you invested in development and employment, that should also concern you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29302	Since the time of the parliamentary group, 17 minutes and 30 seconds have been used. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic, followed by MP Aleksandar Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29303	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to explain in the shortest possible time why the Serbian Progressive Party will not vote for these legislative proposals. I will speak primarily of the loan agreement for the construction of Corridor 10. Mr. Minister, I expected you to give more information in your opening statement, because everything you said we could read in the draft of this law, and in the end, we could read it all in the press. My expectations were that when we talk about 32km between Vlad's Han and Donji Neradovec, you would say how much these 32km, how many tunnels, bridges, and me as a folk MP, and every citizen of Serbia, however, it would be very important for you to tell us, at least, how much does a kilometer of highway or a square meter of highway cost us? I know that every mile is different, that each share is different, that there are bridges, tunnels, but you still had to say in this project, which you've divided into four components, for the first 32 kilometers, it takes so much money, for nine miles so much and so much, and especially what's unacceptable for us is that this part B, C, and D are left with no digits. We should have known how much of these 275 million and 200,000 euros will be allocated for road safety and implementation, as foreseen in this part of D. Why is this important, Mr. Minister? If a layman looks at this law and says that the loan is 275m and 200,000 euros, it should conclude that our government has calculated well how much money they need, and has rounded it up to that figure. Why isn't it 250 or 300 million? I was particularly concerned when in June, Mr. Minister, I opened "Official Messenger" number 48 and saw that a public call was made to collect offers in an open procedure for the purchase of the main project highway in Corridor 10, a share of Vladičin Han – Donji Neradovac. Mr. Minister, this agreement was concluded on July 13th, and bids were scheduled to be opened on 26 July for the construction of the main project. How do we do it in front of these international institutions, how do we ask for money? Flavouring, as it is said in our people. In the situation in which our country is located, we must take care of every euro. Just when we look at these facts, it's very worrying. Since we haven't received any explanations from you in your opening statement, we can't vote on this proposal. We are responsible people and we want Serbian citizens to know how money is spent from these loans. In June of the month, gentlemen, you could read in the official messengers that Corridor 10 is divided into a large number of shares, ten or more kilometers, and that public ad or call for a major project is being issued for those shares. We've been talking about Corridor 10 for 20 years. Do we have any state institutes? Did their whole work in this country only come down to doing idea projects – that we were looking for loans without having done the main projects? So the question is, how can we ask for a certain amount of money for a particular stock without having a major project? Only through the main project can you see exactly how much that share costs. If, Mr. Minister, you had separated only these parts of A and B where you said there were specificities on both sides, but from the idea project it could be concluded that we needed so many and so many million euros for share B, nine kilometers, so many millions of euros, that would be acceptable for us, there would be some criteria to monitor the spending of these funds. But when you add this part of C and D, through which much can be taken under this supply of goods, equipment, technical assistance and training – that is unacceptable for us. Something here had to be concrete. If you haven't already been able to specify this part of Project A and B, I guess you should have known what this is all about, part of Project C and D, what we're going to get for establishing a national road safety council – that we don't need a lot more funding for these two parts than we need to build a highway. The SNS certainly supports every infrastructure project, but I want to know exactly how much every square meter costs. I was told, once upon a time, how much a square meter of asphalt costs, it's not the same on the street in Belgrade and on the highway. But you are the minister and you need to give us answers to these questions, especially, Mr. Minister, if you say about this 32km highway – one tape, so there is already a path that just needs to be restored and there is one part that needs to be done over and over again. I guess someone at the Ministry was calculating how much it cost. Every Serbian citizen wants to know how these loans will be returned. They can also think about interest, that's some professional stuff, but we're not exactly experts in those areas interested in you telling us how much a share costs, how much a square, how much a kilometer, a bridge, a tunnel. That's what we expected, Mr. Minister, that you would tell us here in your opening statement. If you had told us that, maybe we would have thought about it, it would be clear to us what kind of agreement we're voting for and what law we're voting for. So just vote on a new $275m debt and 200,000 euros is unacceptable for us. It is unacceptable for every citizen of Serbia, however much he wants to take the highways, whether it is that part of the corridor towards Presevo, according to Dimitrovgrad or towards Cačka. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29304	The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Pejcic, after which, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29305	I thank you, Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we have a set of agreements that task Serbia with for certain loans, and based on the construction of infrastructure. It is not the first time that the Serbian government is in debt this year. I am sorry that there are no economic and regional development ministers with you, as well as the finance minister, so let me ask them a question – how much did Serbia owe this year? Given that we have addressed this issue during this year, we have not received a concrete answer, so we have made an effort to find out how much Serbia is in debt this year. So far, Serbia owes 640 million, we're talking about this year. Based on these contracts that we're sure to ratify today, that's another 450 million, since we have 275 million with the Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Chinese Loan another 170, that's 450. Then we'll be in debt to the Russians another billion and wait for the IMF's 720m tranche, which is about 2.8 billion euros. We certainly welcome from the DSS if these loans, loans, dedicated spending on building infrastructure or developing agriculture, but we certainly criticise when funds are taken and spent to cover the deficits. You all know well, as well as Serbian citizens, that this year the government has designed a deficit at 70 billion. I'm afraid it won't be so that by the end of the year the deficit will be between 100 billion and 150 billion, say economic experts. However, I will return to the topic and focus on Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in particular, around Corridor 10. I am sure that everyone in this room, as well as the citizens of Serbia, for the end of Corridor 10, should take that 275 million and finally end Corridor 10, and that for us in southern Serbia and how much it means. For us, Corridor 10 is the breadth of the housewives. For us, it's a component of new development. You're a frequent guest, down in southern Serbia, and you know what this Corridor 10 means to us. Many citizens will receive money from expropriation, new industrial zones will be opened. We expect new duty-free zones, many gas stations, restaurants will open, there in southern Serbia, which is important to us and how important it is, and you know that southern Serbia is empty, that it is prone to migration. If so many people move out and physics doesn't know about empty space, they'll know who'll move in. We have neighbors who are sure to move into those areas. The DSS launched an initiative in the local parliament to change the idea project through the Gredile ravine. You're familiar with that. We were at your place, you were coming down. What's this about? I want to introduce the genealogy to the public and the MPs. Its own time was done an idea project, in doing so, breaking the law. Namely, there was no public debate over this idea project and we DSS committees launched an initiative. We've been talking to every possible address. We haven't heard from anyone. Only the time we spoke to the World Bank, then the World Bank in contact with the Government and with other relevant factors enabled us to create and form a committee that will review this idea project. A week ago, and the biggest credit for this is Dragan Savic, deputy head of the DSS Committee Group and president of the Assembly, your colleague, Zivojin Stefanovic, who contacted you, for the first time started a public debate on the change and revision of this idea project through the Grdelička gorge. What did we do that for? You know there's a brand down in southern Serbia. It's a Predian motel. We want to protect that brand for one simple reason. It's a small town, Predejane, which has five to six thousand inhabitants, and the generator for the development of the whole area is this motel Predejane. The "Predejane" motel was time-privatised in 2003 and declared the best privatisation in the resort of tourism. He was privatised by a local from Predejan, Mr Dragan Pavlovic, who employed over 100 families. So the order of size – 400 hungry mouths depend on that motel. For these reasons, we, from Leskovac, gave local self-government one article to the commission as well. We did an idea project, i.e. "The Public Enterprise Directorate" from Leskovec has created an idea project that passes the Predejana Motel. I hope this idea project comes to life in one major project. You and how much you can help us with your authority, because you know what this is about. You're familiar with matter. I assume you'll be investing all your authority to pass that route past the Predejana motel. Finally, Mr. Mrkonjic, we hope that you will complete this corridor before the deadline, and that the government will also fall before the deadline, because it is the greatest evil of this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29306	Five minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic, followed by MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I will try to present the position of the SRS on this item of the agenda, or three joint proposals. Of course, we're not essentially against investment, so if I can say credit borrowing for investment in infrastructure projects, because we know that they can get it back, and that's good. In my discussion, I would certainly refer to several political aspects, which cast a shadow on all of this and which indeed government representatives should answer, i.e. they should consider and give us some answers. The first thing we noticed, Mr. Minister, was the fact that on all three documents that are in front of us today, the government had no intention of authorising you to be her representative. Some other ministers or members of the government, who are not here today, have been authorized. Now, I'm not saying this from the point of view of disputing your competences to talk about infrastructure projects, Corridor A-10, etc., but the question is really being asked – why are there not those who were authorized not only to represent the government, but also the laws, that includes the Agreement with China and, in doing so, authorized to sign the same agreement? It would also be very useful for us here in Parliament, but certainly for the public in Serbia to, for example, have Mladjan Dinkic, who is authorised on behalf of the government to sign, present and promote all the benefits of Serbia's intensive co-operation with China. I'll remind you of the last nine years. I think it belongs to a political elite that has not chosen a place or time to challenge Serbia's co-operation with the East, with China, with Russia, etc. Look, miracles, nine years later, the government powers anyone else to him to sign agreements with China. But Mr. Dinkic didn't show up today not to sit there for you, he could sit next to you and answer some questions that we would possibly be willing to ask him, not you. Today, when we talk about these agreements, it seems to me, somehow, that at this stage where they are, they are at least your concern. You are at that final stage where money is to be implemented on the ground and implemented through projects, or materialized. Of course, the suspicion that we express for all of this in honesty, let's not say the whole, but the greatest part of the government, in application, or realisation specifically of this agreement with China, I will support one table of the very proposal for a law confirming the Agreement. This table, which the government has presented before us, is actually talking about the trade in goods in the last nine years with China. In 2000. Serbia exported $6.5m to China, which was total annual exports to China. Nine years later, Serbia exports less than nine years ago. Oscillations were present during that period. When Mr Dinkic was at the peak of his predominance in the area of finance, the trade was at the lowest level. He is given the privilege today to sign this agreement and participate in its realization. Now, you see, I'm not here on purpose talking about importing goods from China. China today is a force that is truly in economic expansion and that economic expansion could not, I say, remain immune to a much stronger and much more developed state than we are, but those who had smart economic policy recognized and saw their chance in Chinese expansion and instead of being fenced from China, they found a partner and a co-worker in it. It took the government of the Republic of Serbia or the government in Serbia nine years to recognise its chances in the East in co-operation with China and investments that China can objectively achieve and realise, certainly, and that it also benefits from them, but, above all, we who want to live in Serbia. Then, you see, after nine years, in this explanation you write that China is a world workshop for goods of many Western countries. Suddenly we became aware of all this and those who offer this as arguments to support this agreement did not find it appropriate to come to this Parliament today. It seems to me that there are double reasons why they are not in Parliament today. On the one hand, they are aware of the fact that it would be the crown of hypocrisy that has been present for the past few weeks in Serbia, which began with a sudden expansion of "rusophilism". Today you don't know who's here for the EU and who's for China. On the other hand, we believe that the reasons for the failure of those who are authorized to sign these agreements are the fact that they honestly don't believe it. That's why the SRS expressed doubts about the government's intention, when it comes to this, and certainly not the essence and purpose of these projects. Of course, Serbia is in real economic trouble today, and it is certainly a responsibility in power. What is also the fact that the government does not have adequate answers to the economic problems we are in. Mr. Mrkonjic, you have witnessed, in the last months when you represented the Government, and under the Transport Safety Act or by some other credits relating to the borrowing of the Public Enterprise "Serbian Ways", that the SRS has just disputed the concept of borrowing that is being promoted by the Government. We, we were against credit, but not because loans as an economic category are unacceptable, but because their purpose was exclusively to cover the budget deficit, an unreasonable public spending. It seems to me that you remember that in these discussions too, we insisted on the loans that you will invest in infrastructure, on loans that will be in the function of realising all those projects that have been created on the basis of spatial plans, urban plans, etc. Today, if you remember, we recognize something from our story, which is insistence, when it comes to Corridor A-10, on the Trans-European travel network. I would like to remind you that this is exactly what we insisted in our discussions, and that Serbia must recognise first and foremost the construction of Corridor A-10 because the Pan-European transport network is essentially the outcome of science, is not an expression of the EU's political decisions. So it is primarily in spatial plans that defined the development of Europe, i.e. the European continent, not the EU, but the European continent as a whole in terms of the affirmation of infrastructure and the road network. Today, several months later, the government is trying to convince the Assembly that it should support such an agreement, or a new credit debt that will be realised by such projects. And that's good, that makes sense. Why? Because public works, infrastructure works run consumption, consumption is restarting production, and that is one momentum that is really acceptable. At the same time, we can ask the question whether Serbia today is capacitative to take credit for these purposes as well? You know, one state can be said to have the freedom to take loans, one real freedom, when economic growth in that country is greater than the amount of interest that concerns the loans it withdraws. Today, we think that Serbia is not in such an economic position and that is what is a devastating circumstance for smart projects that, objectively, should or could be done in Serbia. The government has no answer, the government has been wandering and the government has been talking about two things in recent months: borrowings, discussion with the IMF about public spending and, of course, layoffs. We do not believe that harmony can be achieved there and, unfortunately, in Serbia, smart and rational projects, which could objectively or which should be financed either from credit or from their own resources, will be in the shadow of paying someone's public life, the absence of an economic concept, the absence of a vision that Serbia should go forward, the absence of everything that means domestically justified and rational. Of course, the SRS thinks that, I repeat, and that I will end up, investing money in infrastructure certainly makes sense, but at the same time we think that everything that is going on with both the Agreement and the economic circumstances at all, that everything is going on in some strange environment. We do not believe that there is a true and realistic commitment of the representatives who today make up the government, and who today were required to represent and defend these projects in the name of the Government, that these and these duties are put absolutely into function of development and that we believe that Serbia with the Government, which today is there and which it manages, cannot expect a more certain and happy perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29308	11 minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic, after which the word has been passed by MP Dobrislav Prelic. The time available for the DSS Parliamentary Group is 14 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29309	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mr. Milan Lapcevic has come forward as an authorised representative, perhaps you haven't seen him sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29310	It is now the course of the session in the debate according to the application for the word of the MPs, and the authorised representatives are getting, those who did not exercise the right of Article 93, after the debate and according to the notices of the MPs, so that you have the word, excluding these 20 seconds that I will extend to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29311	Okay, thank you. Today we are talking practically about three agreements. It seems to me that the biggest interest among MPs, and hence for citizens, is incuring an agreement on the loan of the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, because the loan is intended for part, i.e. it is fully intended for part of Corridor 10. I'm going to look back at the component of the project, that's the part where we have several components of the project description, and I'm going to talk about the component, I think it's – B. It is a component of the project that covers the implementation of works and the acquisition of equipment on the E-80 highway, Nis – Dimitrovgrad, on the road section north of Dimitrovgrad, a total length of 9 km, so the construction of a highway full of 4 traffic lanes and a calculated speed of 120 km, the following, for relevant electrical and mechanical facilities belonging to the areas, toll collection facilities, intersections and individual side roads to improve connection with the network of local roads. The component also provides for the involvement of a consulting firm to provide engineering services for the mentioned programme. So, I just want to and I'm glad Mr. Mrkonjic is here today, and I want to draw attention to a problem that has existed in the municipality of Dimitrovgrad for several months, and it's about land expropriation. So that's the part of the commitment that the state has to do quality without any problems and disputes with the owners, so that the project itself of this part of the Corridor is done in quality. Almost since August, there has been a problem between Public Enterprise Putevi and Landowners in Dimitrovgrad, which is scheduled for expropriation. There are several stages, let's say, of this problem. The first was an attempt, I think, by the Ministry of Agriculture to exchange land. The land of the second or third category was offered to the owners to land (I stress that these are fields, gardens, that is the wealth of certain families, people are processing and feeding their families) replacements with land of the fifth or sixth class in quite unaccessible areas of the Old Mountain. None of the owners accepted this offer. That offer failed. The owners have been offered a larger area on the Old Mountain, but an inaccessible area and is not suitable for processing. It's understandable why the owners didn't agree to that offer. Next, I think the first meetings were organised in September, although there were several, where they were representatives of "The Way of Serbia". There were several joint meetings, where representatives of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" offered owners from 260 to 360 dinars per metre square metre. Again, I stress that these are fields and gardens. So it's not much to use the word "gudour" that these families don't use. It's always the one who sells something unsatisfactory, and the one who buys always thinks he's given too much. I think the owners here are absolutely right, that it's an inadmissible little sum to be offered. Of course, it is not difficult to obtain information as much as land was paid in some other municipalities. For example, in the Presevo municipality, although I know there are other problems there, the owners were given up to 10 euros per square meter. We have Pirot, there's the same quality of land, the offer was 1,036 dinars. It's, again, over 10 euros. Landowners in Dimitrovgrad are really wondering why such a relationship with them, why in some other local self-governments came to a much better price. I stress, Dimitrovgrad is a city where almost no factory or company works. People who receive salaries are employed in a budget institution. It's schools, it's local self-government. Otherwise, very many of the citizens of Dimitrovgrad are victims of transition or, say, failed businesses. Families use this land for processing. It's something that's very important to support these families. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you've met, I assume you've heard, it's been in the media about it and I want to get to know you in more detail, I hope you'll get some more information in your ministry, that there have been talks between representatives of the Public Enterprise Roads, that there have been some pressures, some ugly words, that immediately the owners referred to the court. That's the guy you're complaining about, so it's gonna take a while. I don't think it's in the state's best interest to have some litigation in court right now, 'cause that puts the whole thing off. This way, I would like to point out that the local self-government in Dimitrovgrad has not engaged much to help its citizens. It's the same ruling nomenclature in the municipality. They are in the municipality's power of DS and SPS. However, I think that every local self-government, whoever is in power in the Republic, is primarily interested in somehow choosing the interests of its citizens. So pressures, threats, inviting individual landowners to exert pressure is not right. It reminds me a little of those cowboy movies when the Wild West was conquered, so the farmers were taken in, threatened to give the land to nothing. This way I really ask you to look at this problem and intervene to resolve it to the satisfaction of both the owners and the state who certainly wants to bring this project to an end, as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29312	The used time is nine minutes and 10 seconds. Time is available to the parliamentary group for five minutes and 20 seconds. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word, followed by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, in any case, the SRS does not want to challenge any moment of your presence here, but the fact is that the ministers who were required to attend here have not come. It is very good for the public to see that the SRS has the opportunity to explain to our citizens, to present, which is why ministers do not want to come and attend the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That was evident, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, and yesterday when there were parliamentary questions, that the ministers did not want to answer many parliamentary questions, but to those who answered believe that they were not adequate answers and that it was better that they were not even trying to explain. What the SRS certainly wants to support is investment in infrastructure, which my colleagues have said, but the simple question is, the SRS programme is unequivocal and all that we have represented for years, first of all, co-operation with Russia, China and India, how is it that now you have turned, or not specifically you as a minister, but the ruling majority, first of all DS since coming to power in 2000? What they did and what's the fact is they certainly owed the country too much. We've asked questions, Mr. Minister, under what conditions do you get loans, what is the grace period, what are the interest rates? Many questions have not been answered. Now, all of a sudden, especially after visiting Russian President Dmitri Medvedev and agreeing on the loan we need to receive, certain political parties are asked for transparent work, public, which we certainly advocate, to know what the interest will be, what the grace period will be, etc. What the citizens of Serbia have received from this current government and from, above all, democratic changes since 2000, it is a huge debt, one big commitment from the country that our generations and generations will repay. I'm just gonna repeat that, first of all, when it comes to this government, nothing has been done since the pre-election promises. Let's just mention a few things: in 16 months of this current government once, if I am not mistaken, Prime Minister Cvetkovic announced after 100 days of the government, when he said - that this government is adorned by mutual respect and tolerance. He was probably right. The cake in Serbia is small, hungry mouths, above all I think of 25 ministries – it should be satisfied, all of which are at the heart of the Serbian citizens. That this is an impossible mission to testify and that – that there is nothing out of 1,000-euro actions, that social justice is nowhere near the level you were talking about, that pensions have not been increased, because today, Mr. Minister, everyone knows that they are counting, and they know God and our pensioners. Today, they have fewer pensions than they had, after 11 June, or the constitution of this National Assembly. What can this government boast of? 300,000 jobs have been promised, and every day more and more workers are fired. There are more strikes and more daily ones. Not since yesterday's post office, one company that's stable, and then imagine what it's like in other structures. You boast of the establishment of folk cuisines, which means you have indirectly admitted that there are more and more hungry in Serbia. People cut off our fingers, strike hunger, and the government is absolutely doing nothing. The promises of white Schengen, the removal (visa), and what affected our economy in particular, and the most agriculture is – the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement. You've seen, first of all, a statement from the Netherlands that since the application of the Trade Agreement, the mutual, there's absolutely nothing. So, conditions are still being sought and the government of the Republic of Serbia is being blackmailed, above all, when it comes to co-operation with The Hague tribunal. As the economy has been systematically destroyed, so has the turn, Mr. Minister, and agriculture, the only economic branch in which the country, or the Republic of Serbia, is achieving a surplus, which is directly affected by the application of the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement and the import of foreign goods into our market. Boris Tadic made a statement the other night on the first RTS programme – that the state cannot invest in production. Of course, they were very successful in destroying Serbia's production. But that's why he can invest in Fiat, in a private company. That's probably another promise from your coalition agreement. Who received funds for economic recovery in the Republic of Serbia – a pair of tycoons? I'm sure they didn't get small and medium-sized enterprises, because I know for a fact that they've asked for absolutely so many documentation and that, regardless of how well the companies have functioned, and in the end these funds haven't been received. And what's most dangerous is that the budget deficit is covered by debts and foreign loans. Mr. Minister, since you are here, I would like to take the opportunity to ask you, do you, as Minister of Infrastructure, have any information and facts as to how the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund is spent, where is the most invested in infrastructure and travel economy? Based on the projects applied to the Capital Investment Fund, the municipality from which I come received about 50 million of road changers and for the construction of the Kruščić-Bački Gračac road. We have applied for this journey to cross the regional path, which we think would be of great importance for that environment, and I know that you know this environment very well, and you know first and foremost the situation in the Odzac municipality, so that this road will go to the region because it is Bogojev, because there is a lot of room for investment, and I think, in the end, that the Republic of Serbia will get it, however, we have been granted 19 million, Mr Minister, and the project is worth 124 million dinars. Do you know why we're authorized, Mr. Minister, 19 million? Well, so we can't start work! All because the Serbian Radical Party was in power in the municipality of Odzac. We can't say that they're not approved, but they're approved in that amount that simply, you know very well, we can't start work. We've started to work seriously, I've talked to you about it once, on a detour about Odjak, because it's the middle, or the city where heavy freight traffic passes through the city center, and I think that, too, for the sake of God's sake, it would be of great importance. We have been granted 24 million, and you know how much it costs – absolutely, just so they don't say we haven't been granted funds. Mr. Minister, if there are even democracies, first of all, in the executive government of the AP Vojvodina, we should have been a mezzanine, to show a real degree of democracy – that there is no difference, first of all, in municipalities where DS is not in power with coalition partners, because in the municipality Odjaks people pay taxes and should also be shared in the same way. I would like to ask you a question: 'Is it by any chance the President of the Executive Council, Bojan Pajtic, in conflict of interest, when, as president of the Executive Council of the Vojvodina, is also the chairman of the Fund's Management Board?- I'm sorry. ''The money is shared by having to share the coalition partners, but believe me, you know it well, that in Vojvodina they are not necessary, but that is why they are needed here in the Republic Parliament – they must first get these municipalities, and only then, if something remains like this on a spoon, municipalities that are primarily serious and responsible. Yesterday in Parliament, first of all, Mr Martinovic tried to present one thing – that the great danger prevailed over Vojvodina when it came to the statutes and the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. Mr. Chiplic couldn't absolutely answer him. He even tried to drag the subject to another side. What is really dangerous and what the SRS wants to present to our citizens and in time to warn about what is coming to Serbia and these laws that have been adopted here, I mean first of all the Regionalisation Act, and now it's up to Vojvodina, he said there is no separatism in Vojvodina, and I will remind you that there is separatism in Vojvodina. That's what we've proven on many occasions. I am sure that we will succeed in fighting and presenting the right thing to the public, that Vojvodina will not get what Bojan Pajtic has promised his coalition partners first. I'll tell you one more thing, Mr. Minister, and I'll finish the presentation. Do you know why the U.S. has never been in power – because we went to elections with one, first of all, an honest parole, which is "the truth against lies"? So far, we have succeeded, and I hope that we will succeed after these choices that have now been called. I thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29314	The time used is 12 minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic, and he is the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29315	I haven't heard how long it's been.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29316	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 25 minutes and 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29317	Thank you. At the beginning, I would have to inform the public that on 7 September 2001, when the President of the Council of Citizens was Mr Micunovic, the debate over four draft laws was united. The three draft laws were really laws on confirming an agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development – concerning financial work, someone, economic and social. At that time, representatives of the SRS, Vukicevic, Maja Gojkovic and Vojislav Seselj had a sharp attack on the concept represented by Miroljub Labus. I also looked at the stenogram, so I noticed that the harsh critic of that policy, on September 2001, was Ivica Dacic, Oscar Kovac, Buba Morina, Veljko Odalovic, at the time he was also an MP, Jovan Zebic and several other people from the SPS, who criticised this non-critical relationship with everything that, at that time, came from abroad. I point out this only for a reminder, that in the meantime someone is changing politics, and someone is still in the same positions, you know, has the same attitude over something that's very important. Serbia has been facing major internal problems, economic and social problems, as well as the problem of sovereignty and territorial integrity, faced with major conditions from abroad, facing the fact that no funds are chosen when Serbia and the Serbian people are being attacked, that they are hitting dignity, that they are hitting on existence and that in such conditions both the people and the states are quite vulnerable, and then they are really able to identify the Messiah from the best intentions in everything and everything. A messiah that has a magic wand, tells a story, criticizes a concept, a suggestion, and it's a man who hasn't even made a garage in his life, so there's a kind of confusion. For years, I am not allowed to speak that way, and some experience simply tells me that I have in mind that as representatives of the government there are Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and Mr. Dejan Kovacevic, Kovacevic who made more bridges in the country than there are seats for MPs here. Now I tell him how to build a bridge, how to expropriate, how to create an idea project, the main project, how to conduct a tender, I'm sorry, I couldn't tell you so well, to convince Mr Kovacevic that he's been wrong for the past 40 years. For the sake of the public, I have to say that in this country when it was the best condition all of our highway paths have the character of the highway or, let's say, they're on the stock where Corridor 10 is, they're almost all made by means of foreign loans. In the 1970s, when he headed from Nis to Belgrade, it was also an international loan. Why? We didn't have that battery of ours at the time so we could plan some investment in the long run. I'm saying this for reasons why I'm taking a loan to build a highway and everything that goes and representing Corridor 10 is not an exception, it's just, I have to say, a rule. It's almost a similar rule when it comes to rail infrastructure. Rare are countries in the world that can make rails with their own resources, so the railways have joined together and made their own special bank that finances all of this. I'm saying this to simply take the seriousness of this topic on the agenda. Of course, the Chinese became our friends after nine years and it's a great epochal success. He finally matured Boris Tadic, realizing that despite the fact that the Chinese are low people making very good medicine and they're huge in almost all areas. Today they have the largest two banks in the world, those Chinese who attacked in 2000, and they criticized Mrkonjic and me for talking about friendship with China and friendship with Russia. Mr. Moron, that's when these coalition partners of yours attacked us, to remind you. They don't know anything, they haven't changed, they don't know now, that you know. That's why I called to tell you that they don't know now. We here on the table have two laws confirming some agreements, and the agreement is something that represents consent to the will of a foreign Contracting Party. We who need to ratify this, say, where we could possibly intervene, is Article 1 and Article 3 and Article 2. We cannot change anything there, but we can conclude, on the basis of the text of the Agreement, what the will of the Contracting Parties was and what was the negotiating power of those negotiating and what was agreed upon. Know, Article 2 of this law is essentially carrots or sticks – take it or leave it! I think there was room to negotiate better. I think there was room to solve things more precisely, define and think that when the state negotiates with abroad, whether it's an international organisation, a bank or a state, it's managed by some of its principles and interests. It's not just our interest to take the money, it's to see what with those funds can get away with it as much as possible. Of course, we are not in a position to dictate the general conditions of someone who has some general conditions and represents an international organisation, but I believe that some clauses or something that you have agreed to go deep into some issues, and these are also issues of the sovereignty of this country. For the sake of order, I'm going to mention some concepts that shouldn't be in this agreement. Under D, let's say, Program 2 under D, point 1 – "Lypoprimac will adopt and deliver Banks at the latest by 30 June 2010" (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development) "The Action Plan for the reform of JP "The Paths of Serbia", in the form and content that the bank considers satisfactory. 'You know, you shouldn't have put this in this agreement, whether this is given to you, with interest or no interest, etc. Are we then under the custody of the International Bank, so she says - if I'm satisfied, you'll reform the public enterprise "The Ways of Serbia"? The organisation of state-owned bodies, the organisation of public enterprises, is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. If we justify ourselves to someone who's given money and his consent depends on whether we get the money for the highway, and depending on how we plan to transform our public enterprise, I'm sorry, please, what did you negotiate? The transformation of the company or the construction of the highway? You shouldn't have let that be here! Furthermore, point 2 – among other things, the bank considers it satisfactory to confirm the availability of adequate fees for expropriation purposes. What does that mean? That they estimate that there will be expropriations and what will be the price, or compensation, and you know for yourself, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, that there is a peaceful procedure and there is a court case. Does that mean they'll affect our courts? Why do I say that it is much more important to preserve the state, both integrity and sovereignty? I'm not opening a topic. You've figured it out. Then, he says -- goods and works, procurement guidelines, we didn't see that. Next, guidelines for consultants, don't, please, from abroad. At the time of Labus, 35 percent of the consultants from abroad were known. The agreements were written. And you were, Mr. Grouchy, at that time an MP to the Council of Citizens. You remember that the MPs of the SRS criticised what percentages were charged for consulting services. What are those favors? Studies, apparently, feasibility. Now in Serbia, those who make feasibility studies, former architects, etc., who have some channels, by 7% of the total value of the loan, will make you a feasibility study that you guarantee will pass. Why? Because everything he writes, he has to accept Dinkic or someone else. That circle is closed, so you know. The next thing you shouldn't have put on, then you have to watch the International Competition Procedures. In the Public Procurement Act, we have just given some mild advantage to our participants in public procurement. What does that mean? This doesn't have to mean anything on paper, let me tell you something, in practice, but why is this standing? Next, there's talk of the last date, that you know by 2015, yet they'll control what's going on, how it's going, and that I'm not getting into these details right now, so right to inspection, the Bank will control you completely, those when they start to control, who knows what they can ask to control, so fraud and corruption. You see, you've been put in and watched from the point of view of fraud and corruption. You know, we have two processes now. We have a process where a completely justified state should be in charge of one loan to do something that is infrastructure, because it pulls away, it pulls everything. Then they control you because they don't believe, because they know exactly who they brought to power, you know. Mr. Carrot, they know DS better than you and I. They say -- now we have to make a system to control that there is no fraud and corruption and give the criteria, please. Look, one more thing, on the agenda of the National Assembly, there's no law coming to confirm some agreement with the IMF, which is being discussed, because yesterday, neither guilty nor debtor, Mirko Cvetkovic here said something, we were frakking, we wanted to faint, he says, "it's not subject to ratification." Why? "That money takes the National Bank to guard the course, so it's a reserve. "For what reserve? Is that supposed to come back? If he's supposed to come back, I guess the state has to wonder. The governor of the National Bank can't - turkey, dots, it doesn't count. Transfer three billion to our account. Do you want your money back? Here, let's give it back to you. Wait, where's the state? What if, God forbid, you hit a governor's drop? Who's gonna answer? Him, your property? He doesn't have that much property, he only has a villa on Santa. He doesn't have that property he can answer to. You see, at the same time, two pretty, at first sight, contradictory processes happen, but they're both bad. Of course, we need infrastructure, we need highways. Why? To employ our people, that even that flow through this beautiful state of ours is acceptable, to capture these connections, as it is said, that someone else would not create some other corridors, so that it would endanger our perspective for a long time. How can we not doubt the realization of this? How can we not doubt that? We go through Belgrade, they change asphalt twice a year every street, and then they go to the sidewalks, and now they're going to the banks, so they're going to the parks. Two years ago, they reconstructed the park, didn't spend electricity, and now they're running electricity. A few days ago I see they're setting up those concrete canaries, birds. How can that be so high-priority for the citizens, and you say that 700,000 people starve in this country? Where can they end this money? Second, this is where a special company, Corridor 10, was built. So there's no trust in public enterprises, there's trust in Corridor 10. Basically, it's not the matter of this law, but essentially, what we all need to know is – is it coming back in eight years? With what means will he return, whether toll, do what is collected through taxes, in what way? How will the funds return to this amount or start returning funds on this loan? I agree, it is not his place to be in this law, because it is not in this agreement either, because the Republic of Serbia has taken the obligation, but it will have to go from budget to future. We have to have some projections, some thinking to get it back, whether it's from toll, whether it's from motor vehicle registration fees, whether it's a special tax, whether it's excise -- I don't know. Something may happen in the meantime or invent as some new source of funds for the purpose of returning this. And we need that information to know what it is. Of course, projects are also needed, expropriation is also needed, it is necessary to prepare the operation that is doing this, it is necessary to use these funds effectively, to make the most of these resources available. We need to exercise our control, not what they're doing here, but the real control. Why? These are the funds that are meant for something that's justified. This isn't going to cover the budget deficit, this isn't going to the agencies, it's not going to these experts that are invented here, etc., this is something you need to see. It has to be seen in miles, in roads, machines that will work for years and produce this strange product called "the road." I must tell you that there really is no room for these sentences in this agreement: "building capacity for road safety needs, including helping to establish a national road safety council". Why would we use foreign credit to build a national road safety council, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic? Furthermore, "building a framework plan to improve road safety". We need to pay by these means to build a plan, be careful – you have traffic colleges that can end it all. If this wasn't a consulting service abroad, maybe you were conditioned? You know, when they squeeze, I can understand that. Then, "making and adopting a national road safety strategy". For the Irad and the adoption. Someone's working it, and who's adopting it? What is paid to the one who adopts the strategy? If that strategy comes to the National Assembly, what do we need to pay here to raise a hand for that strategy? "The creation and management of two inter-resor pilot projects on road safety." If I didn't read further what was given by the system, it would be nice to have it in some agreement. I think you could negotiate much, much better. I'm sorry, let's say, that within this agenda point, in the way I talked, I couldn't, say, help Mr. Gojko Popadic from Novi Sad. He and his wife are pensioners, crying for welfare, living with their daughter and their grandkids in a 49-square apartment. The kids complain, because what they get on the table isn't enough. I know this loan won't help Mr. Popadic, but the impression is that in these Euro-Atlantic integrations people are forgotten, it's quite forgotten about people. You know, perhaps the grandchildren of this Mr. Popadic should also use that highway. But what is this situation now, will they experience it? Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, what they did in nine years, these coalition partners of yours, which you criticized up to a year and a half ago, they were quite warm, if I may say, the social and economic situation in this country. Six thousand people as civil servants are in a uncertain situation. There will be both the army and the police, and the railways, and the mailmen, and medical, health workers, and why not tell the judges and prosecutors? Do you see everything, alone, that this isn't over? Mirko Cvetkovic didn't know where the border of the Republic of Serbia was yesterday! He didn't know how to say anything. He didn't say anything. He's probably convinced by someone at the door that he's the Prime Minister and that he needs to sit there. But he did not answer anything except those transparent sentences about it “keep the water while the masters leave. ” No one has given this people a clear message that it is worth living in this Serbia, that it is worth fighting for. Yesterday, I was talking about the attacks on the councilmen. Here, unfortunately, last night, an MP was attacked. As I was saying it, they smiled at me. The situation is getting out of hand. Something has to be done. Perhaps these laws will pass because there is a need. You've specified the purpose, the purpose is justified, it's an interest. Such projects should be supported, but open your eyes, what's going on with these projects. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, let me remind you, in 2000, you opened a bridge in Varvarin, remember that you barely saved Velje, and I think that Dejan was, too, attacked by those from the SPO, with them you're now in the coalition. In Nis, you led the president of the state of Milan Milutinovic to open the second bridge. Then he was attacked by Bosko Ristic and these, and now you have coalition partners. Not to remind you of Novi Sad, you know who was checking to see if he could handle himself. Take care of who you're in the coalition with, and if these funds really do come from every euro and every dinar you make as much as possible, and I think you know how to do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29318	Thank you. Mr Milan Lapcevic, on behalf of the DSS Group, answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29319	We have three laws on the agenda today – ratification of the Loan Agreement for Corridor 10, agreement with the People's Republic of China and meteorological satellite. I don't know what these three dots have to do to be connected to one, or this third, to these two. If it's a reason of purpose, I can understand it. On the agenda, we have another 275m-euro loan and an agreement with the Republic of China which is indicative and which tells us nothing concrete except what you said, which is not listed in the Agreement, that we will get from China a loan of 170m euros to build bridges and access stations from Borca to Zemun. There's no such thing in this agreement. So it's not clear to me if we're ratifying with this agreement and this particular sum and under what conditions, or if it's just an announcement of something that will only later come as a new ratification of a single loan. It has never been disputed for us from the DSS that the state is in charge of building certain infrastructure projects and other things concerning concrete projects. Of course, we've always had a dispute at what point does such responsibilities take place, do the government debt funds go to those areas that will help raise the country's development to a higher level and increase GDP, so that these loans can come back later? Or funds will be taken, such as, unfortunately, in the last few months, the phenomenon has been common, to fill the gaps in the budget, i.e. the fill-up of the deficit that occurred in the state register, thanks to the work of your government and the excessive spending of money, and of course a smaller inflow due to the economic crisis. Not only because of the economic crisis, but also because of the failure of the economy which unfortunately came as a result of a long-term decline in production, incompetence on the market, but also because of incompetence and unquality privatisation. It is not disputed that Corridor 10 is the breadth of the housewives, the transport infrastructure house for this country and that, as far as I'm concerned, and of course I suppose most of the MPs in this room, that this corridor should have been completed much earlier, and even in the '90s, when you were talking about high-speed railways and projects that were always completed before the deadline, and they were never even started. I wish that was so, that we now have a highway connecting the Middle East and neighbouring countries across Serbia with Europe and down South Europe, that is, Greece via Serbia with the rest of Europe. Unfortunately, that is not the case and we welcome this initiative to finally begin with the completion of this corridor. It's a dispute for us to hear the last months or the last days, what it's going to be like to take new loans and what it's going to be for. In this year and a half in this country, since your coalition is in power, I have calculated by a pedantic calculation that in this House we have had about 40 ratifications of various international loan agreements, which are heavy, no less than 1.9 billion euros. The state under your authority has owed about two billion euros for this year and a half, not counting on the IMF loan, which amounts to over three billion dollars and new loans announced by Russia, out of a billion dollars, from China 170m and from the World Bank about 600m euros. These loans will be in charge of the state, say experts, will be new debts of around 600 billion euros, which will increase public debt, i.e. state debt to 15 billion. This amounts to neither less than half of GDP. A logical and justifiable question arises, do we really have so much courage, that at a time of recession in the world, an even greater recession that can be called the elemental disaster in this country, among other things, and because of the work of your government as you work, to go into such a risk, to be in debt to 50% of GDP? I do not dispute that the conditions for borrowing in this World Bank loan are relatively favourable, but I do not think the new loans coming for ratification in this parliament are under favourable conditions. In particular, those who serve to reconcile your coalition appetites are not justified, i.e. to close holes in Serbia's thin budget. When a loan is taken, it is likely to be kept in mind and thinks about how the loan will be returned, in addition to the conditions that are most important. I'm not sure anyone in the government is seriously considering how in three, four or five years, when the first payments of massive loans start, from which we're going to repay those loans? Or, unfortunately, as we did in previous years, we're going to have to sell one-by-one public enterprise that has a certain value, so we can get those loans back. I don't think it's responsible for the exercise of power, and it's going to be a big problem for the whole country to run the country at the time, probably not going to be you, but it's going to hit the citizens, who are already in difficult social status. Economists, who are also your prime minister's advisers, say it's completely unwarranted to go into these loans and say we're just buying time, and we're going to be in a phase to become an overindebted state that can't repay debts. That's what your prime minister's advisors say. However, in a few days we'll probably hear the terms of a new loan from the Russian Federation worth a billion dollars. We heard that $200m will be a one-time aid to the Republic of Serbia's budget to settle what you failed to reduce in public spending or did not have a good will to reduce public spending, because you have the most massive government in Europe. The other 800 million, can only be heard through the media or seen, read, will be invested through some projects that you're not sure about either, so that's what's going to be mentioned - the end of the Belgrade Round, so the construction of Metro is mentioned, and the completion of the "Prokop" is mentioned, so some of the Rural stations or whatever, I don't know what they're called, too, around Belgrade. A part of the funds for the construction of the road from Horgos to Novi Sad and part of the funds for the start of construction of the highway from Belgrade to Cačka are also mentioned, one part for construction or reconstruction of the railway from Dimitrovgrad to Nis. I just have to ask you, because we talked about this topic a few months ago, about a train knot and a cancerous town of Nis, which is the passage of the main railway corridor 10 through the heart of the city, is it possible that this $800 million couldn't have been separated from the $30 million or $40 million to create this alternative track, that is to say, the shift of that railroad from the average to the Red Cross, is already more important to all of these things that I mentioned? Since you have listened to what I have already mentioned, what will the money from future loans go to, and mainly concerns either the construction of the infrastructure in Vojvodina or the construction of the infrastructure in Belgrade, the Prokop, what not, the metro, the new bridge from Zemun to Borca, again imposes a logical question – is there anything else in this country to invest in, or does the state have to be in debt to build Belgrade in everything and strengthen the infrastructure and standard of the population in Belgrade alone? Do you do the bear service to the people of Belgrade and do you think that you will help people in southern Serbia, eastern Serbia, who already have five or six times less incomes today, where the population is mass evicted to those areas where they can find a job, thus helping them stay in those parts, or will they all come to Belgrade to live? What is the responsible policy that every credit we take and all the projects that this country is doing is mainly related to the centre of the state, to the administrative center, to all the ministries, all the agencies, is all living in this Belgrade? The question is simple – how long will such regional differences and such differences in poverty be suffered? A moment ago, my colleague presented data, and you know that for the expropriation of land for the construction of Corridor 10, i.e. the highway in the Belgrade municipality, for example, both a pyrotical or a dimitrovgrad offering incomparably lower land prices than that taken from the one that is, for example, Belgrade or Vojvodina, even a land exchange. At least you could have heard so much that you paid those people honestly what was theirs, because probably every penny means to them in this kind of misery and poverty. I think these things that you mentioned here are especially about Chinese credit and saying that this loan will not be related to our public procurement procedures and that it is good – maybe it is good weather, maybe it will speed up the work, maybe it will shorten some procedures, but I'm afraid there's a wide space opening up for abuses. I believe you'll make sure it doesn't come to this, because it's clear and known that the most profitable jobs in the area of road construction are bridge construction. If that state has no control, then there's likely to be these phenomena. So, I repeat again, we're not against credit projects, especially building highways. You know that the biggest revenue from the road economy is harvesting from Corridor 10. I appeal that as soon as possible, watching statistics on how many vehicles go from Turkey to Bulgaria through Serbia still to the West, as well as announcements by the Bulgarian and Romanian sides to build an alternative direction of Corridor 10, put all the funds first at the end of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad stock, and only all the other shares. Because it will certainly contribute to greater traffic on that corridor, a much larger inflow of funds from which the rest of the corridors or other highways in Serbia can be built towards the southern Adriatic and other routes. As far as loans are concerned, they can go through this parliament if the funds are invested in what will bring recovery to the Serbian economy and increase population standards, but we will not agree with those loans that will fill the budget, because first and foremost, the government must cut its costs, and only then be in debt or introduce new imposes on the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29320	Thank you. The word is Mr. Minister, since it no longer answers the word of any of those who, in accordance with Article 93, have the right to take a word for it. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29321	Thank you very much. It's just, I'm sorry, how much time do I have? How much time do you give me? For the first time, I could talk for more than an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29322	By your judgment, but we hope you'll be as concise and clear as ever.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29323	For one hour, I can answer to people in a precise way, no matter what the MPs who spoke are not here, I still have to say that I feel extremely pleased when it comes to infrastructure, traffic infrastructure, please, since everyone is talking about infrastructure now, I've limited myself to traffic infrastructure. In terms of this House, the quality of these discussions really exceeds what I know often. I'll start with the ladies. I want to say two sentences to everyone. First question - why am I here and the other ministers aren't here? I must say, and today, talks with the Monetary Fund continue, and Mr Dinkic and Mrs Diana are at these meetings, which is very important, and Mr Oliver Dulic is in Rome, chaired by the Conference, the European and World Conference, on the protection of the human environment. So that's why I'm here and I hope you don't mind. Of course, the confessions you gave me as a symbol of infrastructure cheer me up. Mrs. Tabakovic knows so well the matter I'm talking about, it's really an insult that I'm answering anything to her right now, but the international loans that you, ma'am, have missed so much through your hands always have some conditions. I won't go any further than the credit we got, because that controversy has been public for the last few months, for Gazela. So, with what we're supposed to do, we've got another assignment. Of course, moving the Roma is extremely important, but Mr. Kovacevic knows it better than I do, the whole bridge reconstruction can be done without touching the Roma at that time, and we've accepted it and we have to do it. The answer to the question of most MPs who have spoken about whether or not everything that is in that contract – must be respected. The second question that you also asked several MPs spoke about, whether we will listen to international institutions to restructure our businesses – out of the question, of course. But knowing that we had a legitimate debt from the previous years in the road company, knowing that there was no human power to do it, the whole Corridor 10, we just strengthened that team, and the daughter of the company in the road company was formed, there are a dozen new people, young people, and that's what we did and what the international banks have accepted and today they accept it. Therefore, no other procedures have been performed. We need to be aware that the Road Company or JP "Serbian Roads" must suffer certain changes and in the act of action relating to the maintenance of the main and regional roads, because it is his previous duty and we are aware of that and we will do so. So none of the bankers have ever been conditional. I have one more thing to say. Even when we talked about "Gazal" and there were people from the International Bank who were willing to make concessions. Therefore, it is not that – what counterpart Zoran Krasic was just talking about. We won't let, of course, as much as I can stop them from interfering with our independence. The other elements of the Treaty, Mrs Tabakovic, are quite clear. I wouldn't discuss that right now. The government is working as one team, everyone has a mission, we're fighting, but the finale is what we're telling you here right now. That loan is favourable and I'm proud to take it. I assume you'll vote for it. The answer to Mrs. Donkey. Don't worry, I'm in Dimitrov City on Tuesday. We know it's a liquid problem. What you said about pressures, that's out of the question, no one can pressure our citizens! You know my attitude. Therefore, we will sanction it immediately, but we will see that no citizen, and that is the position of this government, is being damaged by the realization of these significant projects. Further, Belgrade-Cacchak. Of course it was the second priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia to build a highway from Belgrade to Cačka and I answer to my second Veli. We have already taken steps for this Belgrade-Cacchak highway, so whether it is going to go here or there, we have not yet decided, it is going to Bolari then to Bar, and further, from Belgrade to Vrsac, Arad, Temisvar and the Russian border, to enter the network of European and railway corridors. They have already submitted the EU's request to treat it as a separate corridor. For this we have the full support of all the surrounding countries, of which Italy, Romania and Bulgaria are already EU members and I hope that, very quickly, and that corridor may become not Corridor 10, but it will be, its working title is Corridor 11. That corridor doesn't exist in Europe. Therefore, there will also be a railway from Belgrade to Bar and up towards Vrsac, etc., and the highway. The criticisms about the details General Delic have been fully justified, but believe me, how nice it is for me to come here, when I know the discussions are of this quality, I am sometimes afraid of giving you more information about some of the elements you know. So, it's all in the euro. We had an idea project, the main projects we didn't have for the entire section of Corridor 10 and for the track and for the road. Based on the idea projects and the physibilities of the 1996 Space Plan, we entered into negotiations with banks. That's why I answer to people who have just been criticising alleged Belgrade, I think it was Mr. Lapcevic, there's no Belgrade. That's why we left the South, where the softest shares were from both the North and the East, from Dimitrovgrad. Let me let you know, there's a stock tender at Dimitrovgrad these days. Forty companies have filed documentation, and I expect at least a dozen or twenty offers. There's a lot of our companies, and that's the first job we have to start by the end of the year. So there was no other reason for what we were doing. The secret's gone. Now we're entering something I thought we'd overcome, a share around Dimitrovgrad that is now ending up with a bid costing about 119m euros. It doesn't go that I, as the man who runs this project, speak to the public now that the bids are delivered tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, what is the cost of this project according to our projects. That's not working, but I just told you. So, for every share that's been called for, we have completed major projects, not only ideas, but we could also talk to the International Bank on the basis of ideas projects. For example, the share between Horgos and Novi Sad, these two we went from the budget to our own resources, was that the value of the works would be 1 million euros, of course, that's a semi-road, because half was built during the former regimes, (Mr. Canak) cost by the estimate of our experts about a million euros. The price was 600,000 euros in the tender, so it is not very convenient to operate in public with those figures. That was the only reason I didn't talk about those details. Now there will be a share for the North, from the 38th kilometre, now we end from Saturday the 28th and 38th. The tender will be called from 38th to 49th, another 11km and very soon. That's where we'll go with the real prices. Predyane is special, not to say, the problem – is no problem. Of course, when project realization comes, they have the right to say what they think. I've been down more than once every time I get to the South, I stop at Predian. We'll take into account everything you've been talking about. Believe me, Predian will be dealt with in the best possible way. Please understand, the highway to other places, let's say, we have a Pyrot case, somewhere the citizens won't enter the freeway into the room, somewhere they will, etc. So we have to understand that the highway is built once in a hundred years, and then we have to stick to some spatial plans and some common interests. But in the Predeans, I think we can make a deal. Mr. Dragan Stevanovic, who always impresses me with his knowledge and knowledge, is only wrong, the government is not wandering. This government does not wander, at least when it comes to the strategy for the development of traffic infrastructure. The government has absolutely unanimously accepted the traffic infrastructure development programme. It has been determined that by the end of 2020, the legal mandate, I am not speaking as long as the government will be on stage, to finish the complete Corridor 10, highway. The total value of the works is a billion and 500 million, and now I pray once again, because there were questions about how much money, here, these 275 million that we have approved today, 150 million from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 600 million from the European Investment Bank, 100 million from Greece for a share from Levosoje to Neradovac and we have put one item in credit to the Russians, but it is possible that this will not be necessary. It's the Roundabout of Belgrade, 170 million. So today, we can already say that the financial structure is about closed for the realisation of this project. The rest is in our hands and is absolutely critical of everything you say if we don't finish it by then. Mr. Prelic asked a question and I agree, Mr. Prelyu, the Ojacs, the God, that should be a regional path. I think some measures have already been taken. As for the money, I will personally engage in the Road Company in the plan for next year to enter that stock, and I don't know, I don't know how the Capital Investments Fund works, I have to say it right now, but you're absolutely right, that road has to change its status. Mr Krasic, again, as did Mrs Tabakovic. Of course, international banks condition that, and you know it better than I do, all kinds of other things we can use something from, and we don't have to. If we need it, we can use it, if we don't have to, we don't have to. So what's important is that everything is transparent, that everything has to go to tenders. What is important, when spending international money, is that everything is subject to the review of their commissions and what is important, expert supervision must be a foreign consultant, that is what this refers to. That's where the numbers are known and there's no great opportunity for any, to be direct, to apologize for the term, to fly. Do I make myself clear, Mr. Krassic? Mr. Lapcevic, he gave me a chance again, and now I'm going to answer in detail. It won't be long. Of course the railroad, which doesn't matter to you, is my great love and, of course, that Corridor 10 is rail, in my understanding, and by the understanding of the state summit, I rarely speak that term, our greatest developmental opportunity. The road will end, but modernising Serbian railways according to the obligations we have made since 1991 towards European institutions to date were four international agreements, it is our duty to bring our railway, no matter how long it was a dream or a mirage, to the level of the two-wheel rail across the course of 160 km per hour and there is no cross-crossing across the tragic crossings at the level. That's what we have to do by 2016. In order to do this according to the prices of idea projects, we don't have in the government, we need four billion and 600 million. This government is realistically looking at it, I was a promoter, entered into the realization of part of the project, so that at least to Nis we can modernise the railway, for this railway, to finish the "Belgrade Node" that has the same status as "Gazal" in road traffic. The weakest point in Europe today is the "Belgrade Railway Node" and to modernise, or electrify from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, because it's like Texas, you're right. There's no power there, and that's Corridor 10, which is very important. It's our responsibility. It is a total of a billion and 100m euros, to be invested by the government. Today we're already working on three major projects, three shares. One is the lower machine – from Nis to Dimitrovgrad, and the funds are again provided from international loans. There's no problem in getting international money. So, please, when we talk about loans, I always ask the Ministry of Finance if we're in charge, not in charge, over-indebted? The answer is clear. You gave the answer yourself. If we are not in charge of the country, we must and should invest in infrastructure. I guess no one suspects that. As far as I'm concerned, the biggest support for these projects of ours is a Russian loan. I've never been disgusted by money, Mr. Krasic, Russian, Chinese, American, it's quite all the same, but also Russian credit, the Russians asked to put it into infrastructure. They know that money's coming back fast. One more thing. If we do what we said about the highway by the end of this government's mandate, if we do the first stage of modernising railways, billions and 100 million, then the net foreign exchange inflow, the biggest net foreign exchange inflow, Mr. Vlahovic knows it best and in the field of traffic, the plane lands – takes the money, if he can land, the train passes – we take the money, we get the money, we get the money, we get the boat, we get the money. I'm not even talking about Corridor 7. So, the biggest net foreign exchange inflow is in traffic, my dear MPs and MPs. I guarantee this will be back in 10 years and there is a degree of profitability of 14 or 15% of both projects. That's what's most important to you. Some other time, I don't want to bother you about these things. One more question so it doesn't go unsaid. Of course the Russians assumed we'd make a deal about the subway, but since I was a direct participant in the talks, as a member of the Mixed Committee, we're not ready today, we don't have an idea solution for the Belgrade subway, and the money should come by the end of the year. At least that's how people who are in Moscow talk. That's why we moved the Belgrade subway. Otherwise, the Russians still insist on this project – the key in hand, and I believe when conditions are obtained, when the documentation is prepared, that the Russians will again be one of the candidates for the Belgrade subway. We didn't throw out the subway to finance another project, we just moved it, and that went in favor of the railway highway. Once again, I must say thank you all, and I am especially pleased and pleasant. Please don't call my colleagues in the government because they're not here. This is where I was. If you think I didn't answer you correctly, I'm ready to answer as long as you want. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29324	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Is there anything else you wanted? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29325	After they pulled me out with the corridors, I forgot the Chinese. The agreement you adopt today has a provision on temporary application prior to entry into force, following the pre-contract. There's a contract going into effect on a credit agreement, and a credit agreement will be in front of you here. So there's no way you can't see a loan agreement for the Chinese side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29326	Thank you, Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, you are required to protect the dignity of the Assembly and, above all, those who address this assembly and, unfortunately, by their coalition partners are being humiliated in the worst possible way. You saw that. Here it applauds Mr. Mrkonjic, but for one reason, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, to shorten the discussion and not speak, because they didn't care at all what you said. They came here now only to vote, and you can only see this picture when some part of the agenda ends, when they're forced to come and put their cards into the MPs' units, and you, Madam President, are not responding. That's what the problem is when it comes to you, what you estimate when and how you have to react. Mr. Mrkonjic had, I can say, an emotional discussion because he's been in this business for many years, he likes his job to work and he considered it a commitment, which should be with all ministers, to respond practically to all remarks or observations of MPs who in this debate have shown enormous knowledge, that they have seen that they have studied good complete material and made their remarks, unlike the MPs of the ruling majority who are the only goal of completing it as soon as possible and...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-30-0.u29328	Thank you. It's been three minutes. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Mrkonjic enjoys the undivided trust and sympathy of not only the MPs but also the citizens of Serbia. I thank you for joining such ones, and indeed there was no harm to the Rules of Procedure. I am concluding a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I thank Mr. Minister and his associates for their active participation, Mr. Minister, in their work. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 30 October 2009, starting at 15.44 minutes, as the day for voting on the agendas of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, which means that we will now vote immediately. Please determine the voting quorum. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on: a proposal for a loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs, which means that we at least need 126 votes for each decision. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and I would like to make it clear. The vote was 130, of all 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The Government has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. The vote was 130, of all 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I remind you that the amendment of the Government is to Article 3. The bill, adopted by the National Assembly, provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts, shall enter into force as early as the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in its adoption. In the light of the amendment to Article 3. The draft law adopted by the National Assembly stated that it was part of Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must enter into force early on on that law for a reason stemming from the fact that the deadline for entry into force of the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is 120 days from the date of signing of the agreement. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particular reasons for the law to enter earlier than the eighth day of the day of its publication and I am asking that we make a statement. For 131 of 131 MPs. I find that by the majority of the votes of all MPs, the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote now only on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in general. For 131 MPs, and in all, so many of us were declared. I find that the National Assembly adopted a bill confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development by majority of the votes of all MPs. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation in the Area of Infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search under which this bill has been discussed, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of Article 105 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that no amendments have been submitted to this draft law, I am voting on the proposal for this law as a whole. For 148 of 149 MPs. I find that most of the votes of all the MPs have adopted the bill as a whole. We move on to the proposal for a bill confirming the Treaty of Cooperation between the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites and Amendments to the Cooperation Treaty between the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites and the Federal Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint single search under which this bill has been discussed, and before I move to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that no amendments have been submitted to this draft law, I would like to put the bill in general to the vote. For 131 MPs, of a total of 131 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill as a whole. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. We continue to work Monday at 10.00 hours, at the session, of course, we will work on the agenda points that we have already started, which is the second session of the Second Regular Session. [[Applause]]
