ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12975	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I went out on Article 1, which regulates the rights and obligations of the MPs, to take advantage of the start of today's assembly session, and otherwise, it is the 19th year of the multi-party system in Serbia, to say that today, on January 23rd, it is 19 years of the Serbian Radical Party. The Serbian Radical Party was founded in Batajnica, on 23 January 1990, by a group of intellectuals, national conscious Serbs, led by our ideologist and president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj. The following year, at the Second Fatherly Congress, in my native Kragujevac, in Shumadia, at the Congress of the Unification of the Serbian Chetnic Movement and the People's Radical Party, Prof. Vojislav Seselj was elected president of our Serbian Radicals. He is the founder of Serbian nationalism's ideology, today acceptable to Serbs wherever they live. That is why we today, in the sixth year of captivity, but within a few months we hope for freedom for our president, and therefore freedom for Serbia, in the 20th year of our existence, we have called, above all, nationally conscious young people, Serbian youth, members of the SRS, to mark at 17.00 hours in Kosovo Street in Zemun, by promoting the ideology of Serbian nationalism, the 19th year of our party's existence. Today, at the time of anti-globalism, the policy of the force that continues to be exercised by America and its Western allies, in a system of values that denies everything that is national value, when we should return to our faith, to the sanctity, to the Orthodoxy, we are Serbian radicals today, despite attempts to strike our party, in addition to attempts to crack, to take the mandate and to stab our president in the back, proud and happy that in Serbia we are the nation's largest, most organized and most powerful political party. We have held seven country congresses since that 1990, and the eighth one will be held here in Belgrade, headed by our President, Dr Vojislav Seselj. So I invite all young people, and I congratulate those who have turned 18 these days and joined the SRS, to follow our path, us who are party 18, some 19 years, some less, those who are two months or already how many days. There will be more and more of us from day to day, as the leadership role and position it will take on Serbia's political scene by returning Dr Vojislav Seselj is the future for Serbia. I welcome you, but I welcome all citizens of Serbia, especially the proud Radicals of Seselj, our traditional greeting - Serbia is eternal while her children are faithful, lived by Vojislav Seselj, lived by the SRS!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12976	Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12977	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Sabic, unfortunately, I have no good news and no congratulations, I have no jubilee celebrations, and I want to ask for the help and the media that are present and Mr Sabic, who should be doing this job that I want to advertise here. During 2008, 11m euros were spent on mosquito, tick and ambrosia prevention. The money was spent by the Ministry of Environmental Protection at the time of Minister Sasa Dragina, although the ministry is completely out of line for the job. Namely, the Ministry of Agriculture is in charge of ambrosia, while the Ministry of Health is responsible for ticks and mosquitoes. Of course, the money belonged to the citizens of Serbia, now it no longer belongs because Mr. Dragin spent it so easily. The DSS MPs have repeatedly asked the question, because it is not small funds and it is not small amounts to throw it away in this way. In addition, we have very precise laws and very precise responsibilities of the ministries, so it is very important that they be met. Since DSS MPs have repeatedly been resilient to receive this response, since obviously we have not received an answer from the ministry, we have finally done our job to get a notice, but not from the one to whom we have referred the question, which was the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, at this point the minister is Mr Dulic, but from Mr Dragin. That notice is everything, just not something the minister can send to the MPs. The first sentence is this: the ministry carried out control of the numbers of mosquitoes, ticks and ambrosia in early 2008. Look, the Ministry was counting ticks, mosquitoes and ambrosia. In the text below, I do not know what I would call what we have received, I pray, this has never happened, that what comes to the MPs in response to the parliamentary question of one MP – so, in the text of Minister Dragin, for these indifferences of his ministry and for the ease of spending 11m euros, it is a clean theft, calling for a draft law (not a bill but a draft law) and then explain to us that this ministry, completely unsettling for these jobs, had to resort to giving jobs to various companies because, he says, it required the urgency of the job at that moment. Look, this part of the job includes the constant actions that take place. Please, Mr. Shabic, use your authority to send an adequate response. Gentlemen, it's 11m euros. Why doesn't anyone mention this? Secondly, I will use my right to question the budget inspection later, to ask the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12978	The word is Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12979	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. So, before me, Ms. Milica Vojic-Markovic asked one question about the obvious accidental spending of budget funds. It's a sum of over 850 million dinars. The answer we requested from the competent institutions was received from Mr Sasa Dragin, the current Minister of Agriculture, and in the past term the Minister of Environmental Protection. So Mr Dragin informed us that the money was spent by his ministry in that term counting mosquitoes and ticks and ambrosia plants in January. We now see that simply the whole of Serbia is flooded with mosquitoes, flying everywhere in January. Ambrosia blooms in January of the month, pumpkins bloom in January of the month. At the invitation of Mr. Dragin and his chief of staff to come to the Ministry of Agriculture personally to explain himself to me, or to bring me into the Ministry of Agriculture and to give me some papers, he sent his assistant, Mr. Pajtic. That gentleman brought those papers, but when I asked him to give me a photocopy, he said he couldn't give it to me. Is that a secret? All the papers were signed, the Ministry's seal and the signature of Minister Sasa Dragina. So, in January and February, the month counts mosquitoes and numbers ambrosia. We're probably living in another climate, probably Brazil, but we're just not aware. The explanation Mr. Dragin gave us also states that he is calling for a bill when spending the funds. So there's a document. He says, "I spent 11m euros on the draft of the law." We warn, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection doesn't answer and he doesn't care. You win, you run out of time, you'll see soon enough. So in writing, I asked the same question to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and there is no answer. He's not here because there's no such thing as stealing an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12980	National MP Elena Christmas-Talian.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 104, 225 and 226. The issue is addressed to the Ministry of Health, with a request to urgently deliver the opinion of a medical expert in the psychiatric profession. I would also ask you, Madam President, to find a way to protect MPs from individuals who do not rule themselves, especially when these individuals are illegally in the Assembly. Yesterday, we were all witnesses of the unarticulated sounds Tomislav Nikolic made. I was sitting in the front row, right in front of the pay phone, and I had a... It has been a very traumatic experience for me in both visual and sonic terms, so I would ask you, if you can, to find a way to protect MPs who do not rule themselves, especially from those who have publicly admitted here as speakers that they do not rule themselves. He's not the only one who needs professional help. And his deputy Alexander Vukic is also in a difficult mental state. The SRS medical team analyzed Alexander Vukic's case. Now I'm going to read you the conclusions he's come to. Aleksandar Vukic announced for days that he would file criminal charges against himself because he took a million and a half euros from Miskovic. It was the first obvious indicator of his poor mental condition. Alexander Vukic is an expert lawyer, and the elemental thing would have to know. To file a criminal complaint, a legal basis is required. The fact that Vukic took a million and a half euros from Miskovic is not a crime, it is a simple exchange. The wolf participates in the coup against the SRS and gets the money for it. It's extremely immoral, but it's not a crime. Second, for criminal charges, there should be a perpetrator of a criminal offence and damaged as a applicant. In this case, it's the Wolf versus the Wolf. This situation could only be accepted if schizophrenia became a legal category. So Vukic exhibits elemental ignorance in his profession, and this is due to the severe mental state he is in. Also, there is a concern that it can endanger the safety and safety of its loved ones. Vukic daily announced that he would jump from the top of the building, quote: "I will jump from the top of any building, and I will jump on his head." The SRS medical team is seriously concerned and considers that there are indications that Aleksandar Vukic is in a difficult mental state. That is why, especially because of the danger of jeopardizing himself, it is necessary to respond to the appropriate health care that will perform the emergency hospitalisation, which is in the best interest of Alexander Vukic and his surroundings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12982	Mrs. Italian, I am convinced that the rules of procedure that will be brought to us will solve the problem of this kind of communication that you have presented. He has the word Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12983	Dear Madam President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I will not use the speaker for wishes, congratulations and greetings of party nature, nor will I speak of ticks and mosquitoes. I'd like to take this opportunity to call in a breach of Article 104 and call in an article. 225 and 226, and to express, as a representative of the LDP parliamentary group, the dissatisfaction and protest over the political provocation that took place yesterday in parliament, which can also be called political incorrection by the Colloquial speaker, but which is a serious violation of our country's criminal-processing rules and our country's international obligations. Yesterday, the guest of an MP club was Mr. Miladin Kovacevic, who is being prosecuted. It's not just political provocation and political incorrection, it's a serious violation of procedural rules. Therefore, please, Madam President, that future provocations of this kind do not take place and that no criminal-processing rules are violated in the Assembly which we are all obliged to comply with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12984	Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12985	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. I am amazed that speakers can hear such words that some procedural rules have been broken or that the Serbian Parliament should be divided into the right of citizens of the first order and citizens of the second order, especially when it comes to citizens whose lives are at stake because the greatest economic and military force of this world is trying to come to this man, which is unequivocally confirmed in the statements of many US officials, who had to flee from this "democratic" state, a state in which the right exists, but only for certain citizens. For second-class citizens, that right doesn't exist. When someone comes up to protect their fundamental and human rights, it's the one who got into protection, not the one who violated those rights. We have the same case when it comes to Dr. Vojislav Seselj, an unprecedented case. Indicted before The Hague, he defends himself in a way that he thinks suits him the most, and the court accuses him of contempt. It's just amazing. I don't think there's any law in any country of the world that forbids the defendant to defend himself in the way he thinks he's fit, whether he's good or not. I don't have a Hillary Clinton statement here, which should be the U.S. Secretary of State, who unequivocally says he will do anything to find Miladin Kovacevic in the United States, I can't quote because I don't have a document to use the Kosovo police for that purpose. If you translate that into a simple language, Hillary Clinton says she'll kidnap Miladin Kovacevic, bring him to the United States and probably sentence him to life imprisonment. Is that democracy and that right for which someone stands? As far as the SRS is concerned, we'll never stand for such a thing. We will always stand for the defense of human rights and freedom, and no one will ever be guilty of us before a judicial verdict is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12986	Ms. Elena Christmas-Talian, and then Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 225 and 226. We demand an answer from Boris Tadic and from the president of the ZES parliamentary group, Mrs Nada Kolundzija. Mrs. Kolundjia made a scandalous statement yesterday, and I'm going to quote her, "I think radicals have a problem with themselves. I will personally propose to the Committee on Foreign Affairs not to be representatives of the SRS in a delegation scheduled to attend the session of the Council of Europe on Sunday, because they violate all the rules of the Council of Europe." You here in parliament, I mean the ruling majority, you're trying to impose a completely unnatural atmosphere as a natural. In fact, the ruling majority has seized unlimited power through tycoons that are a key factor in political life in Serbia. It is known that tycoons, together with the American and British ambassadors, participated in the formation of a government in this system. From the position of this unlimited power you give yourself the right to violate the Constitution and the law, to end the electoral will of the citizens in the most harsh way possible, whenever it is in your interest. God forbid someone raises their voice against that unlimited power of yours and God forbid someone tries to protect their rights; it must be silenced at all costs and declared enemy number one. I don't know what rule of the Council of Europe violates the SRS, but I know what rules you're breaking. You should no longer refer to European standards, to the civilizational fluids of the heritage of Europe, because you persistently trample them. These include political rights and freedoms, and political rights and freedoms include freedom of opinion and expression. You value those values in the harshest possible way to suppress them. This is only one in a sea of examples to prove it, and this is yesterday's Mrs. Nada Kolundjia's statement, as well as this announcement of a run for a new Rules of Procedure which, apparently, should silence the opposition, i.e. legal representatives of citizens in parliament. You move quickly and safely towards the end of democracy. We today in Serbia instead of democracy have "tacunocracy", and your "tecunocracy" threatens the opposition that is trying to protect its rights. You have made it possible for a parliamentary group to be formed at the SRS' kidnapped mandates. You've legalized the theft of Tomislav Nikolic. So you can undermine all rights of the SRS, forbid us to try in a legal and legitimate way to protect our rights and seek what belongs to us according to the Constitution and the law. Because we are trying to protect our rights you have decided to abolish our freedom of opinion and expression through the new Rules of Procedure and to discriminate us in the most harsh way possible, because you want to prohibit our delegation from participating in the Council of Europe's session. (President: Time. I'm done. The question is, are we Members of the lower order? We demand an answer from Mrs. Kolundjia. What does this discrimination mean? Is this her personal position, is it Boris Tadic's order and does the President of the Republic discriminate against elected citizens' representatives? So we urgently demand an answer and an explanation from Boris Tadic and Mrs Kolundzija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12988	Miss Natasa Jovanovic has the word, so do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12989	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me continue this story initiated by my colleague Elena Christmas-Talian. I'm referring to Article 239. The Rules of Procedure, which you all probably know very well and which speaks of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia establishing the composition of permanent parliamentary delegations representing the Assembly in international organisations and parliaments, such as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, by taking account of the proportionate representation of political parties and gender representation. Mr. Martinovic, as a master of legal science, has repeatedly held here, indeed in a professorial manner, a class of democracy and explained to you that the political party is someone who registers, as it was registered, you heard, in ancient 1990, on January 23rd, by establishing the Serbian Free movement Serbian Radical Party. He goes to parliamentary elections, wins parliamentary seats, and thus he is a legitimate representative of the people who can be someone treated under Article 239. Rules of Procedure. Hope for Kolundji, except that she gave amazingly, and I don't really have, Madam President, a second term, that's really not an ugly word, a stupid statement, really, because she doesn't even know the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Europe, and apparently not the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is impossible for her to have her aversion and because her favorites are citizens, who are no legitimate representatives here and who, at any time, by decision, I believe, will have to step out of the assembly benches and not pretend to represent any party... She made a statement that astounded the entire Serbian public. I think if he heard one of the representatives of the Council of Europe, the President of Parliament, the secretary or anyone there, he could be amazed by the fact that the president of the parliamentary group of coalitions that is in power has such elemental ignorance. So the woman doesn't care what she says. First, because of the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Committee on Accreditation of New MPs, when this happens and when the session comes to vote, does not enter at all how business is arranged for us in the Serbian Parliament to elect MPs who are members of the delegation, except that full representation must be present, such as the presence of committees and committees. Now Hope Kolundji, who never first entered the Council of Europe building... At least you could have sent her away, or taught her or given her the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly or you, Professor. Micunovic, who on several occasions was an MP at the Council of Europe Assembly to teach your younger colleague not to talk that kind of nonsense. It's impossible for anyone to... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Declares the largest opposition party in the Serbian parliament. I'm finishing up, I'm sorry, I was quoting, it took me about 30 seconds, Madam President. Especially because of the fact that we Serbian radicals, as well as others, as did counterpart Donka Banovic, who was also in the old council, Miss Elvira Kovac and others, Prof. Micunovic, Mrs Vuckovic, received calls for a regular session that starts Monday and for the work and participation of committees. So, Mr. Micunovic, and today we're going to talk about it at the Committee session at 13:30, teach your colleague, Hope Kolundji, because she simply knows nothing about the Council of Europe and sending delegations, except for the resistance towards the SRS and the militia towards these apostates from our party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12990	Unfortunately, it is obvious that today we will not be able to realize a session, where we really need to choose delegations. I'm really sorry that because of the atmosphere we've been working in these days and, look, we're starting today, we won't be able to do it today. The word is Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12991	Madam President, I appeal to the same members of the Rules of Procedure that I have recently called upon and, with apologies for reporting to the Rules of Procedure again, I would like to make an explanation. In our protest, it's not about what the U.S. government is doing, it's their business. It's about domestic justice and what our judicial authorities are doing. It's about breaking domestic procedural rules. It's not about ignoring the presumption of innocence, it's about putting pressure on the court, which is a serious violation of all segments of criminal proceedings. Therefore, do not use legal ignorance to defend your political interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12992	Thank you. For the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commissioner for Public Information Act, you have received a decision amending the Service for Public Information, No 02-3304/08 of 4 December 2008, a Regulation on the Internal Organisation and Systematization of Jobs in the Service of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, No 02-305/08 of 4 December 2008 and a report of the Administrative Committee with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commissioner for Public Information Act of 18 December 2008. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 parliamentary group plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS Group - Vojislav Kostunica - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the sending group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS - six minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: Jorgovanka Tabakovic - Parliament Group Advanced Serbia, Radojko Obradović - DSS and Vladan Jeremic - SRS. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, chairman of the Administrative Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's MP, Vladan Jeremic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12993	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the father of the modern economy Adam Smith, author of the unconquered work "Researching the nature and cause of the people's wealth", said once when little is needed for the country to rise from the lowest barbarity to the highest degree of abundance, except for peace, low taxes and good distribution of justice, and that everything else brings a natural order of things. If this basic postulate of social development is contained in such simple wisdom, the question arises why are some countries making progress while others are turning back? Which is why, for example, Serbia is not progressing, why does every month thousands of citizens fall below the poverty line, while hundreds of thousands of others are approaching the border? The answer lies in the fact that since Serbia has been trying to transform itself into a market economy, which means that it becomes an open society, the interest of much of the business elite is that the slower and more unquality the problem of corruption is taking place or, simplistically, the problem of corruption. Defined as an abuse of trusted public authority for private benefit, we see it as a social evil. The problem in Serbia is a different character than in countries where there is a rule of law. The problem in Serbia is systemic nature, and the fight is a long-term process, which means reforms need to be implemented in order to pass good, mutually harmonised laws and create strong, professional institutions, which can guarantee the application of the law. Important links in this fight are the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the State Audit Authority and the Committee for the Accessibility of Public Information. The topic of congregation debates is two of the last mentioned factors. It finally started with some kind of realization. The state audit institution, which is otherwise crucial for controlling budget spending and privatisation, faces a lack of room for normal work, three years since the adoption of the relevant laws practically begins work. The institution's passivity has allowed no final budget accounts since 2002 to be adopted in Serbia's parliament. By obtaining an adequate number of employees, the institution will no longer be in a position to return funds due to inactivity, as it did last year. It is inadmissible that financial, personnel and technical constraints prevent the proper functioning of the Public Procurement Administration and the Commission for the protection of the rights of tenderers. It is incomprehensible that because of the lack of work space, the Protector of the Rights of Citizens only employs half of the jobs. Mr. Rodoljub Sabic also returned funds to the state register, as the space allocated to the trustee service was sufficient for only seven employees, and the conditions for the institution's work are also far from optimal. In addition, it is evident that the Law on Free Access to Information, so to speak, is a Bushan, especially when it comes to criteria for the classification of information, which makes it even more difficult to implement it. Although the law has been in force for more than four years, it has become clear to the public in Serbia that all public enterprises, I think that 28 of them, whose founder of the state hides them as a snake leg, are the height of the monthly receipt of their management staff, and only three have a published labour informer, although they are bound by the law. The same law also stipulates the obligation of state authorities, Article 47, to sanction a responsible person in a state body with a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars if the state authority fails to produce an informer with prescribed data on its work. Control over law enforcement has a ministry responsible for information affairs, which in this case is the Ministry of Culture. To this day, however, no public enterprise or responsible person has been punished for failing to fulfill their legal obligation. All three public enterprises whose founder of the state on their website have been published by a labour informer, where the monthly salary of the director of public enterprises should be found as one of the data. The informer has announced to the public the Public Forest Management Company "Serbiasum", the Republic Fund for PIO and Telekom Srbija, but without the level of monthly admissions of leadership and board of directors. The monthly salaries of the directors and president of the boards of directors of public enterprises, thanks above all to the information they came to and presented to the public by the MPs of the SRS, amounted to up to 800,000 dinars. For the sake of comparison, even monthly salaries by the President of the Republic or the Government are several times less. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the main issue is that the laws in this country are absolutely not respected. Therefore, despite multiple warnings by the Trustee, it is possible that the number of persons who publish the information may be slightly increased and mainly without data on the salaries and costs of the team. The ministry is competent to exercise supervision and initiate criminal proceedings, as we have already established, does not. So, one bad relationship between the executive authority and this obligation, as well as the government's obligation to ensure, in the event of a need, the execution of the trustee's solutions, is, in fact, only inciting non-discipline under the law. Then when other instruments come up with information and when the case turns into an affair or scandal, we all remember very well "the Count of Monte Krishta", the government has just announced that it will question the compensation policy. Should we have waited for an affair and that the debate over the level of income is not much more important than the fact that there is chaos in state-owned companies' remuneration policy, without any minimum single criteria? The greatest absurd is that such a distasteful availability of state capital in public enterprises, just like the huge salaries of the people who run them, is in total dissatisfaction with the results of most of these companies' work. Here's one thing: out of the 499 companies that delivered the financial reports to the NBS, the large part had a negative business balance, which was 16 billion dinars or even 80% higher than in the year before. Their executives have their huge receptions defending the work results. That's funny. In a group of losers, of course, it's not, like, the cream society of state companies. However, it is companies dealing with the activities that are being done everywhere in the world, whether it is the owner of states or private shareholders, that are making the biggest profit. Our NIS, for example, is on the throne among the most profitable only thanks to the fact that only in its refineries is processed oil. I guess that's why it's Article 3. Decisions on the business secret of the NIS, made by the company's shareholders' assembly, have been defined to be considered as a business secret by the individual salary of each employee, so Milos Saramandic's salary of 400,000 dinars is only unofficial. A recent survey of the Deloyt Advisory House has shown that in all of Central Europe, the strongest companies dealing with oil, gas or electricity are the strongest, but in this competition NIS is located only 22nd, behind the Croatian company INA and a very small Slovenian MOL. When it comes to electricity production, EPS is 79th among the 500 strongest companies in central Europe. Of them, as many as 18 electricity companies are financially stronger than EPS. But in defence of their incomes, which average several times more than the average salary in the Republic, managers talk about the region, successes, and even when their financial results are down. So, for example, the first man "Serb Railway" has a net salary of around 250,000 dinars, although, as you well know, for the work of this company, taxpayers have traditionally allocated funds. So one of the subsidies in the past years was as many as 11 billion dinars. There's a lot of work for the trustee. The EPS leader earns nearly 300,000 dinars a month, while the chairman of the Board of Directors receives two and a half average earnings, which translates into 113,000 dinars. From the company "Trans Oil", it is official that the chairman of the Management Board receives 69,000 dinars per month, his deputy two thousand less, members of the Management Board receive 52,500 dinars, and the CEO, off the record, 200,000 dinars. The "Yat Airways" is right in the clouds. The Director-General's salary is 286,000 dinars, the chairman of the Management Board receives 87,000 and members of 55,000 dinars. It's interesting that, by the rules, the general's income can only be reduced by a congregation of shareholders who, imagine this, in the "Yat Airways" still doesn't exist. Since gas is announced, after that 60% will soon accumulate by another 18%, although as we have heard it will not be in recent times, not in February and March, but since April, it should not be surprising that the first man of the board of directors receives only about 279,000 dinars a month. The Count of Monte Krisht is already known. We're waiting, though, for the budget inspection report. All of these figures, with at least five or six zeroes, probably wouldn't be that kind of finger in the eye if, say, they knew clearly what the presidents and board members were doing in the first place. But board seats are nothing more than part of a post-election package of authorities. They're party people, people, without the right to make decisions. That's what the CEOs are in charge of. Due to these things and a series of other examples, which will later be pointed out by fellow SRS MPs, you, Mr Sabic, are as the Trustee, an extremely important link in the fight against the biggest obstacles to the establishment of the rule of law, the rule of law, the creation of effective institutions, economic development and the country's social stability. It is clear to all here, regardless of political belongings, that the consequences of corruption are seen both on the economic plan, by jeopardising the market economy, by reducing the social product, by increasing the country's debt, by the socio-political plan, by mistrust of citizens in institutions and the like. After all, successfully confronting this monster is one of the main factors measured in the process of accession, to you dear, to the European Union, as well as in assessing compliance with the standards of the Councils of Europe. Should it be reminded, for example, that Romanians and Bulgarians are being moved to the EU due to a high degree of corruption? The problem is that the processed number of corruption cases is disproportionate to the number of occurrences that are publicly indicated with suspicion. It takes strict application of legal standards, and not only their regulation, because that is the only way to protect society from this threat and obstacles to the development of each country. It's right here, Mr. Shabic, your role. Life in Serbia is more expensive on average because of corruption by 20%. Corruption in Serbia is more closely witnessed by the Report of the Group of States to Fight Corruption of the Council of Europe (GREKO), which was otherwise adopted at the organisation's meeting in Strasbourg, held on June 13th 2008, and remained almost unknown to the general public. The report on compliance for the Republic of Serbia after the first and second rounds of evaluation states that Serbia has applied or acted satisfactorily in only half of the 25 obstacles previously addressed to it. The state's reaction in a number of areas key to fighting corruption has been assessed as partial and unsatisfactory. The criticisms are, of course, directed to the team on account of the lack of rules, system holes in the legislation, as well as inadequate powers and resources at the disposal of control institutions, where your trust is included, which are therefore not able to perform their functions properly. The anti-corruption strategy should include effective application of anti-corruption regulations, prevention, public support for the implementation of the envisaged measures. Recent reports by European institutions have shown that, instead of consistent implementation, anti-corruption measures are obstructed in the interest of political parties, tycoon and crime by state authorities. So the basic source is no longer the rigidity of the system, but the very uncertainty that surrounds it. The reduction of corruption costs, and for this a substantial sum of state money must be allocated. The reduction of corruption leads to fair competitions and the economic development of the country, as the reduction of corruption by 1% leads to an increase of 0.5% of gross national income. To conclude, it is necessary to allow free access to information relating to budget planning and implementation and all monetary transactions of state and public enterprises in a way to make available to citizens, thus achieving the visibility of cash flows, in particular a review of budgets and various funds. It is necessary to effectively implement laws against everyone, not selectively, as it still does, and this would lead to the rule of law and the return of citizens' trust in both the state and its institutions. It is high time that the link I spoke about at the beginning of my presentation began with concrete work, because Serbian citizens will not mean anything to get institutions when all transition jobs are completed and everything that had to be shared is divided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12994	Thank you. I would like to remind you that Mr Kenan Hajdarevic has asked MP question 1. 12. In 2008, Interior Minister Ivica Dacic, so today he and I are making an emergency about the answer, regarding the issue. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) The word is Mr. Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12995	Madam President and Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Sabic, the acts presented to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia concerning your institution and the acts delivered and related to the State Auditing Institution were, as well, being forced to finally come before the republican parliament to the initiative of the MPs of the SRS, which was supported by other political parties. As far as your institutions are concerned, your institution is extremely important to democracy in Serbia, to respect basic human and political rights. It is an institution that should allow citizens of Serbia, bodies and institutions to be informed of all important, relevant, decisive facts for the functioning of the authorities and institutions in Serbia, and I repeat, for the achievement of basic human and political rights, in line with international acts ratified by the Republic of Serbia. From the moment you were elected Commissioner and when the state formed this institution, I had the opportunity to make sure that you faced a number of obstacles, to set up a number of barriers just to avoid accessing information and data that are of any importance to the citizens of Serbia, especially where it is a violation of fundamental human rights and when it comes to economic crime. It is essential that your acts delivered to the National Assembly be adopted. This institution must be so ranked with the State Auditor, that the work of your institution and the institution of the State Auditor should be synchronised and that you exchange information with each other so that you can, in case you encounter a violation of basic human rights and where economic crime flourishes, act as a prevention, indicate and provide certain data to the state authorities, as well as to citizens. What is a lack of law relating to your institution is that there is no materially regulated sanctions in an adequate sense, because there are no adequate sanctions for those who do not respect your requirements of general interest. If, in a law relating to the work of the Commissioner, punishments are prescribed as criminal acts, they don't violate... I'll talk about the State Auditor, you'll see, it's funny how much punishment there is if the request is not respected and they don't meet their obligations to the State Auditor. That applies to you, too. If in nothing, this law has to endure changes in a material and legal sense in order to prescribe punishment as a crime and punishment for those who bypass, the evasive ones have imagined that they are power and untouchable without respecting an important institution in the general interest of our citizens. So the basic and previous question for your institution's functioning is... You're an expert man, you're both capable and professional men according to all those criteria you meet all the conditions to run that institution. In this assembly you've been a folk MP long ago, you're a graduate lawyer, a lawyer, so no one can object to your expertise. But as a previous question, conditions must be provided for you, these conditions are the material position of employees and, on the other hand, the business space. With regard to the State Auditor, I want to speak at the same time about your conditions regarding your performance, and how important, functions. They're wrong if they underestimate your institution, one day she'll live and how. Here, you'll see when I talk about the state auditor now. Finally, after 150 years, nearly 200, a state auditor is being introduced in Serbia. I note, everything will be in vain unless the sanctions are taken, and it's like criminal acts, for those who deny you the right to access certain data, especially when it comes to economic crime, especially when crime is where powers close doors, you can't even enter, you can write a hundred times. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Your institution and the institution of the state auditor are constitutional categories. As far as your decision to change your name is concerned, in any case, logically, because the law predicted it only complies with the applicable law. As far as systematization is concerned, this is quite understandable that in your systematization you provide for certain sectors: to improve public rights, the sector of appeal and complaints about the availability of information, the sector for the central register and the conditions for data processing, the data processing rights sector, the supervisory sector and the sector for joint operations. I think this is necessary for an institution, such as your institution, to be very important, to be able to function and that this must be respected. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since yesterday under certain circumstances it was short for the SRS MPs to expose everything they thought in relation to the State Auditor, and since the State Auditor and the Commissioner for Public Information were in a close and narrow relationship, I would like to talk a little bit today about the State Auditing Institution. When it comes to the State Auditing Institution, I must say that it is also a constitutional category, prescribed by Articles 92 and 96. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which accurately and specifically foresees the institution and gives it certain powers to act in accordance with the Constitution as the highest legal act in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution, after a long time, the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution was put on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the Law on the State Auditing Institution was adopted in 2005 and announced on 21 November 2005. Article 58 of that Law stipulates that within six months of the date of entry into force of this Law, the election of the President, Vice-Presidents and members of the Council should be made, and the provision of Article 59 of that Law stipulates that the State Auditing Institution should adopt a Rules of Procedure on Labour and contribute to the National Assembly's consent, as this institution did on time and time. Fourth, the National Assembly is required, under Article 59(2), to give its consent to the Rules of Procedure within three months. However, the State Audit Institute sent its Rules of Procedure to the National Assembly, to give its consent, on 24 December 2007, so more than a year and a half ago. Article 62. The law is prescribed to elect the Supreme Auditor and State Auditor, from Articles 27 and 28 of this Act, to be implemented within six months of the election day of the Council. The initial programme, which implies a cross-section, as provided for in Article 63, must be delivered to the competent working body of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within 90 days, and this working body is the Finance Committee. By order of Article 65. The law is normised that the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and will apply within six months of its entry into force. Thus, with the establishment of working bodies, councils, the adoption and adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Auditing Institution is very late, which has adverse consequences for the Republic of Serbia, for its citizens and for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the audit institution is concerned, the Council of this institution by a provision of Article 35 has established that the institution is audited on the basis of an annual audit programme, which is required to adopt before the end of the year for the next calendar year. The institution shall decide independently on the entities of the audit, the subject, the scope and type of audit, the time of start and the duration. This question is questionable, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Why is it so controversial? It is not possible for an institution as a state auditor to choose selectively who will be screened, who will be asked for data and in which part, of which local self-government, province institutions, a particular ministry or about the budget of the Republic. I also believe that SRS MPs insist that it is necessary to establish social control over budget spending by budgetary users. But we think that this is wrong, that this will not produce enough results, that this institution chooses, or that by recommendation it determines which organs it will control and from whom it will ask for certain data. That, in our opinion, is a major problem that will in practice arise. As regards the state auditor and the audit programme, the following institutions are required to be audited: the budget of the Republic of Serbia, compulsory social security, the corresponding number of units of local self-government. It's not clear why a certain number, I guess it's meant to control all budget users. Who gave someone the right now to choose which, I repeat, local self-government to control? Here, all those who use budget funds must be subject to control from getting a shoe shoe shoe to building a bridge. Then, the business of the National Bank of Serbia relating to the use of public funds. Why not control the entire bank, but only what concerns the use of public funds? The corresponding number of public enterprises. Why are they responding? All public enterprises must control, my dear brothers. Legal entities established by a direct or indirect user of public funds and having a share in capital, i.e. management. In Article 35 of that Law, it is normised that the institution may hire auditors of state audit institutions of other countries. What do we need it for? What will Serbia hire some, let us call experts from abroad, and Serbia has such professional potential that it can send its experts to the EU to control how certain funds are used, especially the funds of donations and UN funds used, or individual countries? So, on the basis of reciprocity, does this stand in any law in the EU that our experts can audit their public institutions and audit their budget? There is no such thing as not to be fooled, that we do not predict in advance norms that someone can unaccountably hire someone from any country to come to salt our brains, share expertise and prescribe what is a criminal act and what is not, whether it was intended use of funds or not. In addition, to mention, most importantly, it costs the state a lot. This shouldn't be allowed. Therefore, amendments to the law must also be made in certain segments and in certain norms. The current Law on the State Auditing Institution must be amended and complemented as soon as possible and adapted to the new conditions and circumstances in our country. In the current law, there are shortcomings relating to the subject matter of the audit, the entities of the audit, when calling the auditor in relation to the audit programme, the audit standards, the free access of auditors to audit documents, the collection of notices before the start of the audit, the beginning and completion of the audit in relation to the conditions for the work of the institution, the equal position of the supreme and state auditors and other employees in that institution, in particular when it comes to criminal provisions. All this requires a better and more precise text of the law. It is therefore necessary to access amendments and additions to the Law on the State Auditing Institution. SRS MP Master Martinovic spoke yesterday about some inconsistencies when it comes to budget control and other budget beneficiaries. Without the Commissioner for Information and without the State Auditor, you can have hundreds of thousands of police officers and thousands of prosecutors, thousands and thousands of judges, who will not be able to make any decision, nor can they open any operational processing, nor collect data on perpetrators of criminal acts without a state auditor. Serbian citizens must know that the Social Accounting Service was abolished after 2000. The key question is, why has the new democratic authority abolished the Social Accounting Service? So she could control herself without being controlled by anyone else on the side. Not to control when he went to bed and woke up, but how whoever uses the budget used it, whether he used it for use or not, whether it was abuse or not. That's the basic question. The state auditor is a gun to your budget and budget users, which means you don't need to run, and everyone's afraid of the state auditor, they're afraid of the trustee. Why? Not to reveal certain malfeasances, not to detect crime, abuse. That's the problem. Gentlemen, here is a question: why does Serbia not have the central property register it owns? Why do we have no record of who is using the property of the Republic of Serbia and on what legal basis is the use of the property of the Republic of Serbia, who pays and who does not pay for the use of state property? Serbia must have a precise and accurate register of property, not to suffer damage in this way. As for the conditions for the work of the State Auditing Institution, I insisted, and on several occasions I spoke in the National Assembly about it, twice I went to check the conditions of the State Auditing Institution and convinced myself, such as yesterday the MPs of the SRS, which I support in any case, presented and established, that the State Auditing Institution is working in one room of the former Federal Assembly. In this connection, the State Auditing Institution and the Public Trustee must be provided with adequate business space, as separate institutions separate from all bodies and other institutions. Every state auditor must have a special office, as it is in other countries. Imagine, in Europe, I will repeat, only Serbia and the Vatican do not have a state audit institution that works. Let me remind you, I believe you know, if someone did not pay attention and was unable to find out – Canada introduced a state auditor in 1878. For what? To control the mob using the budget. That's the problem. The state auditor can't be disturbed, he's being influenced by any pressure. The selection of the Supreme State Auditor, i.e. the authorised State Auditor, must be careful, noteworthy, careful and responsiblely executed, and the criteria for his choice are, above all, expertise, qualifications, work experience, where the choice must not be made on the party line, in a feudal manner. Serbia has great professional potential and staff that can successfully carry out the tasks of a state-owned, or authorised auditor at the State Auditing Institution. These personnel are in budget inspections, tax administrations; they are also experts from the former Social Accounting Service and members of the criminal police. I note that there are a lot of professional police inspectors who can, with experts from the former SDK, be hired and do this job responsibly. I would rather trust them than those proposed and elected by any political party in Serbia. As far as business space is concerned, this is interesting what I am about to tell you, for the work of the State Auditing Institution in Belgrade: there is one building to be taken over by the Agency (see, please, notice) for the recovery of banks and assigned to the State Auditing Institution, because it is property of the state of the Republic of Serbia. There are plenty of buildings like that in Belgrade. Many banks in Belgrade went bankrupt and now huge business spaces are used by bankruptcy managers with several employees, and several thousand square metres of business space. Therefore, it is the property of the state of the Republic of Serbia and must be allocated to the state auditor and the Public Information Trustee, and it is not the property of the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks, or that agency. With regard to the business space to be provided for the State Auditing Institution, I am taking this opportunity to ask a parliamentary question and ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia for answers: how many square meters of business space in the former banks in Belgrade run by the Bank Rehabilitation Agency? The exact question is, and I expect the correct answer: how many square meters is there and where in Belgrade is alienated from former banks, who and at what price? How much free space do the former banks in Belgrade have, their location and total area? The state auditor is not an ordinary accountant, but is the top budget controller of the Republic of Serbia and all other budget beneficiaries in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the state auditor is an irreplaceable supervisor of the banking system in all modern democratic states with a regulated legal system. As regards the provision of the working conditions of the audit institution, it must have the necessary and appropriate equipment. With the special building and the necessary equipment, we can expect that institution to play that role for which it was founded. Public speculation is that Serbia does not have experts in the budgets and the State Auditing Institution, however, it is not true; a matter of material position needs to be resolved before, as the SRS MPs spoke yesterday. It is difficult today to find the necessary experts to be in office of a state auditor or an authorised state auditor, with a salary of 60,000 dinars. The minimum double salary must have a State Auditor and a Public Information Trustee. They are exposed to many influences, pressures, both vertically and horizontally. Therefore, the basic question is to provide material resources for the functioning of these two institutions. You will see, if the state auditor's material position improves so that his salary is 100,000 - 200,000, it's not a sin, it's not a pity for Serbia, because these people will save billions of people from unintended use of state funds from the budget. That's the problem. Therefore, the material position as the previous issue must be resolved in these two institutions. First, if you mean that famous NIP, so please, 40, 50, 60 billion dinars no one controls. Who's in control? Nobody. A woman from Triestenik was offered to be minister. She came to use and manage 40 billion taxpayers' dinars. Well, you have cases like that so his father wouldn't let him keep ten goats and hold one household, not even with two goats, as Mr Batic said. You may think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia chooses such a minister to manage 100 billion dinars without being controlled by anyone! It can't be like that. When it comes to public procurement, it's a disaster. There's no one here who knows... You know who drinks and you know who pays, the taxpayers pay, and they drink those consumers who take money in this way, they put their hands up to their shoulders in the pockets of taxpayers. So, if the Trustee and the State Auditor are provided with the appropriate conditions... I note that it must be taken care of because in Western countries, the state auditor has a special office and the authorised auditor has his own office. No one can enter his office until he registers, and neither can his head of state's auditor. The card has to register that he got into that and that auditor, the day of that and that, and that, and that's why the note is recorded, and not the Kurt and the Murt, to walk through that house like a bus station, as anyone likes it, can't do it. The Serbian Radical Party and I believe that the state audit should be given special attention. It is a budget that has been worth 10, 15 and 20 billion euros over the past few years. Who controlled that? Nobody. There's no evidence of that, no final budget spending account from 2001 to today. So, ladies and gentlemen, in some countries you have an accounting court. The German constitution provides for Germany to have a financial court, and the financial court is now controlling the budget funds of public users. Slovenia has an accounting court. Why should Serbia not have an appropriate institution, but to write down crimes, to sanction anyone who does not respect the provisions of the law. As far as the budget is concerned, the National Assembly must be the supervisory authority that has to oversee the spending of this budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't take time for my colleagues to talk about this agenda and these acts in front of the National Assembly. We believe that if the state forms these institutions, it must invest, but it is expected of you and the State Auditor the result. By recommending you, Mr. Sabic, to go public freely, wherever you have problems, behind your real and justifiable reasons, the MPs of the SRS will stand in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12996	The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. You have 36 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Sabic, here, finally in the Assembly of Two Acts, two documents on which the Serbian Radical Party directly or indirectly insisted for quite a long time behind us, two documents that should in principle institutionalise the work of two services, two bodies that, you say, represent the anti-corruption potential in this country. The Serbian Radical Party has indicated the need for the existence of these two institutions (and the one we talked about yesterday and the one today) in this parliament when there were laws on the agenda, namely a set of anti-corruption laws, judicial laws. We tried to point out bad occurrences in terms of corruption when we talked about the budget, about a bill that supports the budget, using our business law and talking about the behaviour of certain governmental deputies in the public sector, about bad phenomena in the public sector. Of course, we do not believe that it motivated and forced the Government, the promoter, to send these two acts to the Assembly. We believe it's something else, we don't know what, but it's a good thing they're in front of us. I think you'll agree with me that it was a highly degutant statement from the assembly majority yesterday that they will not appear for a word in the discussion on these two points of the agenda, because they fully understand the importance of these two points, or institutions whose work is regulated by the adoption of these two points. Years ago, we have failed, not the MPs of the SRS, not the other opposition parties, not you as the Trustee, to make them do what you have to do, as every country in the time that we are in today deserves and has an obligation to behave. I repeat, this is today we are closing the institutional framework of these two services, yesterday's audit institutions, today your office of the Trustee for the availability of information of public importance. In that office, I assume, in accordance with the needs and obligations that await you, you will define everything you put in the rulebook and I believe that it is all right and proper and that it will create for you administrative and any other space to act and to function. In your work you will rely on two laws, which are the law on the availability of information and the law adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a few weeks or several months ago, the Personal Data Protection Act. It's two serious things, it's two important laws, and I don't think the state has a little problem with which these laws should be applied objectively and applied. Of course, now we're coming up with one thing, I'm going to comment on it, but I don't want you to understand... Of course, I'm speaking in the context of defending what you're doing, and supporting it. You're a man who has one empire when public authorities and public enterprises, the public sector, are concerned with one living experience with these people, with public-sector public-sector holders. You have experience with them, since for a time you were even a minister in the government who was characterized by some strange affairs and events. Of course, it's not all about that, it's about part of the government, part of the individuals that took part in that government. What's good, you have experience in two directions. On the one hand, you know where the source of essential problems is, the problems of corruption in this country, and on the other hand, you know how much trouble it's going to be to take care of all these things adequately. I repeat, you will not take me for harm, remember the affair: both Marija Rasete-Vukosavljevic and Goran Novakovic and Janjusevic and Kolesar were all government officials. Tell me, what is the epilogue of all these unfortunate affairs? Unfortunately, I think you have good will, good efforts, but I don't think you have hearing in executive power. You speak very plainly of it. I think you said that 70% of the state administration is in principle not ready to respond adequately to the needs you're talking about, the need for this country to face in a quality way with corruption that comes from the top of the government, so it goes down to that last level below. You know where the problem is. I don't think you'll have the support and understanding in perspective, at least not this establishment that's running the state today, which defines our political and economic life, but you have the intention, you have the will, and as long as you rule like that, I think you'll have an interviewer in the SRS. I believe that what is in some way not good is that in the implementation of all these decisions, or the functioning of these institutions, you define yourself first in line with EU attitudes and standards, i.e. with the need for monitoring carried out by the European Commission, the EU is positively assessed. I don't think that's good, and that doesn't send a good message to those who are bonds of respect for these two laws that you'll rely on. I don't think that's good, I think you should send a message, first of all, to insist that we do this for us, for the introduction of order in Serbia and all the institutions that are doing this state. I can objectively, at least from my point of view, resent you and think that, if you will and can accept that suggestion, you need to insist more on the need for order in the state of Serbia, not because Europe is asking us to do so and insists, but because, above all, we need it. By introducing some standards that are objectively good and acceptable to Serbia, we qualify to one day become part of a modern and developed world, and whether it will be Europe or some other part of any world, however, we should be serious and responsible when it comes to state and state obligations. When we talked about the Law on Public Procurement, that is, about a set of anti-corruption laws, I was talking about a case where investors, i.e. contracting authorities, are involved. I'll mention it for a while. The job was to reconstruct some construction facilities. In that first game in public procurement, the one who got the job was more expensive than the second-placed 30 million. The more expensive he was to put aside, the more complete documentation he had, and he got the job. The state gave him a job with incomplete documentation! Whoever was damaged reacted, and based on the reaction, the state, or commission, also brought down the tender, i.e. public procurement, and announced a new match. Imagine the irony, in a new game they get second place. The one that was last time more expensive 30 million than the second-placed with 15 million now has the right documentation, but it's more expensive 15 million. Let's put aside what's more expensive, how can for the same job in two different tenders the price difference be 15 million? It didn't fall into anyone's eyes, trendy or not. You'll realize it's tenorous. Someone was supposed to get that job and apparently the job was done. As long as these manners are in the state, I'm not optimistic, when it comes to your office's work. As much as I want you to work as the Commissioner and your entire office, I am not optimistic that you will have support in the executive authority of the Republic of Serbia. You will have the biggest problem in the government's authorities, i.e. the executive authority of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens who will be able to exercise rights through these laws, who will be able, in some of their needs, to rely on you and your office objectively will not be a problem, how much of a problem will be, I repeat, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all those who depend on the government, or whom the government chooses, puts and defines. The fact is, when it comes to corruption, you will try to control these decisions and put public spending into order. What is bad practice and bad manners of this country is the fact that these problems cannot be solved only by control of corruption. It should certainly also be considered to improve the work of public enterprises, the public sector, their profitability. Unfortunately, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, at least for the time being, no. If your office's functioning and has any effect, I don't think it'll be one rounded whole, it won't be solved until the end. Mr. Shabic, I'm going to finish my presentation, I'd just say that the fines provided for by the criminal provisions of the law are very small, from 5,000 to 50,000. I don't think you're going to have any effect on that, and that the 5,000, or 50,000, will not be seen as some real warning, "hazard," or sanctions that will eventually distract someone from some bad habits and manners. I will finish with one sentence by Slobodan Jovanovic, which you quoted in one of your interviews, in one of your presentations, I will read it, and I will tell you in the end and why. You have referred to the following sentence: "In the absence of the party's convictions and principles, it is harder to succeed and see that they reach the authorities as soon as possible and that they hold it in their hands for as long as possible. They become companies for the exploitation of government and, like all groups run by egotistic initiatives, spread corruption around them. "Mr Sabic, as long as your relationship with the current executive authority in Serbia is like this, as long as your work and your functioning are based on this sentence and these principles, you will have the support and understanding of SRS Dr Vojislav Seselj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12998	Mr. Milorad Buha has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u12999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Sabic, we have two acts before us of the Commissioner for Public Information. The Serbian Radical Party gives special importance to this state institution and therefore launched an initiative, along with other opposition parties, to put these two legal acts into discussion to round up the activity of this state body in a normative sense and to move on to normal functioning and the work of a very significant state body. In doing so, the SRS is talking about its interest in this area and wants to point to certain problems that have been present to date, and will be present in the future because of the social mile in which this state body operates. When we talk about rounding up normative activity and these two legal acts, we need to overrule the question of the Law on Access to Information of public importance and we need to say that the Law is incomplete, that it is full of legal voids, that the competences of the Commissioner are far away from European legislation. They are not sufficiently clear in Article 35. The law on free access to information of public importance. Furthermore, no other elements are defined for access to information of public importance, and these relate to two things: first, to legal acts that must be defined by law, in which the public and the trustee and his services as a state body have the right to insight and control; on the other hand, self-monitoring, the manner of supervision, the elements of that supervision and sanctions, which in this case are almost nothing, very small. The criminal provisions are, according to the provisions of this law, negligible. Why should we engage in something that might potentially cause some negative repercussions in the public, rather not deliver it to the Trustee, deny the public in certain matters that are of particular importance and thus avoid the public and hide what we need to hide. I think it must resort to the creation of a new law on free access to information of public importance, because it is a condition of normal work, of function and of being this, in our opinion, very important state body. When we talk about jurisdiction, they are provided for in Article 35 of this Act. The legislator himself has narrowed down jurisdiction, they are general, they are shown in the words of European terminology which does not correspond to our practice, be our jurisdiction and should be adapted to this member and extend jurisdiction. As far as the legal acts themselves are concerned, I think they match the essence of the current moment, but the current government is paying insufficient attention to other important things in the work and functioning of this body. What are the essential elements? The essential elements are to enable the normal operation and functioning of this body and ensure all conditions for working and functioning, the excessive financial means for the work of this body, which must be sufficient, which must meet all needs in the financial sense necessary to obtain both technical resources and all administrative and other working conditions. All of this is necessary in a certain business space, and you've been shopping with business space and you'll probably also be cooking with business space in the future because the state doesn't pay enough attention, the current government doesn't give enough attention not only to your authority, but also to other state bodies that couture with business space, regardless of what we know we have enough and we need to create preconditions to provide enough business space for the work and functioning of every state body, especially your body. Furthermore, what is important to say about the work and functioning of this body is that the current government must pay far more attention to your information and open up all those acts and all the state documents from which the information you place in public is drawn. In the last year and a half, and before, it was present, but for an intense year and a half, we insist on the openness of profit information in government bodies, especially in public enterprises, because we know that we're walking pay off enormous profits. Mr. Sabic, you yourself know how much trouble you've had to answer our questions and how many problems you've had in your correspondence, communication with public enterprises and other public institutions that refused to provide you with information. Representatives and MPs of the Serbian Radical Party in this parliament and in the public indicated certain unintended use of funds, and this was particularly important in those public institutions that were known to have paid enormous profits. When we talk about these profits, then we have to say that before the end of last year we almost rounded up one continent of wages, earnings, fees, bonuses in public enterprises and other state institutions. We came up with some data and a fact where it wasn't framed by business secrets. We have received one continent from which we can clearly see where certain breakthroughs are harmful to the interests of this country and the people. This is particularly important for those state institutions that receive budget funding, and these appropriations are being poured into high fees, high profits from civil servants, especially for boards of directors meeting once a month or once in two or three months, and the receipts, profits, fees from the president and members of the boards of directors were several thousand euros, unwarranted, socially unethical, harmful. This is where representatives of the SRS openly sought the responsibility of all state authorities, especially those of the control authorities, to the superfluous Ministry of Finance. The finance ministry has all the payment lists of all state institutions in its records, oversees, monitors, monitors, and stood by and kept silent, no information in public on their part has been released. Everything that came out was based on parliamentary issues in this House and what we were getting from you, Mr. Shabic. That's how we opened up that Pandora's box, and then everything that came out and what was harmful came out. What did the current government do to prevent all the damage done in the previous period? It limited the fees of the president and members of the boards of directors and supervisors. It's the only thing the current government has done. The director shouldn't have done that. We are now getting information from the Prime Minister and individual ministers that they will limit the profits made by the director of public enterprises. That story runs for two, three, four months. There is no ban, there is no restriction, there are no conditions and all the elements necessary to be seen on what basis and how we are going to reduce these profits, because they are truly unwarranted right now, especially in the conditions of a difficult economic, social and financial situation in which our people and our country are. What the public needs to know, I want to point out because I've asked a parliamentary question here and I've received an answer, it's that certain payments of social resources are made on the basis of certain harmful contracts, I've pointed out on several occasions, in certain jobs that have no such value or social validity, and the resources are being poured out. This is present with two agencies, two state-owned institutions that unsavedly dispose of state resources: one is the Privatisation Agency, through the kind of work of privatisation consultants in the privatisation process of enterprises, and the other is the Deposit Insurance Agency. I'll tell you some things. I asked a total of three questions in the course of last year and I got one answer. This only speaks of the seriousness with which this authority refers to the highest state institution. As a rule, everything that is set up to the individual state body eventually comes to the ministry and the ministry gives that information. The finance department delivered that information and I'll just say a few sentences about it. I asked for information on the paid personal earnings of the members of the Management Board and the Director of the Deposit Insurance Agency and the fees paid on the basis of special contracts on the work of privatisation advisers. As for the profits, I can say that the profits are as enormous as the other state institutions we mentioned, that I don't now count them. The director of the Deposit Insurance Agency in 2006 made 238,000, in 2007 285,000, nearly 305,000. The president and board members' fee is 34,000 in these three years. I think it fits their work. However, it should be pointed out that the average earnings in this state institution, the Deposit Insurance Agency, are several times higher than the average earnings in the economy and the average earnings in the Republic. Thus, in 2006, the average profit was 26,000, when profits in the Republic of Serbia were 24,000, so almost three times higher. In 2007, it was 75,000, three times again. I think in 2008, the average earnings will be about 32,000, and here is 79,000. Regardless of the qualification structure, I think it's way above average. It's not an SRS pro-edit, but this is enormously high and this is not the result of the work, this is just the result of a monopoly position in which this state institution is located. What is problematic, these are special contracts with privatisation advisers, here we see the harmfulness of these contracts, and in particular the amount of compensation paid during 2006 and 2007 for the services of privatisation advisers in the privatisation of banks. We have eight banks privatized during that period. Let me cut it short and just say how much the total fee for these three years for privatizing eight banks is paid by special contracts. It's a fee that pays on one basis, it's a fixed fee. It, for these eight banks, is shown here in the summit review, is 315,000 euros. The problem is the fee to be paid, I say again, on the basis of that contract, for the successful privatisation done. We sell the bank, and then we make a deal that comes from the amount that comes from 1 to 1.96, and even from the Yu Bank, it's 2.96... So the total fee paid on this basis is 10,860,000 euros. Now let's do one parallel. In the process of privatising social enterprises, we have, and now we will have, over 300 companies that we have not privatised, we have over 500 social enterprises that ended up in bankruptcy. This country was tasked with selling the entire social property and privatising that property. We failed to finish it. Instead of doing privatisation in these cases of bankruptcy and what remains of bankruptcy and hiring privatisation advisers, we used privatisation advisers in enterprises, institutions and banks that are well listed on the market and which we will certainly sell well. There's harmfulness and there's a crime of the current government that allowed it to be done. 10,860,000 euros were given to privatisation advisers to sell something already sought on the market, not giving funds and expensive euro in those companies that we cannot sell. So, 300 companies, or maybe even more, at the end of this year and we're not gonna be able to sell the privatisation because we don't have customers. There, the privatisation adviser was to come and privatise and help the state get the funds it planned to privatise these companies. Here as a society we must take steps and seek responsibility for those who have made such moves. Mr. Shabic, there's also your responsibility because you have to start this issue. These are state resources, you've got insight into these affairs. I think that this parliament has made the most of its steps to detect certain affairs, malfeasance, criminal acts, and it will do so in the future. The Serbian Radical Party made a major contribution, because you as a state institution couldn't, they wouldn't let you. It only speaks of the current authority – we will not have affairs, hide every affair, and when we know and when we do not know. Yesterday, we heard, for the fifth or seventh time, about an affair opened here by the president of the parliamentary group, Mr. Todorovic, who had decoded and made it clear what the state authorities had done and what these same state bodies had not done. Why? Because all of this is behind it are the most prominent representatives of the state government, Dinkic and Djelic. This led to the privatisation of the National Savings Bank, the estrangement of state resources, etc. The Serbian Radical Party will certainly continue to be an obstacle to crime in this way. The task of the Commissioner is also to open all files, enter all acts and make public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13000	The word is Mr. Fired Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13001	I'm reporting from Articles 225 and 226. In fact, in the past few days, I've been yelling for this pay phone by addressing the police minister to answer me if my life and my family's life are in danger. In particular, I received threats from members of the so-called advanced parties. That is one, if I am not mistaken, the extraparliamentary minor party currently on Serbia's political scene. In particular, I was threatened by members Gavrilo and Damir Kovacevic, who are born brothers who live and work in Zemun. But I didn't get any answers. You, Mrs. Djukic, thank you, said that answer would come. I guess I didn't speak in vain. Someone was listening to me after all. Alexander Vukic listened to me and gave orders to his private newspaper to publish an article that matches what I brought here. Of course, he's not talking about me being threatened, who threatened me, that they threatened my underage son, etc. He's coming down on this little thing here as a beginner, that's what it says here, crime in Zemun. About me, then one big break, then Dusan Spasojevic. So, Serbian people, you're looking at a new Zemun godfather. There are a lot of accusations, for example, that I'm a quasinist. Okay, I am, I have no idea about journalism, but I'm just curious then why Alexander Vukic asked the late Ilia Guzina to teach him journalism on Serbian television at the Palace. He made a mistake. Maybe later he found a better professor. There, he's crossed over, it happens to everyone. However, what is particularly intriguing, and I wonder how this could have happened, is in the third paragraph, and it says this: "Can anyone trust a man", which I am, however, a man, "who brutally forced the Barbalic family out of the apartment on the street of Captain Radic Petrovic". So I can't be trusted. It's an alley in Zemun where my wife got an apartment from the Zemun municipality, etc., the trial has been going on since 1997, I won't bother you with my private problems. What's interesting about this story is that Alexander Vukic personally, ten or eleven times, organized a demonstration of support for me and my wife in front of my window. Alexander Vukic was the one wearing posters against the Zemun Ustasha lobby. Now, apparently, there's been a change in his head. There was a croatization of Alexander Vukic, probably after a visit from his Captain Brana Spacious in parts of the occupied Republika Srpska. You know... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Sanader's cat, Alexander Vukic, ran over, that way, that way. It wasn't enough to give up the great Serbia, and now he's giving up what he's done, what he's done, what he's done, what he's done, who he was, not that he wasn't there. Now he regrets it... (President: Time. ) He may be in time and regret, he's a young man, but I'm surprised that under his old days Tomislav Nikolic did something like that, so, well, I'd like to know what this is all about. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13002	First, according to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger Veroljub Arsic, and then you will receive the word. You've got three minutes, a little more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting to members of 225 and 226 because in one municipality in Braničev County DS together with the SRS, a single-party system is being introduced. I will now read a letter received by the Municipal Election Commission, which was signed by an authorised representative of the SRS electoral list - Tomislav Nikolic, and signed by the president of the OO SRS Sasa Valjarevic. "By acting on the invitation of the OIK local self-government of the municipality of Kučevo to deliver the names of candidates for 15 committees from the SRS-Tomislav Nikolic election list as an authorised person in front of the SRS-Tomislav Nikolic electoral list holder Tomislav Nikolic, declared a solution on the establishment of a 30-seat election list of candidates. 4. In 2008, And within five days of the receipt of the notice concerning that order, I am reporting to you the following. The mandates of 15 representatives selected from the SRS list - Tomislav Nikolic are, within the meaning of Article 48(1). Law on local elections, suspended on the basis of the judgment of the District Court in Pozharevc, 18. 12. In 2008. Person from the listed list in front of the SRS-Tomislav Nikolic electoral list, and that: Rakić Mirko, Grujic Boban, Nesic Snezana, Radenkovic Dragoljub, Djordjevic Sunčić, Jović Slavoljub, Ilic Dragica, Stefanović Dragana, Petrovic Vela, Vrbomirović Daniel, Andrejic Slavica, Paunović Momir, Aćimović Dragana, Ignatijavić Sunčić, Marović Milja, Petrovic Miroslav, Kržanovic Slavoljub from Duboka, Jovanovic Dejan from Duboka, Jovanovic Nadica, Munturišević Radiša, Bulutić Miroslav, Spasojevic Sanela", that I do not read all the names, "have stopped being members of the SRS and refused to accept the candidacy for the committees whom I would, as an authorized person in front of the elected SRS-Tolislav, Tomić. "There is no more news that the SRS has no more candidates to fill out the lists of mandates that have been taken away. When you look at this act, he's perfectly fine and I believe both the seal and the signature are completely correct. There are several illogicalities. First, it wasn't delivered at the party's memo. Who knows, the SRS never uses in its abbreviations memos, this is where the SRS, the SRS, the SRS are constantly mentioned, there is nowhere - the Serbian Radical Party, which means that this paper is not on the Serbian Radical Party... (President: Time. I'm bringing the end. Where it came from, you can see it from the next point of view. The same Sasa Valjarevic is proposing to the municipal electoral commission that 15 mandates be assigned to the applicant with the largest amount, in the DS text below. Let's get back to where the document came from. The document was created in the attorney's office of a certain Mr. Dragan Milic. It's no big deal, they can't even write a side act anymore, they don't even have a candidate's statement not to accept the candidacy, so they had to hire a lawyer. However, this lawyer is... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and a committee of the Democratic Party. That's the problem. It means that Sasa Valjarevic, along with DS and SRS, introduces a single-party system... (President: You will bring the end, please. )......................................................................................................... in the municipality of Kučevo. I don't know why, I suppose it's gratitude for membership in the boards of directors in Pozarevec, where the SRS is in opposition, and for placing the director of finance in the JKP for Sasa Valjarevic. Now talk about the coalitions with the yellow ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13004	The word is Mrs. Pop-Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13005	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is probably the last address this gentleman made for the assembly speaker. If he were lucky, he couldn't spend a day in this room after he left the SRS parliamentary group. Because the only thing that was normal in such a situation, when Tomislav Nikolic, along with little Vucic, decided to form a new political party, was, as politicians everywhere in the world who hold onto themselves would do, return mandates, deal with politics and wait for the next election cycle, and then, if voters win votes, enter parliament with full legitimacy and legality. Now, this is about a man, not just a man, but a group of people who have been singled out in that Parliament club, who haven't said anything about this pay phone, nothing about the problem in this country. Did you hear them say something about Kosovo and Metohija yesterday? No, they don't care. Their only cancer wound is the SRS. For what? Because they failed to withdraw as much from the SRS as the English ambassador and the US ambassador asked them to, they did not drag 50 MPs away, and they still have to return these three mandates to the Administrative Committee. I expect it may be today, tomorrow, Monday, and the court will decide on the terms of office of these 18 MPs. It is illusory to listen to someone who cannot rise to morale, someone who has stolen the will of Serbian citizens. All of you, gentlemen, must be clear to the smallest child in Serbia, steal something that is not yours, something that belonged to and belongs to the SRS. It can't be moral, it can't be legal, it can't be legitimate. It can't be legitimate. You took something that wasn't yours. The voters voted for the SRS, for the programme and the promise of the SRS. If you've slowed down for some of the benefits that someone has offered you, some of the abolitions of something you've been afraid of, to solve some of your personal problems, it's really yours, but on a political scene we have to deal with in principle with these phenomena. We always objected to such phenomena, remember, and when it was Karic, and when G17 became a parliamentary parliamentary group, and when the DSS was expelled from parliament and when Bane Ivkovic became... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The parliamentary political party in the same way. In our own way, we detested it, even though we had no personal interest. It's not just a party interest now, it's a principled interest. That's why we distracted and disturbed the speakers that are coming out yesterday, and we don't think they have the right to go out for this pay phone. We will continue to do so until it is clear to all of you, I think it is clear to you colleagues, but to everyone in Serbia, who they are and what they are doing in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13006	Mr. Mladenovic reported to the Rules of Procedure and has his three minutes, so he can connect so he doesn't answer twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, firstly, in connection with the presentation, soon-to-be former MP, on the coalition in some municipalities, I will provide you with information about what happened in the Barajevo municipality. This is the official minutes of the 8th session of the Administrative-Mandatory Commission, which took place on 26 December 2008, starting at 9.00 p.m. Six points of the agenda were proposed on that commission. The fifth point was - Considering the resignations of the SRS. When it reached the 5th point, the SO secretary stated that on the previous day, on December 25th, at 13.00, the SRS handed over the activated resignations of six committee members, who were certified and seduced at the office. The Commission is considering the resignations of SO Barajevo from the SRS election list: Branislav Đurić, Milina Blagojevic, Zoran Markovic, Zoran Stevančević, Miroslav Ljubinkovic and Mile Savic. Commission member Ivan Ivanovic proposed that the Administrative-Mandating Commission be heard and respected the resignations of these six committees and suggested that SO Barajev return the mandates of the SRS. The proposal is put to the vote. What's rather strange is that four times it was voted in relation to one proposal. The first was the proposal to return the mandates of the SRS – one vote for, the other against, the proposal was rejected. Then a proposal is put forward by the secretary of the commission which was contrary to this and no one votes for, or against, no abstentions and it is found that the commission has no opinion on the issue. The discussion is reopened, the debate continues, after which the proposal to return the mandates to the SRS is again put, for the third time voting on the same thing. This time they were all for, no one against, no one abstention. Accordingly, the commission decides to return the mandates to the SRS and this session ends. After an hour or two, there are various threats to members of the commission, agreements between DS and SNS are under way, re-convening and re-invoking the commission. The Commission is meeting and imagine what the President of the Commission is saying, because the previous one is done – it proposes that the Commission return to the agenda point, i.e. reviewing the resignations, and the complete commission has previously finished with the agenda! However, they open this session and return to the fifth item of the agenda and make a different decision, so that the mandates do not return to the SRS and all in the DS and SNS agreement. Also, within the framework of these two parties, it is agreed that members of the council should be changed, so that in the Council for Economic Affairs, Budget and Finance of this municipality, member Ivankovic is replaced by member Milina Blagojevic, the Council for Urbanism, Community Action and Environmental Protection of Council members Daniel Djurdjevic is replaced by member Branislav Đurić, etc. All members of the SRS council shall be replaced by SNS members. Same thing happened in Starship Community, same case. The Democratic Party in the coalition with the SNS is changing members, ousting members of the SRS and inserting the proposed SNS. In two municipalities, DS and SNS coalitions made a deal. I would use this time to ask one parliamentary question to the Ministry of Justice. A trade court in Belgrade, in prosecutor Lazarevic Draginja's lawsuit against the accused company for the production of stockings and tricottage "Inex Partizanka" in bankruptcy, with the address of Cyril and Methodija No. 8, he made a decision on 19 March 2004, i.e. the judgment, that the defendant, on behalf of the costs of the litigation, should pay the amount of 21,000 dinars within eight days of the day of his sentence. In 2006, it is concluded that the creditor does not have a bankruptcy mass for any settlement of the creditors in this procedure, and thus for the payment of shares, shares, severances and similar claims. What is interesting, and has been published several times in the newspaper in 2003, is that the factory has given its space and there are the most luxurious apartments in Belgrade. These are apartments between the streets of the Duke of Bran, Cyril and Methodius, the Duke of Bogdan and Milorad of the Chapcans. These are apartments with complete luxury equipment, with the most expensive square meters in Belgrade. That factory got huge money for that space, and she didn't want to settle her debt to her workers. My question to the Department of Justice is: what happened to the money the factory got to give its space to build these luxury apartments? In the end, I'd like to mention a few more things, since it's time to end. I'd like to mention workers of the Belgrade Robing Houses, who are still in the park, whom the government is not paying any attention to. People are also in poor health. I think he should react quickly. (President: Time. I'm bringing the end. I'd like to mention former giant, Belgrade Confection - BEKO. The shareholders also didn't get the value that belongs to them. I'd also mention people who work in the boulevard of revolution, which the militia daily makes because they sell on the street to make money for their family, for their lives. These are the people who lost their jobs, who asked me to mention them. People simply don't have a way out of this situation. They're on the street. We need to have a little more tolerance for them and we need to let them make a living. I'm done with the sentence. In the municipality of Vozdovac, the president of the Vozdovac municipality resigned. On many occasions, I've been saying what was going on there, how many lawsuits they got for this short period of ruling of DS, SPS and LDP, what they've done for the past six months, and how many lawsuits they've gotten, how many times the court has ruled in our favor, that they've held sessions without quorums and so forth. Finally, the president of the Vozhdovac municipality resigned. I hope this election brings new solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13008	Mrs. Pop-Lazic is advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13009	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues, I am sorry to extend this debate a little bit, but believe me I must, and please, Madam Chairman, take me into protection. First of all, I'm a woman, a Parliamentarian. As far as I can tell, I am respected by my fellow Members of all parliamentary groups, as I respect them, and I have never had a personal conflict with a single MP. I will always try to treat those who are my equal. But here in passing I really don't have to put up with any of Mr. Nikolic's ugly words. I'm ashamed to tell you now what he told me as he entered the O.R., but if you let me and if the Serbian public needs to know, I'll say, "And you, Gordana, are full of shit." I quoted Mr. Nikolic. Did you say that? Oh, my God! Well, they heard the colleagues. Don't think it bothers me personally, but I can't say I don't care if any of you tell me. There's no difference. Is the level of this House such that we can use such a vocabulary? Have we ever referred such words to one another in the congregation hall? No, if we were angry, we'd walk past each other without "good afternoon." It happened very rarely, and it happened on purpose. We all drink coffee very often. We're talking to each other. We exchange opinions on all matters. We don't always agree, but there's no personal hatred, no harsh behavior. If you cannot, Madam Chairman, grant this man a courtesy, is there any competent authority that might be able to deal with this man's psychological profile, because I'm going to ask outside this Parliament for protection from this man? I don't know who's in charge of him. I don't think Vucic told him to behave like this, because he's on TV playing modern Paraskeva, and here with various criminals, he's threatening SRS MPs. There must be order in this country. I only said this because I don't know what one of us is waiting for from people who are obviously ready for anything, even the worst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13010	As provided for in Article 104(3), the use of offensive statements, of course, is not allowed in this room. I have to admit, I didn't hear it myself. I ask the MPs to take care of the dignity of the assembly. Mr Tomislav Nikolic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a notorious lie. I didn't even notice Mrs. Pop-Lazic when I got into the O.R., really. Don't give yourself that much meaning. I never speak to you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13012	National MP Vesna Pesic has a word. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13013	Dear People's MPs, Madam President of the Assembly, I would like to speak to you personally because Mrs Pop-Lazic has called for order here. I think it's a good idea to call it a turn, but yesterday's event in the assembly, I was in a dilemma whether to keep it quiet or not, and it concerns the arrival of a person who's being accused and now defends himself from freedom... Can we, since the case is so famous and it's about someone hitting an American of Jewish origin, that the SRS, your people, are bringing this man into the assembly... Then you, Madam President, say it's not forbidden, anyone can move, any citizen can come. You know what, when you talk about order, when it comes to morality, it's not written anywhere. We can't every single thing, when it comes to writing down, when someone comes by and doesn't throw it to you. What kind of rules would that be? Do we have any professions, did we finish any schools, did we have any parents, did anyone raise us, did we know about the order? That it is not and that it is, Madam President, an insult to the Parliament's dignity, that the young man was brought yesterday into the Republika Srpska Assembly. Aren't we ashamed? Is that how we make the whole world stubborn? Yesterday, Mr. Sabic, sitting around all day waiting for the agenda, and you blocked the Kosovo Defence Assembly by forming a security force in Kosovo. How are we going to defend Kosovo? Is that how Kosovo is defended, by showing that we defend every bully if he hits someone and that's why he falls into a coma? Are we the people who have to defend it and say that everyone has a right? There's no law where every row will be printed. I ask you, as MPs, as Parliament, that we maintain dignity in some unwritten household order, according to something that does not appear in this Rules of Procedure. But, ma'am, it does say in the Rules of Procedure that it is an insult to the dignity of the Assembly. I think that tomorrow you will bring Ratko Mladic to the assembly and say: Everyone has the right to come. There's no right, because there's both human morality and some human order. You've been calling on that a little while ago. Yesterday was a total mix-up. Even the media don't dare attack the Assembly for that and say, "Well, are these people grown up in the field, are these people born in the field, do they have no dignity, no morals, can they not come out and say what the true dignity of the congregation is?" So please, when it comes to order, let's not just call on whether it's written somewhere in the freedoms and follow if someone's walking somewhere, but to really be people of morality and dignity and not allow such people to walk in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13014	The doors of the National Assembly are open to those citizens for whom there are no legal prohibitions, especially when MPs introduce them into this congregation. That's what the MPs of the SRS did yesterday, while we were working here. I really don't have any formal legal arguments to call on. As far as ethical views are concerned, it is obvious that at least two parliamentary groups are making a completely different statement than those in a particular procedure, but they have not yet been given any definitive sanctions or penalties. I just wouldn't be able to arbitration in this case, I'd have to ask those who are more legally subdued than I am. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Pesic, I really expected you, as a lady and as a former ambassador, to come out for this pay phone to say at least – if Mr Nikolic (because you couldn't hear it) said that and that, I condemn it. However, you've come out on a completely different occasion. What bothers me about your exposure, what the SRS is, is that you convicted one man, and the court is the one to condemn that man. Many here have criminal charges, so they probably shouldn't enter, there are various criminal charges in the assembly against MPs of all MPs, so they shouldn't enter parliament. What a young basketball player from America got support from MPs from different parliamentary groups, remember when we talked about it, is not to be extradited to the United States. What Hillary Clinton is looking for, what Mrs. Pesic thinks is terrible is that it is an American of Jewish origin, which she probably wouldn't react to if it was some other Serb he was fighting there, it's a problem to deal with Mrs. Pesic, and you all remain and public opinion to take it into account. That's the basic problem. No one here, not even Ratko Mladić can be forbidden to enter parliament. If he showed up here and announced to me, I'd say, "Here, let him in, let him in." Why not come in? Can someone tell me one single legal basis that could not get him in? Who's to stop him? He might have been arrested later by someone in my office, but no one can stop him from coming in. We welcomed at that time the behavior of our consul that allowed this young man to return to the country. It was his duty. The fact that Mrs. Pesic obviously doesn't know, although she was at the post of ambassador and worked at the SMIP, that it was his duty, that's another thing. And because we weren't born in the field, I'm sorry, many of you and we were born in the field, many Serbian giants were born in the field and we shouldn't talk about it that way. What, now we're dividing by who was born on GAC, who was born in Novi Sad, who was born in the field, who was cut with a sickle, and who was born with scissors? Come on, please, we're losing sight of what Serbia is. This is, after all, a country of peasants, but proud people, proud peasants, peasants who brought Serbia to where they brought it, from the end of the 19th century and from the beginning of the 20th century and throughout our medieval history. You've forgotten all that, you've thrown it all under your feet, you're disgusted by the freak, but that's why Hillary Clinton is very important and is a very important American of Jewish origin. It's a shame to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13016	Mrs. Vesna Pesic, replica, please. I'm sorry, there's an advantage, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta. You'll get your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Pesic mentioned young Mr Miladin Kovacevic and his arrival in parliament, she said, at the invitation of the SRS... It was not an invitation, Mr Kovacevic came to parliament, he made a statement; afterwards he said he came to thank all those who supported him, his family, his friends during a very difficult period for him and his family. It is true that he entered the Assembly with an MP of the SRS and we have no problem with it; and when Miladin Kovacevic was kidnapped from his house, with the presence of cameras B92, we talked about it here, publicly expressing our opinions, our views. And we now claim that both Miladin Kovacevic and, as Gordana Pop-Lazic said, Ratko Mladic and every Serbian citizen who is not legally convicted of some crime must apply the Constitution and his fundamental human rights must be respected. Our Constitution envisioned an entire section dedicated to human and minority rights and freedoms, and we take care of it, and we always will. But Mrs. Pesic said something else. She said that yesterday, SRS MPs usurped parliament because, I don't know how many hours, we talked about forming some security unit or security unit, as it is called in Kosovo, says Mrs Pesic. We say that yesterday we were talking about forming an army of Kosovo, a Cypriot army on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija, it also says in this book, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and we Serbian will act, as far as it is in our power, to fight and talk from this place about that Kosovo and Metohija are Serbia and that what is happening there is illegal, illegal. And as for what you think matches the opinion of Hillary Clinton, or the US administration, and then the present and the present, I once told you that it was about your political activity, not just your own, but a group of your contemplators, very interestingly written in Dr Filipovic's book, I think it's called "The Anthology of a globalist smell". I'm sorry, it's in progress, that's why the MPs of the SRS, and, I see, other parliamentary groups... Only the LDPs have come now, because they do not care that the session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee is under way and that we will certainly get the relevant conclusions from that committee as parliament. We are confident that most or almost all members of the Committee will first and foremost accept what we met the public yesterday, which is the views and conclusions of the Community of Serb municipalities in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13018	The word is Mrs. Vesna Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13019	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, you're absolutely right, every day someone hits someone on the street, leaves and answers for it, and you really have no reason to bring a man like that who's been hit on the street, in a bar, here to the Assembly. Yes, he may be a Serb, a citizen of this country, but you don't care. You're bringing in a man's congregation just because he hit someone who's an American and because he's behind Hillary Clinton. That was your point. Now you call me ambassador. Of course it's right that the Ministry changed that consul, because he shouldn't have done it. So it wasn't in his jurisdiction. Otherwise, if it were in his jurisdiction, why would he suffer some kind of coincidence? Why are you teaching me some order now that you know that too? So the thing is, you defend violence where it's obvious, the whole world knows, that violence, that's what I'm going to defend. That's what you as a Serbian will be very proud to defend. That's what I was going to say and say that the Assembly loses its dignity every time it defends violence. That's why you waved Miladin Kovacevic, because you defend violence. Then I took Kosovo as an example. If it's about violence, not wanting violence, who's going to believe you, your politics, when you want to defend violence at every turn? You want to defend war criminals, you want to do it at every turn and then you want Serbia to have a reputation in the world. You are an anti-patriot and therefore nothing will ever be done in this state of Serbia, because you come out here and embarrass this country every day with such acts, and behind this really stands nothing but the most brutal defense of violence. That's why Serbia came this far, that's why it lost Kosovo, because that's how you, through violence, defended it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13020	The advantage is, as agreed, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, as deputy head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13021	Mrs. Pesic, there's no need for you to be so sharp. Mr. Kovacevic was not invited, Mr. Kovacevic came himself and asked for a reception. As we have received him, we receive every day all those who apply to the application and want to come to one of the MPs for any conversation. I guess that's what you're doing. We're not protecting any violence. The courts are doing their job, we're not judging, but we can hear who's judging. It's up to you. You're saying that Ratko Young is a war criminal. You're saying this young man committed some kind of crime, which is why you'd be happy to hand him over to the American state. We believe that every man has the right to protect himself from his country, he has the right to, if he has committed a crime, that is why there are courts, responsible in his country, to be tried in his country. It's not true that the consul did something he shouldn't have done under regulations. It's a political decision to court the State Department, to withdraw a consul then, who was absolutely professional and was obliged to protect his citizen. Because if it weren't for that, a man of the state shouldn't, we'd still be living in a tribal community. What good is a country if it doesn't protect me wherever I am, no matter what trouble I'm in, no matter what I'm in? The state must stand behind me and help me as much as the Constitution commits to it, that is, how much the Constitution guarantees it to me. That's the difference between you and me. You're looking at who's who, where who's who, whether it's an important state, isn't an important state. Why don't you come out and say something about Gaza and Palestine, if you don't want to talk about Kosovo and Metohija? Mention this Israel and that America in a negative sense. Let's celebrate her again because they bombed us. Let's tell them -- thank God you bombed us, which killed 2,500 people, which is so much infrastructure damaged, that they destroyed us economically. Once you condemn someone who needs to be convicted verbally, express a political stance. That would be a national interest. Who can say today – thanks to those countries, 19, which bombed Serbia, were right? You could have said that in 2000 and 1999, but today you look ridiculous in front of Serbian citizens. People are dying today because of this bombing. Do you see what mortality is in our country? What do you think the cause of that, the pets, the high-rises, the walk around Zlatibor? (Chairman: Please finish.) ) To this extent is your speech, especially the tone, that, I think, is really an injury, at the very least a violation of Parliament's dignity, but also the dignity of the Serbian people. Thank you and forgive me, please, for taking too much time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13022	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13023	Mr. Vice President, honourable Members of the People, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 225. A big topic has been launched here, the dignity of the National Assembly. Let us not confuse two things, the right of every citizen to come to this congregation and the fact that the reputation of the National Assembly collapses every day. That's the reputation we're responsible for ourselves. If you don't believe me, and God forbid I'm wrong, look at any public opinion research. The reputation of the National Assembly, which is the basis of parliamentary democracy, is on the lowest possible branches. That shows absolutely all the research and we can't get away from it. We're alone responsible, serious, the way we talk, how we talk to each other, how we spend this time, not talking about things that might be for another investigation, about how some money is used, of course, just some MPs and some people who were here or are here right now. The Miladin Kovacevic case and this debate show that the motives for bringing him here were political. He's accused of one crime. Right, every man is innocent until proven guilty, but in Serbia another so-called. Presumptions of innocence, that's justifiable suspicion. This is never mentioned in Serbia, that there is a reasonable doubt, otherwise a criminal act would not have been initiated against someone. I'm not going to open that topic because then we'd go far, I just want to say that we are responsible for the reputation of the National Assembly. The reputation of the National Assembly will not grow if people accused of serious crime (I use the very carefully word accused) and people who have become world-famous by circumstances are brought in. I must say that the case of Miladin Kovacevic, unfortunately for him and for the one he was accused of beating him and who was in a coma, became a world topic. It will not increase the reputation of this congregation when it is brought forth to show what? If he wanted to thank you, he didn't have to come to the Assembly, he could come to your party and thank you. The interesting question, though, is why is he thanking only one party and for what? So, once again, the reputation of the National Assembly is collapsing here every day, and that's all I can say. I'm trying not to disturb him, I'm trying to appeal to you to think about it, but obviously, some people don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13024	The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13025	Mr. Vice President, my fellow Members and fellow MPs, I'm advocating the violation of Article 104 - the dignity of the Assembly. We are witnessing a daily media campaign that is destroying the Assembly's reputation, in order to transfer the difficult situation in Serbia from the government to the Assembly. We have articles on Members' salaries, we have, retailes, in all media debates on the restaurant, on the diaries, etc. It ruins the reputation of the National Assembly. Maybe it doesn't answer to someone, and it doesn't answer to someone. It matches who's behind it. In this destruction, the National Assembly has its reputation, and the executive authorities are often accused of also destroying the reputation of the National Assembly by colleagues from the SRS. I've said more than once from this pay phone that it's impossible for all the problems in this country to be the cause of an argument between the radicals and the global economic crisis, but you, gentlemen of the radicals, were destroying the reputation of the National Assembly yesterday. Bringing in, agreeing to be your guest, the man who is on Interpol's pursuit, is not raising respect, but destroying the reputation of these congregations, and us MPs and states, after all. In the end, it was a policy that led to Kosovo being part of Serbia really on paper. I appeal, if the gentleman who escaped justice in the country where he committed the crime wants to thank you, he can thank you in your party. Yesterday, I am saying this for the citizens, not only thanked the SRS for its support, but also the Democratic Party, both the DSS and other parties. That's what I saw, I'm sorry. The president of the National Assembly says that "everyone has the right to come" is also destroying the reputation of the National Assembly, because I don't think that coming to the Assembly of People who have an arrest warrant is a reputation for the Assembly. I really don't understand what we're talking about here. The man is innocent, but arguing that everyone should answer in this country is advocating that a foreigner who commits a crime in Serbia should go to his country to answer. Where's that? Where's that? So if someone kills someone in a bar, he's a stranger, he's not supposed to answer in Serbia, he's supposed to answer in the country where he's from? Please don't say elemental things. (President: Time.) ) After all, the story, which is mostly because of the ones The Hague is looking for, that everyone is innocent until proven guilty and until convicted is a hypocritical story. I remind you that Joseph Mengele has never been convicted or charged. Give me a normal man on the globe who thinks he's innocent. So consider, then, that the people on the BOLO do not contribute to the reputation of the congregation or the state. Such a policy has led to disastrous consequences for the country, the people, the nation and the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13026	He has the word Mr. Jadranko Vukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13027	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, since the topic is Kovacevic, the theme is NATO, the theme is America, so whoever is after that young boy, and his greatest sin is that he is a Serb, I will remind you of the following critics of this visit by Miladin Kovacevic, especially you, sir. (President: I'll just remind you to say a member of the Rules of Procedure. ) This is Article 225, as I will eventually request a notice from the President of the State. Mrs. Pesic, since you say some don't protect violence, I think we're the only party protecting violence, why? Two agreements, and we're the only ones who haven't voted. There is also a witness, and Mr Ilic, who is slightly revealing to us some things, that half of the government, both those and these, is open to Kosovo's independence. Who protects violence? Just to remind you of two agreements: the first since 18 July 2005, signed by Vuk Draskovic, on NATO transit through Serbia. Mrs. Pesic, under that agreement, the army and civilians... I'm talking about NATO, so I'm going back to Mr. Tadic's protest with NATO and the United Nations. There's no protest. If we had serious power, these two agreements would be lifted immediately here in this room. Under the agreement of 18 July 2005, the NATO military and civilians can go through the territory without the right to ask them anything, nor subject to domestic laws. This means that they can also drive radioactive material, poison and other harmful substances, kidnap, beat and rape, it was in Italy and Macedonia without responding to our laws, because total immunity was agreed. Mrs. Pesic, you were an ambassador, total immunity! An American in our country can do whatever they want. Who protects violence? Protects the one who voted in favour of this agreement. It would be fairer if the responsible people in this country, i.e. that Boris Tadic will sign a full capitulation and say, "I signed it." Here they would support it, they would say – you agreed to it under force, under pressure. No, they don't let him sign a full capitulation, we're here to sign it, through these agreements. The second agreement is (sir-in-Office, if I have extended, just to say) an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the US government on the protection of status and access to and use of military infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, signed on 7 September 2006, on the one hand by Boris Tadic, and on the other hand Condoleezza Rice – the same can do what they want. I understand your revolt, but it's a young man. If he's wrong, he'll answer here. His greatest sin is that he is a Serb, Mrs. Pesic! (President: Time.) I mean, the greota is that this is how you discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13028	In the end, you didn't ask for any notice, nor did you ask anyone. The word is from the vice president of the National Assembly of Mrs Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13029	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to remind you of where we started when we started this discussion. We started off with some bad words about making an emergency, whether someone said those words or not. So, we're starting from the SRS's gambling and the advanced party. Yes, those words that were mentioned here at this pay phone are rude. I would also like to remind you that the Assembly is a transparent institution, perhaps the only transparent institution in the country of Serbia. Everything here in the Assembly is said, all that is done, therefore, any, even congruent, action is kind of a political message. If it is rude to use rude and abusive words in this room, it is also rude to visit someone who is in some criminal proceedings for the execution of certain crimes, if there is a reasonable doubt that the person has committed crimes. A parliamentary group, specifically the SRS, welcomed Mr. Miladin Kovacevic, who is in the process in front of our courts for certain crimes yesterday. Why? That's why we can't use two arches, because the fact that you received him, that he was welcome, is the fact that a criminal procedure is being conducted against him, the fact is that it's one political message, one political stance. By doing this procedure, or by showing the world what your relationship to the world is, according to committing a crime, according to who commits the crime; only if the perpetrator is a member of the nation you belong to, in which case he obviously enjoys your protection and abolization. There are no two arches. There is one archaic, and that is that in this congregation it must behave politely, that the laws must be respected in this congregation, because everything we do is directed to the world, it's all kind of a message. We said, or the ruling coalition, that we are facing both Europe and Russia and America. (President: Time.) We expect help from all three sides. We're in good relations with everyone. Then why the finger in the eye of a great force, the United States of America, who sought the extradition of a specific gentleman? I remind you, it's all a message. Therefore, I appeal to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I feel that the dignity of this congregation has been truly injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13030	The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13031	Mr. Novakovic, since he is obviously a member of our 104th Rules of Procedure as a basis for making political views, I use that member in the same way and I appeal to him. I must draw attention to the fact that the dignity of the National Assembly is extremely compromised when one of our televisions, especially CNN or BBC, shows up a picture of Javier Solana. The first association to be created with me and every man I know, and quite a few people I know, is that Javier Solana slaughters our children, kills our children, bombes Serbia, destroys everyone in Serbia. As I recall, he was the subject of interest, with twenty other statesmen headed by the NATO Pact and states that are members of the NATO Pact; a criminal procedure was conducted. And, in order to allow Javier Solana to come as a happily seen DOS guest, the verdict was annulled and the prosecutor later gave up prosecution. Let us now apply the logic of some MPs in the National Assembly. Does this mean that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are now fully aware because of this act that Mr. Javier Solana is a "merciful angel", he loves our children, worships the Republic of Serbia and is eager to resuscitate all the things that some punk there bombed? Of course not. How informed I am, which was done by the newspaper, against that kid who was in the National Assembly yesterday, there is no solution that forbids freedom of movement. There is a reasonable doubt and some procedure is being conducted. In the enjoyment of his human rights he is free, only limited in that part when he must appear in court to discuss there what is specifically put on him. Please, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia here have their own safe house, which is the National Assembly. The boy was very polite, thanked all MPs and everyone in Serbia who stepped in defense of the Constitution that prohibits extradition. The constitution forbids extradition. Mr Nikola Novakovic, I would ask you to inform, if not in private, then at least officially, some MPs who have not been informed of a very important fact: an Interpol warrant has been called for both Haradinaj, Ceku and so on. Correspond all those international institutions where these gentlemen from Kosovo and Metohija go as statesmen. Remind them there's an Interpol indictment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13032	The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13033	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, LDP gentlemen, if I am not mistaken, a few days ago you reacted sharply over the writing of certain daily papers in Serbia that announced the news that the protected witness of this state, Dejan Milenkovic Bagzi, accused Cedomir Jovanovic, your leader, of ordering the murder of Šljuka. By applying your logic, the president of the National Assembly should ban the entry of Cedomir Jovanovic into the National Assembly building because he was accused not by anyone but by a protected witness, the man who is helping this country allegedly to expose crimes and mafia acts of the Zemun-Surcin clan. Have you, LDP gentlemen, who were then in the Democratic Party, forgotten how you came to power? Have you come to power by respecting the Constitution and the law or by committing crimes? Who burned down the building of the then Federal Assembly? Who set fire to the RTS building? To whom did the Zemun-Surcian clan give jeeps, racial horses, expensive cars? Who bathed in a pool on Schiller Street? Who dropped the artificial jaw as he jumped into the pool at the Zemunac and Surcinac? Did you forget that? Unfortunately, Mr. Chairman, we Serbs are in the same situation as Negos. He wrote those famous words: "Is there anything good to write for a Serb? "Unfortunately, there is no today. It is enough that any Serb anywhere in the world is accused of anything, he is immediately guilty. We don't need a court ruling, we don't need a court, he's guilty. Gentlemen, how do you know that Miladin Kovacevic committed any crime? Is that in any court order? Is that proven in a legally valid way? No, but it's important he's a Serb. Here, Mrs Vesna Pesic was diving crocodile tears because Miladin Kovacevic allegedly beat up an American citizen of Jewish origin. I didn't hear, Mrs. Pesic, that you criticized the state of Israel for killing civilians on the West Coast in the Gaza Strip. Since when are the women and children of the Hamas terrorists? What do they have to do with any political or terrorist acts? Not a word of judgment, but thanks to this America of yours, Israel has been given free hands to commit crimes, to commit genocide against the Palestinian people. But there are also honest people in Israel, there are great intellectuals who said that what the state of Israel is doing with the Palestinians is Jewishism.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13034	The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13035	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is what we Serbian radicals defend our views. You heard from colleagues today, this morning Mr. Todorovic started a story about it, but just before Mrs. Judita Popovic said what is the essence of the LDP's reaction to the visit of Miladin Kovacevic to the National Assembly. Well said Mrs. Vice President of the National Assembly - we should be good to everyone, to work with everyone. That, of course, is not controversial, but not in the way you see it, Madam Vice President of the National Assembly. You said well - why should we put our finger around America, why not please the Americans and give them this Miladin Kovacevic? We have fought for this constitution that does not allow the extradition of citizens of Serbia and there is no such interest, there is no American condition that is more important to us than any Serbian citizen, whether he is Miladin Kovacevic or anyone else. We're talking absolutely principled this time. And what democratic principles represent, I mean, first of all, the state and the administration of America? You heard - the merciful angel, Iraq, you heard the attitude of the Americans. Which American anywhere in the world was responsible for anything outside America? And you know what crimes they've committed in Iraq. And today and today they're holding Guantanamo. Don't you know that, don't we? Is it the only state that formed the International Court of Justice in The Hague and forced everyone to sign an act on the establishment of that court, and the Americans did not sign it because they did not allow the citizens of America to judge even some international court, which was formed because they wanted to. Well, that's how Americans take care of their citizens, even if they're criminals, even if they're war criminals, even if they're not the kind of criminals, and you're here to please Hillary Clinton, who said that she would... (President: Time.) Please, Mrs. Radeta, three minutes are up. Here, I'm done. So, we won't allow it, we're sure neither will the judicial authorities, that they will take care of Article 32. The constitution and we will not allow Hillary Clinton's wishes to be fulfilled and that the innocent boy Miladin Kovacevic is sent to America to get a life sentence there.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13036	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13037	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs, in the absence of arguments, NATO, and Hamas, and Chad, and the Zemun clan are working together. From this I can conclude that in the case of brothers and sisters, the radicals still carry out the feeling that they were wrong. And that's good, as soon as you talk about everything and everything, not what we said. We say, receiving in parliament a man who has an arrest warrant and who is tried is, under one, a pressure on the judiciary, and under two, destroys the dignity of the Assembly. We didn't say anything else. We're not saying he needs to be extradited to America, no one said that. He should be tried. He's not being tried because he's a Serb, he's being charged with a crime. If your leader is in custody, that doesn't mean you're fond of everyone with the charges, everyone on the warrant. Don't do this for you, for the sake of Parliament and for this country. That's what we said and nothing else, and don't replace the thesis. By the way, when you mention Hamas, I can tell you that three leaders have not welcomed Obama's inauguration. The leader of Hamasa said he was no different from Bush. Putin jealously said that great disappointments come after great hopes. Who's third? We didn't read in the paper that Boris Tadic congratulated him. So don't take Boris Tadic so often, because in some things, at least when it comes to Hillary Clinton, you don't know the difference. Therefore, we say - if you care to represent the citizens who elected you, and not only those on arrest warrants and indictments but also honest citizens, then don't ruin this Parliament's reputation and your own. We're not asking Kovacevic to surrender to America, we're just saying he has an APB. Hey, guys, what's up? Is there an APB because he's a Serb or because he's out of justice? Well, does Hashim Thaci have an APB? There is. Why? You think he's out of justice. Then what's the difference? Because he's one Serb and the other Albanian? Tomorrow, by that logic, you will receive Thaci here. If you love those with warrants, there are plenty of them in Serbia, including what is on the paper part of Serbia, which is Kosovo. And that's on paper because of you and your policy because, when it happened, you were in power, with your coalition partners who are on this side, not LDP, not Ceda Jovanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13038	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, who is calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask him to say which member is injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I am calling for Rule 226. I'm looking for an explanation. I, and the MPs of the SRS, and all MPs in the Serbian Parliament, and the Serbian public need that notice. Namely, has Ivica Dacic, the police minister, resigned and has Tomislav Nikolic been elected instead? A little while after the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, passing by me, in the presence of journalists, Tomislav Nikolic said he would arrest me. If Tomislav Nikolic has become a minister, then you will have to, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, find under emergency location, build a camp, because he will have to arrest at least 450,000 radicals, and there will be those who are not radical, but think radically. And if not, I ask to be explained on what basis Tomislav Nikolic can arrest Serbia. However, there's a possibility that he was authorized by the CIA, MI-6, since, ever since he fell off the SRS, he's been working very intensively with these intelligence services, so maybe he got a warrant to arrest the radicals, and I guess I was the first one there when he got that warrant, so he's coming from me. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens' behaviour of Tomislav Nikolic must finally be placed within the framework of justice and justice. Citizen Tomislav Nikolic cannot arrest MP Momir Markovic and MPs in parliament. And if you can, then tell us, so we know what's going on and we know what's waiting for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13040	Mr. Markovic, you have abused the Rules of Procedure. You can't get a word over the line if you don't advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask all MPs that, protecting the reputation of the Assembly, they act exclusively and solely according to the Rules of Procedure. The word is from the MP Slobodan Maraš, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13041	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported for breach of Article 104. As Mr Ostojić said earlier, of course there is an attempt to replace the thesis. What we have tried to point out from the LDP is that the arrival of Mr. Miladin Kovacevic, who has been indicted in America for a certain crime, violates the Assembly's reputation. We still think that's the case. All your attempts to explain to us that it's a little boy, that he's a Serb, that he's a athlete, etc., I don't think it makes any sense. The person was accused of a serious crime, of assault, and of wanting to express his gratitude to you and some other political parties, he could have done so elsewhere. But much more than that made me report what Mr. Martinovic said. Mr. Martinovic, you and I both know, and everyone here knows that you're a lawyer, that you're an assistant at law school and that you know very well that you've committed abuse of what you said when it comes to Cedomir Jovanovic. Now I'm going to try to explain it to those who aren't lawyers. You know very well that when someone tells the court that they heard something from someone, especially when they're dead, but that they're alive, the one they're referring to can't sue them. Cedomir Jovanovic and LDP filed 170th suit against "Kurir" for writing the way it writes. You tried here, very maliciously, to link the entry into this building of the president of a parliamentary party, whom certain services through these media called a murderer, and you tried to link him to Mr. Miladin Kovacevic's arrival yesterday. Mr Kovacevic in no way can be measured with Mr Jovanovic. Mr Jovanovic has been the target again for six, seven or eight years by the service, as they did in 2002, 2003 and the following years. For this reason, Mr. Martinovic, you and I both know well that by saying you only tried to abuse your legal knowledge and the way you re-insulted the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13042	The word is Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 225 and 226. Please don't talk about Mr. Miladin Kovacevic as a serial killer. In any case, I would return the story to those who are illegally sitting in parliament, who are in strong ties and are connected to criminals. Exactly, as Mrs Popovic said, the occasion for this whole discussion was rude words that Nikolic sent to SRS MP Gordani Pop-Lazic. It's the same one who screamed unarticulously from the congregation pay phone yesterday. It's the same one that, according to the statements he made in one of the interviews, is in close contact with criminals. This is exactly what the MUP and BIA are all about. Namely, Tomislav Nikolic, as an accomplice to The Hague prosecutor's office, continued to lead the hunt against Vojislav Seselj and to tell lies about alleged assassinations organised under the Vojislav Seselj directive. The whole fictional story of the alleged assassinations of Nikolic, which he has spoken countless times in public, is abounds with contradictions because Nikolic has become involved in his own lies. Although the fact that he doesn't know what he's saying is also due to his very difficult mental condition. I talked about contradictions in those stories of his alleged assassinations earlier, but another part of the story, in which Nikolic has denied himself again, appeared in his latest interview. In fact, Nikolic has so far claimed that the MUP has data concerning these alleged assassinations on it, as well as that police prevented the assassination at the end of September. So far, these claims, that the police have all the information, that the police know everything, that the police have prevented the assassination, have been the basis of Nikolic's impertinent attack on a man who has no ability to deny those accusations. These claims were also the basis of the accumulated stories that filled the newspaper. Now Nikolic, however, claims quite the opposite, that police have not investigated an assassination attempt at at all. Nikolic now declares: "I spoke to Ivica Dacic, and he said there was no knowledge of assassination attempts." It is obvious that this knowledge exists only in the head of Tomislav Nikolic. Then Nikolic says, "I even told him," so Dacic, "where a house in Belgrade can be found with explosives and weapons". The SRS requires the MUP and BIA to provide information on whether they have any knowledge of the alleged assassinations of Nikolic and any involvement of Vojislav Seselj and SRS in these alleged assassinations. We also demand that Tomislav Nikolic be examined and that the origin of his knowledge of houses in Belgrade be established in which explosives and weapons can be found. How does Nikolic know that and the police don't know? Was he staying in those houses? Does that mean he's hanging out with criminals? So we demand to examine Tomislav Nikolic's ties with criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13044	Mr. Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13045	Reporting under Article 104. I'd like to, on behalf of the LDP, bring this discussion to an end because we're not going to explain anything to each other. We have our political views, you have your own. We're still at it and of course we think we're right. It's about a man who's been accused and against whom there's a process in domestic law for a crime which, in doing so, is violent. For us, there is not enough explanation that he is one nation, and the one who has suffered the consequences is another nation and therefore does not deserve to be supported. Our remarks, which Mrs Pesic made here, were not against the SRS. Your attitude is famous. That young man was with you yesterday and was, or together with you, it doesn't matter. What we pointed at, that's two things. The first is that that's how you influence the court. He's being prosecuted. By supporting him, you're putting pressure on the court. That's one thing, we disagree on that, and that's the other thing, the fundamental observation and the reason we came forward is the absence of a response from the people who run this parliament. We have clear SRS views, LDP views are clear, but what is the position of the chairman of this assembly, what is the ruling majority's position? Just the absence of such an attitude leads to the lowest reputation this home has in the last few years I don't know how many years. I don't want to get involved in life. Life is, unfortunately, our daily policy. The lack of conviction or support (I don't know, I don't want to get into it) of such an event that is an incident, and that's also what this one-hour debate here is about, tearing down the reputation of this assembly. I repeat, we will no longer answer the word unless we are challenged. I suppose you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13046	You have to let those people who won't have an extreme attitude, not as an LDP, not as an SRS. So you have to let there are people who understand human rights in their own way and you have to let it be very important for both individual and individual groups, and of course it's particularly important for man. As far as I'm concerned, human rights are guaranteed both by law and ethical principles. It doesn't always have to be a match, and I don't think it's always a match. Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13047	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, I appeal to Article 27. This thing about getting into the National Assembly and the emotional state of some people, I'm really not in charge of these things, I just know there's security and it doesn't allow anyone who's forbidden to enter the National Assembly. However, we now have a situation to enter and some who should not even be in the O.R., but that is the consequence of this type of parliamentaryism. I answered because yesterday in the discussion, an alleged MP said some things that, apart from not being true, are deeply intruding into something concerning the work of the National Assembly. Just to remind you, on 4 August 2008, the Government of the Republic of Serbia sent the National Assembly a bill on the final account of the Republic of Serbia's 2007 budget. Since there was indeed a kind of disavulation of both the Assembly and the MPs yesterday, I would ask you that, because the bill was delivered does not mean that there is a law, and someone has informed us that we have not been informed that the final account exists. There isn't, there's only a bill on the final account. Of course, and DRI has to say something about this to get it on the agenda. Given that the Rules of Procedure will be resolved, I propose that this bill on the final budget bill for 2007, so if there is a proposal for 2006, if there is a bill for a previous year, that it be at one of the next sessions of the National Assembly, because, when the proposals are adopted and they become laws, then we will have defined what consumption was like by all the budgeting users who show up in the budget and then we will not be the victims of arbitrary interpretation of bad information to the public. So when the government makes its own bill, it's a bill of law. When does that become true, true, binding? The moment the National Assembly completes the debate and adopts the law on the final budget account. It's very simple to understand. But I understand what it's all about, someone wants to be informed that something the Kobayagi knows, to keep in the loop. The bill is something that changes, people. And with the draft bill on the final budget account, it's possible that interventions through amendments are possible, so before we have a review report, and someone here represents a done deal. (President: Time, Mr. Krassic. ) I would ask you to keep this proposal in mind when you draw up the agenda of future meetings of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13048	Mrs. Hope Kolundji has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13049	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are politically different here in many issues, in some we are on diametrically different sides, and this is not controversial, but what must not be subject to political vision is respect for the integrity of institutions and, therefore, respect for the integrity of the state. This isn't about some young man. This is about a young man who is accused in another country of a criminal offence, who is accused in this country of a crime and of being an international obligation of the country, and any attempt to abuse any institution in order to show itself standing up to defend those accused of such crimes is a threat to the integrity of the institution, is a threat to the international position and integrity of the country. And that's all this is about. We can differ from how we view what crime, national or otherwise, it is the right of each individual, but it is an obligation for everyone to protect the integrity of the institution and to protect the integrity of the state. I remind you, the state of Serbia is in big trouble because of this issue. If we as an institution don't try to help the state solve this problem by respecting the Constitution and the laws of our own country and by not violating our international position, then we get rid of the country we're supposed to stand for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13050	Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13051	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I end the controversy with my LDP colleagues, but I must present one of my impressions to LDP and DS colleagues and give a friendly advice. Former US President Bill Clinton will remain remembered in history for two things, after the bombing of the SCG and by the affair with Monica Levinski. Now the Clintons have returned to the political scene of America and again wants to make hats for the whole world, including the Serbian people. Indeed, gentlemen of the LDP and you, gentlemen of the DS, I give you friendly advice, do not play the new Monica Levinski.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13052	Mr. Ivan Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13053	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this person who has previously spoken of herself enough with this statement, so we have nothing to add. I've called in another case. Madam President, on behalf of the LDP parliamentary group, I demand that you apologize for your position, which may be your private position and we do not enter and we do not care, which is that something we stand for is extreme. If that's your opinion, why didn't you warn the head of the parliamentary club, the ruling majority, too, of an extreme attitude? When we talk about the integrity of institutions, it's not given. It's not a thing that stands, it says in the Constitution, the law, so that's understood. That integrity defends itself every day. President of the Assembly, even under Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which represents us, all MPs, have no right to remain silent about such matters. If he doesn't have that power, he shouldn't be in that place. These things are very simple. A broken reputation is not the result of the conduct of some of the opposition parties, it is the responsibility and effect of the conduct of only people who run parliament and the ruling majority. If this integrity of the institution is not defended every day, the subject in the paper is allowed to be the price of meals in the National Assembly, not politics. Because it is the desire of the ruling coalition, not to discuss politics, but to transfer the burden of responsibility to all MPs, to all parliamentary groups. If you want to defend the congregation's reputation on each individual case, you have no right to remain silent. If it's up to us, we'll defend him every time. The other side's opinion we respect. The SRS has received votes for what it represents, but I repeat from the president of the Assembly, we demand an apology for calling the opinion of a 250,000-seat parliamentary group, a parliamentary group that is greater than its own, extreme. It's unacceptable for us. We understand the idea, the desire that everything that is not in the DS, the ruling coalition or the party of Tom Nikolic is extreme, but that is not so. We represent 250,000 citizens. The president of the assembly called 250,000 citizens extremists. For such a thing, the President of Parliament has no right and we demand an apology for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13054	Mr. Andric, I'm really sorry that you misunderstood me. You got me all wrong. I wasn't talking about the extreme parliamentary groups, but I was saying you don't have to ask us for an explicit extreme statement. In that sense, I was saying, we'll take a look at the stenogram. It's possible I even said... (Ivan Andric, from the post: You said - attitudes of LDP and SRS. ) Please, an explicit statement, especially when it comes to issues that have legislative and moral sides, and which do not have to be matched. Officially-legal, the MPs of the SRS did what they did, brought the man in here. Formal-legal obstacles, there was no ban, and I don't have any members under the Rules of Procedure, the law, on which I could react, with the function I am in, to prohibit this man from entering parliament. Did the MPs do what you say, whether their intention was to put pressure on the court, that is to say by some other authorities, and not by us in the congregation. Everything I wanted to say was actually contained in that. In case you really realized that in any sense I made anyone an extremist, especially with a negative connotation, I really apologize to you. Mr. Ostojić first has a word. Believe me, I'm calling in order how the MPs called in, it's on file.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13055	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you are in that position with LDP's will, but with the will of the ruling majority. But you represent this other side, including the LDP. That you, who come from a party that ruled in the 1990s, call someone's ideas extreme, are truly hypocritical. We just said that receiving to the Parliament of the man who has Interpol's warrant, who is being tried, is the destruction of the Parliament's dignity. You're the head of that assembly. Now I will teach you so that if I were President of the Assembly, I would react to this situation, and speaking for you, as members of a party that led an extreme policy in the 1990s. Every man, a Serbian citizen, has the right to enter the Assembly -- that's what you said, but I would say it is not good for parliament that one parliamentary group has received the person who has the indictment, who is being tried, who has an arrest warrant and that violates Parliament's dignity. That would cover all those you represent, all 250 MPs, and that wouldn't be extreme. What you said yesterday was extremism. Everyone has a right... Well, tomorrow when the young man comes to the assembly, will you say the same thing? You'll say. And when we go out and say that it's not in the interests of the people, the state, the dignity of the Assembly, then you'll say that it's as extreme as the one who brought Mladic, or the man on the warrant, to the Assembly. Please try. You remember that summer was not an extremism for you even when the late prime minister was insulted from here, so the majority who elected you voted not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Don't use that word, at least not you from the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13056	Mr. Petar Jojic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13057	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the sense of the provisions of the article. In 225 and 226, I ask a parliamentary question and I ask for a notice – as far as the investigation against the criminals who kidnapped Serbs at KIM has arrived, and does the special prosecutor of war crimes have certain evidence that he has come forward and has grounds to press charges since Carla del Ponte in her book found it and stated that these cases were for the sale of the organs of the kidnapped and murdered Serbs? When it comes to coming to the National Assembly of our young Serb, Miladin Kovacevic, it is not necessary to qualify for his arrival because it is not in accordance with international norms and international law. I would agree that in the American Congress, they reacted as some do today that the American Congress and its dignity were injured by Wesley Clark entering the Senate, and Wesley Clarke was known to give orders and command NATO units and their air force, whose bombers had 1,300 flights a day on the territory of the former SRJ. I'd agree, you'd be right if international reciprocity were applied, if Americans were responsible for crimes committed outside the U.S. territory. Then we can talk about reciprocity, but you gentlemen will also apply unilateral standards here. So we will unilaterally extradite our citizens, but the Americans cannot receive and we cannot judge them in our country. We should also annul and abolish the judicial decisions that led our courts to tell the villains and the terrorists who killed and broke the SRJ. As long as there is no judicial decision, no one can be found guilty or committed a crime. Don't speculate with these provisions of international law. It's written in international law, in UN resolutions. Don't blame anyone in advance. There's a presummation of innocence. One simple APB because a Serb hit two slaps once there, who attacked his girlfriend (President: Time, please. There can't be a reason to qualify here... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13058	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13059	I'm reporting under Rule 104 for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and please, Madam Chairman... (President: I ask Mr. Suleiman Spah not to beat or interfere with the speaker. ) In accordance with Article 104, I would like to, by advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, actually respond to Mr Krasic: If you had kept quiet, you would have stayed a philosopher. This is how, as chairman of the Finance Committee, you have shown two shortcomings - ignorance and negligence. In yesterday's discussion about the DRI, I said that the final bill was submitted to this assembly for 2007 and 2006, and, although it was not discussed, it was not possible to become laws, which was clear to everyone here, it remained unclear for you, and I am very sorry if you also run the Finance Committee with such expertise. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13060	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13061	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I appeal to a member of our 27th Rules of Procedure. Just to let you know that when I go out for the assembly pay phone, I comment on what the MPs say, I don't comment on what's written in the paper and what's heard on the street. A little while ago, I was talking specifically about the discussion of an MP from the DS. You're going to have to do something because your tolerance for an illegal condition is obviously putting the work of the National Assembly at risk. I'm not authorized here to replicate to the citizens. I was talking about an DS MP who came out here and said some things, which is why I used the draft budget bill. I don't comment on what's heard in the halls, I don't comment on what's in the papers, unless it's a threat to the state's interests. Therefore, take care when applying Article 27, because you see that you are missing some pranks.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-23-0.u13062	I thank and conclude a unique search on the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on a motion for a decision in the voting day. We'll do the vote today. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Friday, 23 January 2009, starting at 13.55 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. So, one four or five minutes break and we'll vote. [[After break – 13.55]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to decision-making on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day, exist if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 149 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than 126 MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. Decision-making on agenda points. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – I am putting the motion for a decision to give consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Audit Institution. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 193, abstention 14, was not voted by one of the 208 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Rules of Procedure of the State Auditing Institution. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – I am putting this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: 197, abstentions 14, of the 211 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commissioner's act on information of public importance. Thank you. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all the points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Let me just give you a few more information, please. The session that was scheduled to be today, I'm scheduled for Monday at 10.00 hours. I think it's good for time and all the other reasons to take a little break by then. Let me just inform you that we do not have conditions, according to the advice of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Micunovic, who has both formally and essentially analysed the situation relating to delegations, that our delegation travels to Strasbourg. Actually, we don't have a delegation and I can't give consent. Opinion in writing isn't over yet. You can wait for him, but it will be delivered to the parliamentary groups.
