ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12260	I'm reporting for an officer. 225 and 226, because I believe that not only me and my fellow MPs but also the citizens, who are members of the SPC, remains unclear, we lack information, why are we celebrating this new year in this new year and not in some other liturgic, church, even solemn atmosphere? In that name, I have a question for Minister of Faith Bogoljub Šijakovic, who is a prominent acquaintance of the role of all of us laymen of the people of God in church, how many in Serbia currently have baptized residents baptized in the SPC? If it is known that baptism is in fact a kind of sacred ticket, which becomes a member of the Church, and if it is known that the vast majority of citizens are baptized right in the SPC, then it is quite unreasonable that today, which is a red letter like Christmas, is not also declared a state holiday. Let's do a flash poll here among the MPs. Let all those baptized in the SPC raise their hands. Get out of party discipline now, you on this side, I guess you're baptized, people. Do something to God, don't do yourself. The conclusion that most of the people who belong to the SPC live in Serbia and for which this day, the day of the circumcision of the Lord Jesus Christ and the Holy Vassili the Great, is actually the beginning of the year, does not mean that we... (can it be a little quieter, I know that to you the Holy Vasilia is the Great Side, but it is quite effective) we force this day as a holiday for our brothers and sisters who have accepted the new calendar. This congregation also respected Christmas celebrations on a new calendar, December 25, which is quite natural and expected. Orthodoxy, like the true glory of God, involves both life and life, which means that we respect our neighbor and strive to love him as another godly being. The limits of faith exist, but the limits of love do not. The Holy Vassili, whom we are celebrating today, did not become great by the fact that he was, in modern times, a doctor of philosophy, rhetoric, astronomy and all other world sciences of that time. He was great, for he understood the words of the Psalm well: take away from evil, and do good. What does the Lord ask of us, our brothers and sisters? He asks that our souls always be turned to good, that we leave evil behind, in the shadows, in the abyss of oblivion, in the darkness of the former, and we day after day, year after year to think good, to long for good, to talk about good, and to do good. The Lord seeketh the builders, not the destroyers: for he that buildeth up good, thus bringeth down evil. But whoever turns around to bring down evil, quickly forgets to build good and turns into a criminal, says St. Vladika Nikolai in the Ohrid Prologue. In the name of respect for these words and the words of God, which is love alone, I congratulate you all of New Year's, and I call on you to remember from today, especially in this House, that every word we say here and how it echoes forever. Happy Serbian Orthodox New Year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12261	The word is Mr. Markicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12262	Dear Presidents, fellow MPs, respected Ministers of Faith, respected Serbian citizens of Orthodox religion, on behalf of New Serbia, and I hope on behalf of the entire Assembly, I congratulate you on the Serbian New Year. It was and remained a holiday important to all Serbs. Madam President, I've got an article. 225th and 226th for you, and please answer me immediately after last time you ignored my question. Why did this congratulatory home, I said holy home, and someone smiled at it, and I think people's will is gathered here, and that's why this house is sacred, why are we working on Serbian New Year's Day today? Why are we an hour late today? Because we don't have a quorum, today I've talked to 50 people from the ruling coalition, from all parties, and everyone agrees that we shouldn't have worked today and that this is a shame. Today is the Serbian New Year. By 45, that new year was celebrated, not this one. We know why it was banned after 45th. I had the honor of being arrested as a 10-year-old boy, with my elders, for celebrating that new year. Is the time to be ashamed of it again? I have one more question for you, Madam Vice President, to answer me immediately, and also a question for all your colleagues here in the National Assembly, what is this hole, and for all the citizens to see well, what is this hole behind your back, where are these two flags, what is it here in the Assembly? Should we stand our two flags; on our coat of arms and our flag that we have finally brought and we are proud of it? That's not why, gentlemen. Here was the postament behind your back, on which was the bust of Joseph Broz, the executioner of the Serbian. Do I want to believe that Serbia's citizens should believe today that his spirit is still in this House? That's for you to answer me. Is that why we're working here today? Does anyone want to say that for ten years, what we've been fighting for the freedom of the Serbian people and all the citizens of Serbia, that we're undoing it today, as irrelevant or strange as it sounds to you? What are we going to do today, when by half-eight it takes because Partizan plays basketball, all of Serbia knows it? So this is a slap to the Serbian people on purpose done today on the Serbian New Year's Eve to do it, but we will always celebrate it. And they all have their new year, and Islam, and the Jews, and the Chinese, have Serbs, and they will celebrate it while there is no Serb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12263	Mr Markicevic, the largest number of MPs have just made a proposal not to work on yesterday, and this also coincided with the procedure of this parliament, to start an hour later today. Why didn't we start at 12 o'clock? Because the Legislative Committee had not yet completed its work, and we needed a report to begin with this session. As for the space and names, the character and works of Joseph Broz Tito, there are many who view it as sacred, and this parliament is exactly the highest state instance and those and those who view it the way you said it. I don't think it's in the spirit of Orthodoxism, of Serbianness and today's day to advocate the topics that divide us, on the contrary, and I suggest we continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Branka Ljiljak called.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12264	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform the Assembly that the Committee on Finance will submit an amendment to the proposal for a law supplementing the customs tariff law, because in the meantime there has been a technical error that we want to correct and we just want to inform you that you will receive a report from the Finance Committee shortly after the technical editorial is completed. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12265	You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Dejan Mirović, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Natasa Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Donka Banović, Milica Vojić-Marković and together Milica Radović and Miroslav Petkovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. But before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Srdjan Spasojevic. Mr. Suleyman Spaho also called, but he's gone. Yes, and Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12266	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I am truly surprised by the explanation of President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, who I otherwise greatly appreciate. I can't accept that you can say that Joseph Broz needs someone in this country to respect him. Mrs. Dejanovic, we are coming from the city, I will say on behalf of my city, that the politics of Joseph Broz has halved my city of Kralje, that 6,000 people were killed, shot by the wrong politics of Joseph Broz, and something similar happened in your city. Six thousand banners were black in the King, in 6,000 houses suffered by the politics of Joseph Broz. It is really not correct that on the Serbian New Year, where my colleague, the deputy head of the parliamentary group, Miroslav Markicevic, warned you of something that is perfectly normal, you reacted as you responded. In addition, it is not true that the Legislative Committee was sitting, the Legislative Committee had no quorum and did not start working, so we delayed the start of this congregation. I'm a member of the Legislative Committee, and I can absolutely say that. So he didn't start working on time when he was first scheduled, that's another thing. The third thing, when we talked about everything on the Committee on the Constitution, I asked you warmly that if this is already the case, since we are really celebrating the Serbian New Year, Orthodox, every year, that at least today's session start at 15 hours. What have we achieved? You didn't appreciate that either. So don't at least celebrate Joseph Broz Tito in this Serbian parliament, it's really not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12267	The word is Suleiman Spaho. He's not here. Mr. Sasa Milenić, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12268	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is extremely important to agree on some basic rules of conduct in the representative body of citizens when it comes to a loud talk on the most intimate issues of millions. It is not done, as we wanted to hear an interpretation that offends national dignity, including these congregations, of some weirdness of a people who think that the new year begins on January 13th or that Christians celebrate on January 7th. Like any other Christian people, both the Serbian people and the Serbian Orthodox Church celebrate on December 25th and the new year begin on January 1st. The issue of the Julian calendar is a question that really concerns the Serbian Orthodox Church. I think it's precisely the duty of politicians who feel loved and this community not to mention it in Serbia's political life. The particular reason for this lies in the general value of a civil society concerning freedom of conscience. As with an unfinished pyramidal system, babies are brought to this world, so man lives a period with fountains, so it is a matter of relations with God of one wound that every man of birth carries, unconsciously or consciously, cultured or primitively, through a church organization or otherwise. Each man deals with it, and it is very rude to chat about the wounds of others, and hence, it is the practice in the countries of Western democracy that this issue, concerning the freedom of conscience of every individual, is not spoken out loud because it is rude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12269	Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dejan Mirovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mirovic, go ahead and then Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12270	Ladies and gentlemen, Reverend Donka Banovic and I have submitted the same amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12271	I'm sorry, I'll extend your time. MPs can't hear and beg for microphones to be repaired. But the microphones are fine, we're noisy. Please be quiet. Mr. Shormaz, I'd like to ask you to move the holiday atmosphere from this space to another.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12272	Ladies and gentlemen, Reverend Donka Banovic and I have submitted the same amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. So that we do not repeat ourselves, I will present a broader context for the submission of this amendment. The reasons for submitting this amendment are, above all, of a principled nature. The law in general sucks. We in the SRS, as well as most neutral economists, at this point do not believe in the phrase of so-called the free market and the elimination of customs duties for ideology. The SRS is most strongly opposed to this law in general because, as it explains, it primarily allows the implementation of the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade Issues between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia, on the other. Otherwise, such an explanation is formal and incorrect, because in practice it is, as is generally known, a unilateral application of the agreement. Also, unilateral application is a phenomenon known in legal science, for example in relations between the colony and the metropolis. So the bill only brings damage to our budget. The unilateral application of the agreement, which will cost us about 23 billion dinars or 260m euros, according to the December 2008 NBS course, is another reason for submitting the amendment to the same principled nature. We believe that customs policy is a very important instrument of the overall economic policy and that it must, above all, adapt to real global conditions, and these conditions at this point require just an increase in customs rates, not a reduction in them. We have in mind the development of modern economic theory. In fact, the economic team of the SRS is not burdened with a dogmatic approach. When making amendments, it does not apply the ideology of the IMF and Brussels, which essentially represents liberalisation at all costs, liberalisation of which is benefit only by large companies from rich countries. It essentially comes down to one rule: the rich should have an even greater nature, and that must be financed by poor countries. Unlike this approach, which is based on the ideology or interests of large monopolies, borrowing and liberalisation of customs rates, we believe that economic science has done, if we want to express ourselves more freely, full circle. Of course, you don't think of Karl Marks here, because his approach has more to do with ideology and it's similar to this ruling Brussels ideology, which also promises utopia in a few years, when and if we enter virtual Brussels paradise. On the contrary, we believe that the policy of endless borrowing and elimination of customs rates, as sources of budgetary resources and tax increases affecting domestic populations, not foreign exporters or, more specifically, policies financed by the IMF and the EU, is essentially wrong. It should be stressed that it is the common policy of these two organisations. Right in Article 117. The SAA says the EU will coordinate its policy with the IMF. More specifically, it is a policy that allowed such a harmful bill to appear in the process at the time of the financial crisis. Instead of withdrawing the bill, as it was clear in October or November 2008 that the financial crisis would hit both our country and the Republic's budget, he entered the procedure right at a time when the government did not deny that there was a possible budget rebalance. Also, when making the amendments, we have come from widely known economic rules. It is known that against borrowing were still old economists and founders of modern science in this area. Today's leading world economists, such as Nobel laureates Joseph Stiglic, also come forward against the liberalisation and borrowings that are forging exactly the IMF and the EU, so against a policy whose product is this bill. You have heard and seen the performances of Stiglic during his recent visit to Belgrade, but for those who follow economic science without scarcity and dogmatic methods, it is no secret that in 2002, Stiglic, in his book "The Anti-Georgism", translated into Serbian, wrote: "We are now much better at seeing the reform process than we could five years ago, when the IMF and the World Bank rushed with the conclusion that their strategies function. The IMF does not only achieve those objectives that are set by its original work cycle - to strengthen global stability and to provide capital that will enable countries, which face the danger of recession, to run an expansion policy. He, on the other hand, is realising the financial interests of the West community. This means that the IMF has goals that are often with each other in conflict." So it was carried out by Stiglitz back in 2002. More than clear. However, in our country not only is there no criticism of the IMF's policy-making way, but the approach, contrary to real circumstances, is even untastefully glorified to the limit, and precisely by the authorities. For example, it is openly said that the IMF played a key role in budgeting. The governor and ministers even speak of this financial institution with some kind of hidden awe. There is artificial tension, according to the system, whether and when the IMF will nominate our government's economic programme, and all this despite the fact that the institution has lost its reputation even more in serious economists and serious states since Stiglic wrote his book nearly seven years ago. So, the concept of neoliberalism, the elimination of customs duties, the ease of borrowing and the fight against social giving, the product of which is this law, has suffered a complete decline since the global crisis. In addition, the IMF opposes subsidies to the poor layers of the population, for example for heating, even the mayor of Belgrade admitted. It's also an interesting example of former US Federal Reserve Chief Allen Greenspen. The man who, in fact, led the American economy for the last two decades, and free to say good deeds and worlds, the man who is probably the biggest culprit for this financial crisis, admitted in October 2008, to the congress committee that questioned him about the collapse of the American economy, that politics is so-called. the free market, which he represented while he was at the head of the American central bank, essentially wrong. To the direct question of Congressman Wexman - do you think that your ideology is correct or that it was not successful, Greenspen literally replied: "Absolutely so". Nobelian Stiglic, otherwise this recognition of Greenspen, commented on the following words: "As Greenspen himself admits now, self-regulatory is contrary to common sense." However, even Greenspen has given up his liberal ideology, some in our country persistently and at all costs, at the heart of budget revenues, continue to represent this harmful dogma and argue that our small market will only regulate the losses that produce a harmful decision to apply the Transition Agreement. Also, that free trade is something that in itself brings about a improvement and that is why all customs duties should be abolished in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why, even today, when the decision to unilaterally apply the transitional agreement is explained, we are listening to the phrases about the free game between our companies and the Western monopoly companies, which are present in the region right now and which are only formally held as companies from the countries where we are surrounded. For example, the largest, reportedly Slovenian exporter in 2007, was Revos with 1.2 billion euros, but the company is owned by Reno and the main profit goes to France. Also, it is particularly incomprehensible that this dogmatic glorification of IMF and EU policies by the authorities, if it is known that even seven years ago here, so much of the glorified IMF has had problems to explain how it is possible to help poor countries at the same time, as it is still ours, while at the same time implementing a neoliberal policy, so-called. the free market, which is currently benefiting the rich and the economies that are being helped by these Western countries. This explanation of the impossible and in our country has led to an absurd situation that I have already stated, that it is a phrase of some free fair game between our producers and multinational companies, although these companies have profits and subsidies often higher than our GDP or the overall budget. Such an unreal and harmful policy, which has led to such a harmful bill, which allows the budget to be reduced by 260m euros, at a time when the demagogue is said to have to save, even on lamps, even seven years ago, Stiglic wrote about what is not said in our public, that this is the biggest propaganda problem of the IMF and is trying to explain something that does not exist. This problem always comes up with every IMF programme. Stiglic defined it as follows: "This tension is so much higher because this conflict cannot be brought out publicly. If the new role of the IMF was publicly recognised, support for the institution could drop. A simplified free market ideology has provided a front for real jobs under the new IMF mandate. ''These real jobs can be easily understood when it is considered that, as Stiglic writes, exactly Western financial interests dominated the understandings of the IMF. So our citizens need to understand that it's not about any free market, helping the poor, maintaining stability or anything like that. It's about as old as all mankind, long, interest or the exploitation of poor or undercovered vegetables. That's why we need to throw away this bill that's before us. We need to turn to work, raise productivity and industrial production. Only after the recovery of our economy and the change of global economic flows is it possible to lower protection measures, the base of which has always been a strong customs policy. Of course, we are not in principle against a free trade contract, especially when it comes to a contract with the Russian Federation of 2000. It's our only real development and export chance, and no phrases about the Brussels road or the IMF parole can hide that truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12273	The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12274	On behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 of this bill. Namely, the Government is supplementing Article 2 of the applicable Customs Tariff Act, i.e. the Government proposes to add to Article 2 a new position which reads: "To imports of goods originating in countries with which the Republic of Serbia has concluded free trade agreements, customs rates provided for in these agreements are applied." I propose that Article 1 be deleted and that no addition be made to an existing member of the law be made. If that were possible under the Rules of Procedure, I would submit an amendment to delete this whole bill. However, since that is not possible, I can only suggest that this first member be deleted. Perhaps it is also a matter of thinking for a working group that is currently working on the creation of a new Rules of Procedure, to simply allow MPs to propose an amendment proposing to delete the entire bill. Some of the laws that come into this assembly are very harmful for both Serbian citizens, both in the economy and in the economy of Serbia. Why does the government propose a reduction in customs duties, even somewhere to lift customs duties on some import products? Because the Serbian government is resolved, and firmly, to unilaterally implement the transitional trade agreement it has signed with the EU. So Serbia will unilaterally implement the agreement and meet some obligations under the contract that are directly harmful to the citizens of Serbia and to the full economy. As far as the bill is concerned, short-term damage for 2009, or when we pass this bill in the budget will be less than 150m euros. You MPs think carefully about whether this law should be passed. The story of overcoming impasses in European integration and decisions on unilateral application is another marketing trick, similar to the signing of the agreement we saw before last year's parliamentary elections. In the finale of the election race, DS leaders signed the SAA, which could only be talked about in those days as a sacred book, which will solve all problems in Serbia. Anyone who dared to tell the truth about the agreement, that the agreement was a dead letter on paper, because it was immediately put out of force, was exposed to a terrible criticism and was declared an anti-European. Now we all see that the agreement does not mean anything to Serbia, because the other side, or EU member states, is blocking it. Until Serbia meets the condition set out in Article 59. The transitional agreement, which concerns co-operation with The Hague tribunal, will not apply to the EU. So, citizens are first deceived by the false European enthusiasm of the government and then by the expectations that the trade agreement will be defrosted in Brussels, and then, as a highlight of the hypocrisy of EU officials, they are offered its unilateral application. Deputy Prime Minister Djelic, who is in charge of European affairs in the government, says that Serbia will show by applying the agreement to the world that it is determined to have a European future. They say in government, our economy will be guaranteed by a market of 500 million consumers. The first lie is that the Union will guarantee anything. They won't guarantee anything, because for the Union, this agreement doesn't exist, so there's no obligation. The second least said half-information refers to a market of 500 million consumers, with the set itself not responding to the truth, because it is not the Union that opens the borders, but Serbia that opens the borders by reducing and abolishing customs duties on imported products. However, it should not be forgotten that the export of certain domestic products, primarily industrial, to EU countries has been allowed for eight years. Due to the poor equipment and low productivity of our companies, our companies could never even meet that quota for export. According to some analyses, some industries have managed only 40% of the quota allowed to export. Are our companies and businesses ready for such a match? Is the match that the Serbian government is pushing them into fair and equal? No, it's not. Experts say opening a market for competition, which is better developed and more capable, will cause the company to shut down. Domestic companies will be hit by unfair competition from abroad. The public must know that EU countries subsidise food and agricultural producers with three times as much resources as Serbia does, and in such a relationship, there is no question of healthy competition. While these EU countries, especially at the moment of the global economic crisis, are therefore struggling to defend their economic interests and are trying to save their businesses, Serbia renounces its own economies and opens the door to its destruction. The collapse of businesses will cause and layoffs of workers, and unemployment is still a major problem in Serbia. I agree with the evaluations of the eaten experts, that it should not only defend the interests of the Serbian economy, but also defend the interests of Serbian consumers. I think that we need a free market, that we need healthy competition and that we need quality products on the market. However, the question arises which money will Serbian citizens buy the more quality goods? They are employees of Serbian businesses, and the development of businesses, as well as the growth of employee standards, will be threatened by the full liberalisation of the market at the moment. A few days ago, the director of Machine and Tractor Industry addressed the public, his name was Mr. Slobodan Petrovic, and he appealed to the government, and since the government sent us this bill and he is already in the Assembly, then this appeal was sent to us, MPs. So he appealed not to remove customs duties on imports of agricultural machinery, specifically agricultural tractors. Currently, customs on imports of tractors is 15%. This bill envisions taking the customs rate down to only 1%. What does Mr. Petrovic say? If customs duties are so reduced, the machinery industry and tractors are brought into a completely unequal position in relation to competition and businesses in the EU. This proposal allows imports of precisely those categories of tractors that are serially produced in IMT. The tractors for which a change in the tariff rate is foreseen are participating with 95% in the total production of everything the IMT produces. So they produce 95%, that's their production program, exactly those tractors to which customs are reduced to 1%. IMT has produced this category of tractors for 60 years and have produced over 800,000 agricultural tractors so far. Director Petrovic says that IMT has no power to deal with far stronger companies and their dumping prices, and that such customs policy will affect business and employment levels. Then, he appealed to the government, or urged the Assembly not to make the position of the metal complex in Serbia difficult anyway. I appeal to the government to withdraw this bill because, I repeat, of this law, that is, when the damage to the budget will be 150m euros. The lack or that hole in the budget will have to fill just about every citizen in Serbia. How? By increasing excise duties, by increasing administrative fees, etc. Again, we have no guarantee that we will be able to meet the 2009 budget. So, one hundred fifty million euros less, so when you decide to vote this bill, keep that in mind. I would ask a concrete question to Mr. Šijakovic -- how does he feel about the appeal of the company directors who belong to the metal complex in Serbia, and what does he think Serbia will be able to survive with the budget, where we know in the beginning that we lack 150m euros, and that if we adopt this bill? So Mr. Shijakovic can think and tell us all that this law actually needs to be withdrawn from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12275	Mr. Shormaz, you have four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12276	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I support the amendment of the Parliament of Donka Banovic and all that she has brought here. What a relationship to this law and what the government expects it to be, is that I must say, the Honorable Minister sent it, but I think that just because we in the DSS respect him, he was wrong to come here today and maybe he should take a break, ask someone else to come, otherwise he will experience a series of such questions as Mrs. Donka Banovic has now asked him. Because it turns out that the government sent a minister of religion under this law and other laws relating to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, to help us all here pray to God today and throughout 2009, not to experience a complete disaster with this government, as regards economics and economic policy. I would like to say for these two minutes that this is one, especially this first law, completely political law, absolutely harmful to the state of Serbia. We've just heard an example of IMT, we can freely say that the entire metal complex is threatened by this law, anyway because of the global economic crisis it's already on its knees. This law will completely touch the government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is the most absurd proposal we have received, that Serbia, which the European Union so respects, does not even want to start applying this clearly signed SAA, only to help certain political groups, primarily the DS to achieve a good result in these elections and nothing else, because they neither apply it nor intend to apply the SAA, nor a temporary trade agreement. In this way and this bill, Serbia is practically funding the EU and practically Serbia is helping the EU for nearly 300m euros, and it opens its market so freely, and Serbia's citizens will only have damage. What is the benefit of the 10% reduction of customs rates for imports of cars from the EU? If we take the low price of a car imported from there, 20,000 euros, that's a low price. Well, whoever has 18,000 euros to pay for it in Serbia also has 20,000 euros to pay for it. What is the benefit of Serbian citizens from this bill? No, it's just a big shame that budget users are gonna have a tight year. We see what's going on about the education that announces strikes, tolls, union negotiations are hard, hard, collective agreement and extended fact, about pensioners not talking, we'll talk, we don't need PUPS to hope that we won't talk about it in these seven points of the agenda. So, not to talk about it, from day to day, growing problems for Serbia, and by practically this bill as Serbia, we finance the EU, and we promised citizens EU access funds to develop businesses faster, more people hire and finally start a better life in Serbia. Contrary to that, all of this is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12277	Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I say anything about Mr. Dejan Mirovic's amendment and our DSS colleague, I have a need to ask you to inform your colleague from the ruling coalition, who has stated here that the presentation of religious credentials of Malta is rude and that it does not fit into some of the principles of civil society, in the provision of Article 43(3). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads as follows: "Everyone is free to express their faith or to convince religion, perform religious rituals, attend religious service or teaching, individually or in the community with others, as well as to make private or public religious beliefs." I realized that colleagues from New Serbia here publicly expressed their religious beliefs that they should not work on the day that Orthodox people celebrate the new year. If this country celebrates a new year on the Gregorian calendar, and just to remind you, Mr. Minister, Catholics celebrate the new year not only because of the new year as such, December 31st is a day dedicated to St. Sylvester, a Roman pope who died some 12-13 centuries ago, and the evening between December 31st and January 1st, you know that Mr. Minister well, it's called St. Sylvester's Evening. So if we who are involved in this modern world celebrate St. Sylvester, I realized that colleagues from the NS believe it would be regular and moral that if we were already celebrating St. Sylvester, we would also celebrate the Orthodox New Year, or St. Vasili. I really don't think this rage attack, which had an MP from G17 plus, is appropriate for the exposure of colleagues from the NS. First of all, it is not appropriate from the point of view of a civil culture to which it is called, and ultimately it is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which allows each citizen of the Republic of Serbia to publicly or privately express his religious beliefs. As for the amendment itself, I am taking the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to inform you of a rather tragic and sad fact. You're a minister of faith, and I really deeply appreciate and respect it. It's not Christian, Mr. Minister, it's not human, it's not moral, it's not in the spirit of our Serbian tradition what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing these days. Two days ago, I spoke to several workers in Belgrade's department store. These are women who almost daily strike at the Pioneer Park in front of the Serbian presidency, strike in winter, sleep under tents. Unfortunately, some of these women suffered severe lung inflammation. In the Serbian government, they say they do not want to receive them, say they have nothing to talk to them about, everything they had to say to them, they have also been told by these women in this winter, by this ice, by this kiamet they are fighting for their rights, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and people do not want to accept. Mr. Minister, first of all, I appeal to your Christian consciousness and conscience, here, on this very day, on the day of the Holy... (President: National MP, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. ) Mrs. Comic, I am talking about the amendment of my colleague from the DSS. Since I am the first SRS MP to talk about the amendment of MPs from the second parliamentary group, as far as I can count, I have the right to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12279	National MP Dejan Mirovic took advantage of the right, and the amendments were submitted in the same text by MPs Dejan Mirovic and MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12280	It doesn't matter what the same amendment is, it's two amendments submitted to the same member of the bill, and I'm using time to discuss the amendment of my colleagues from the second parliamentary club, and I think I have the right to speak for 15 minutes. (President: You have no right, but go ahead. ) Mrs. Comic, I have some sad fate, whenever I go out for a pay phone, someone pisses you off and then somehow you deny my parliamentary rights. I truly deeply appreciate and respect you. I've always expressed respect for the way you run the National Assembly session, and I'm doing it this time, and I'm really asking you to let me talk about the amendment. I'll say, I'll try as much as my humble mind allows me to speak with argument and try to convince the Minister, the Honorable Mr. Minister, that the amendment should be accepted. So, Mr. Minister, I urge first of all your Christian consciousness and conscience to ask your colleagues in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to accept these poor women who are fighting for their human rights, to talk to them and try to stop this sad picture that's happening these days that people have to strike, to sleep under tents at the beginning of the 21st century, in this winter, to fight for their basic human rights. People are just fighting for their existence and for nothing else. As far as the bill itself is concerned, it is clear, Mr. Minister, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to create a false picture of Serbia being about to enter the EU, that we have open arms in the EU, that these are our friends who cannot sleep at night because we are living hard and who are doing everything possible to make life easier for the citizens of Serbia. Since the ruling coalition has obviously forgotten some facts, I am obliged to remind them of these facts. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed by Bozidar Djelic at the end of April 2008 in the wake of an election campaign and the signing of the agreement was supposed to be the wind in the back of the DS ahead of the May 11th election. If I'm not mistaken, it was April 29, 2008. On the same day, the EU Council of Ministers made a decision to freeze the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement until it received firm assurances from chief UN prosecutor Serge Brammertz that Serbia has sufficiently co-operated with The Hague tribunal. The EU, Mr Minister, is made up of 27 Member States. Serbia signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with each of the 27 member states. Now a fundamental legal question is being raised here - when will the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Transitional Trade Agreement, which is the introduction into the SAA, come into force? The answer's pretty simple. It will take effect once it has been ratified by each of the 27 EU member states. When's that gonna be? To that question, Mr. Minister, neither you nor I can give a reliable answer. Why? Because, meanwhile, the EU is asking Serbia not only to co-operate with The Hague tribunal, it is asking for something else. What's that thing? That's something, Mr. Minister, Kosovo and Metohija. You every day from EU officials, from representatives of the most important EU member states, from representatives of various EU NGOs, who have a major impact on EU policy-making, can get statements that there is nothing from Serbia's involvement in the EU until it has established what they say is good neighbourly relations with neighbouring countries. It is well known, Mr. Minister, that you know that no country that is now a member of the EU could have become a member of that international organisation without having previously cleared up the interstate disputes it had with its neighbours. For the EU, Mr Minister, Kosovo and Metohija is the neighbouring state of Serbia. Consistent with their old practice that they do not want to receive new Member States that have not previously regulated the issue of borders with their neighbours, they are now applying that policy to the Republic of Serbia. You must know that. They ask the Republic of Serbia to establish good neighbourly relations with so-called The Republic of Kosovo. In other words, they ask the Republic of Serbia not only to de facto, but to admit that Kosovo and Metohija are independent states separate from Serbia. This is one of the most important reasons why the EU, or EU Member States, is delaying the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and not only the application, but even ratification itself. So you can apply the SAA a hundred times unilaterally, and the Transition Trade Agreement, no EU member states, so 27 of them, will begin the ratification process at all until these political conditions are met. It could be in about 10, 15, 20 or who knows how many years. What's the other condition? The second condition was mentioned several weeks ago, Mr. Minister, the man's name is Jelko Kacin, he is the European Parliament's rapporteur for Serbia, who said that giving consent to the Statute of the Vojvodina's test of democracy in Serbia and that Serbia should not count at all on EU accession if Vojvodina does not give an extremely broad autonomy according to some European standards. As you can see, the Hague condition, better said the Hague noose, is not the only problem this government has with the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. They are also Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina. Therefore, Mr. Minister, you as a serious man should advise your colleagues in the Serbian government not to sell fog to the people in Serbia. There is nothing since Serbia's soon and close entry into the EU. Even if the whole parliament of Serbia wants it, both left and right, even if 100% of Serbian citizens want to join the EU, it's not worth it, Mr. Minister, they don't want us. They do not want us at this time until they are resolved according to their wishes and their demands relations with Kosovo and Metohija, and until they make Vojvodina a federal unit, and then a completely independent state, according to the same scenario that took place in Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Macedonia, Montenegro, which unfortunately takes place these days, weeks and months in Kosovo and Metohija. So it's just enough to add up these political reasons, so you realize how much there is no basis in the story that Serbia will access European integration faster if it starts unilaterally applying the Transition Trade Agreement if, Mr. Minister, your partners from the EU don't want to do so. They will not begin the ratification process at all, and should be ratified by all 27 Member States in order for the agreement to enter into force first, and then start to apply. It will be in the very distant future. It turns out he was right to be a former German ambassador to Belgrade, Cobel, who said that Serbia could count on maybe entering the EU around 2025, but before that has to resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija and the issue of Vojvodina, and if we are too tight with Kosovo and Metohija, they can even ask the question of the Raska area and Vojvodina, as it says - these are areas that once did not belong to Serbia in the past, so it can be in the future, if we are too heroic and insist on our territorial integrity. What is the economic side of the unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement? The poverty of the state budget, I suppose, is clear to the laymen. I'm really no expert in economics, but I can add up what two and two are. Serbia's budget will be easier by at least 250m euros, because you either fully abolish or significantly reduce customs duties in trade relations with EU member states. The ultimate indignity, written in the light of the bill's proposal, is that the law will have absolutely no negative effects and that absolutely nothing terrible will happen in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In conditions where workers of the Belgrade departments have to get pneumonia in order to fight for their basic human rights, you reduce the state budget by 250m euros in these conditions, in order to be more Catholic than the Pope. Mr. Minister, at least you know that, no one can be more Catholic than the Pope, nor can we be more European than the EU itself. If something has taught us our tragic Serbian history, it is: we can survive, we can be strong, first of all, if we look at our interests, if we think with our own head and if we look at the world with our own eyes. Everything else is a national and state disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12281	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12282	After these two extremely good speeches by the MPs of the SRS, I am quite relieved to explain this amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. Of course, at the beginning, I think we have no rights, we people's MPs, to bypass and not to say from this pay phone our views regarding the political, economic and legal aspects of an operation called - the addition of the Customs Tariff Act. You'll see why this is important? For viewers who follow, to make it interesting for them, to perhaps understand better, we are in a situation today in the National Assembly as if a competition was called in the Republic of Serbia for the worst possible solution. Then the participants applied, offered some of their solutions, with wickedness, malice, ignorance, intricacies, etc., and out of pure peace ran one of these proposals, and he was the turbo best. So, in the competition, you get number one. Something worse couldn't get to us. For what? For reasons that this bill reduces funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. As direct as it comes from customs income, so is the indirect one. Anything else that could be the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget will be reduced as a result, above all, of this law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act. In the Budget Law, they also admitted that in 2009 we will have a realistic couple of customs-based revenues. This will be achieved if this law is passed on the amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. Not only is this law practically changing certain tariffs, some rates, but primarily because of the provisions of the first few members of this bill, where something that is an agreement is being promoted in one way. Whether it's a system of the most privileged nation, whether it's a free trade agreement, or whether it's a mirage agreement, known as Djelic's Mezmice-let's, come on, let's go. We will have this situation that, in addition to the reduction in customs revenue, this law will likely result in a slowdown in economic growth, a shut-down of some production, and some estimate that several tens of thousands of people will lose their perspective in their businesses. Because this law should allow our market, if I may say so, to be absolutely open to goods and influences from that part of the abroad that has shown great enmity to Serbia and the Serbian people for the past 17, 18 years. Let's remind ourselves of names such as Solana, that we are not going any further, the NATO pact member states that bombed us, countries that support the Kym-based Eulex mission, which aims to kidnap KIM from the constitutional and legal framework of the Republic of Serbia. There are 20 countries, perhaps more, 21, 22 from the EU that have recognised an independent KIM. And the question is, what else do we have to do to be masters of an illusion, and they don't hide, is that they offer us a European perspective and a European future, not today, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, not even a little tomorrow, not the day after that, but never again. The question arises - is this government, headed by Boris Tadic, authorized under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to cause damage to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia so directly? At the end of last year, I said that here we must have the entire government laid down and judge that government for this policy. This is not just about economic failures, this is about failures and intentional doing something bad, which will permanently cause damage to the Serbian people and the Republic of Serbia. Did you expect anything good from Solana? Everything Solana proposes is bad for our people. You have presented to us here that European values, European perspective politicians, are something from Europe that comes from Europe with respect to the EU, and they are minors below the level of some of our ministers, Djelic, Dinkic, not to order further. You know that nomenclature of first ministers who came here to promote our European values. These are not European values. What the EU is pushing to us would never apply to itself. Can you imagine one of the EU countries that supports the destruction of a neighbouring EU Member State? Forbidden, unimaginable. The question arises -- how long can this government, since 2001, fulfill what is sought and what is not sought because of a mirage, an illusion? It's your parole - life can't wait. But if life can't wait, let people live now. Don't do them any harm now, or, as they say, socially responsible, to be individuals with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to tighten the belt, because in 50, 70 or perhaps never, you will be better off. That's the policy. I cannot understand this policy because it is an open-ended policy to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, probably thanks to discussions of the Republic of Serbia's 2008 Budget Rebalancing Act, the 2009 Budget Law debate, and this debate today and this debate that will follow during the first half of 2009, will probably allow all citizens to understand that this is not a "hepi dej", let's go to elections, let's round up whoever has a better parliament - for European Serbia. What is behind this -- for European Serbia? Naked, recognizable, obvious damage. I'll get back to you later, but now I'm not going to talk about the rates, the nomenclature, the tariffs and the classification of those goods, there's time to talk about it, and that's in direct connection with the amendment I've submitted, and I have to say, by amendment, I'm asking for the deletion of Article 2, however, this concerns the amendment to Article 8 in the existing Article 3. Customs tariff law. So it wouldn't be very complicated for some to understand what it's about, I'll use something that's already been experienced. Both in 2001 and 2002, the SRS asked the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of some of the regulations passed by the first government of Zoran Djindjic. The basis for these Regulations was Article 2(2). The Government Act, which is a member who says - The Government is authorised to make - so a list of legal acts and general legal acts that the Government can take, is said - regulation, instruction, regulation, decisions, etc. This was the basis for the regulation to introduce a monopoly in the transport of oil derivatives, it has no direct link to this bill, but for those who follow this transfer to know what it is, now the Government is asking for the amendment of this Article 3rd Section 8 to give the Government the right to regulate by the regulation what is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Assembly. This is the concept of Article 2. The bill means that the government is disturbed by the National Assembly. I need to draw attention to a few more things, and now I'm going to do a little bit about these legal aspects of the indeterminate nature of an operation like this. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there are two members who regulate not only the international relations of the Republic of Serbia, but also the hierarchy of general legal acts in the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to some incorrect initiatives and the fact that it was necessary in 2006 to adopt a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we have received two members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that are completely unacceptable. They're not as contradictory as they are unacceptable. If these two members exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 16 and Article 194. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then these supplements are not necessary. Why? Under those provisions and this transitional agreement, which was ratified at the end of last September, it was the cause of the rocking in the National Assembly, then it is directly applied and there is no need to amend the Customs Tariff Act. But you suggested a supplement to the Customs Tariff Act. You consider that the transitional free trade agreement with the EU is not the legal act that could be applied directly, and if it is referred to in Article 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I wish you could interpret everything that way. This would mean that even the ratified agreements must be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is good, and that would mean that, regardless of what we have ratified, an international treaty, it would become a binding component of our internal legal order. Everything that's been taken over has to be incorporated into our regulations, our laws. This would also be the constitutional and legal most correct and legal-technical most acceptable. Why? This Customs Tariff Act applies a limited number of entities, applies customs duties, applies freighters and applies those engaged in external trade. In practice, it's an official messenger, a fat book, with a large number of nomenclatures, codes, descriptions and ultimately customs rates to be paid for importing certain goods. However, in all these foreign trade relations, in foreign policy relations, the most important principle is reciprocity. That is where the Government of the Republic of Serbia must not give up on that principle. Take it as an example, if there's a 20% car customs station in Belgium, it has to be with us, too, if the vehicles come from Belgium. Maybe I took a bad example, because Belgium doesn't have car manufacturers. Let it be France. You gave up on that principle. Why? Because they protect their market, the EU as a whole. They have their quotas. They have very strong funds, reserves, mostly agricultural-food products. Let the estimate say that up to five years they can handle existing reserves. Not to tell you about the estimates of individual states, how much they can budget, or how many citizens they can hold on to on the basis of their own capital and their savings. We can't compare with them. They spent almost 500, 600 years rocking the whole world like colonial forces, stealing it from all sides, and we're in a position to steal from ourselves alone. After I've overstepped, I'll report to the next SRS amendment to finish the story, because all these members are one whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12283	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, on Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, Verica Radeta and National MP Milica Vojić-Marković submitted a letter. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Zoran Krasic favours MP Milic Vojic-Markovic. Since the amendments are in the same text, it means that the applicants are equally equal, unless we speak to the alphabets. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12284	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I thank Mr. Krasic for this gentleman's gesture, he is not common in the Assembly, and that is why he should be pointed out. I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. This Article 3 reads as follows – Article 3a of position 2 is amended and reads as follows: ''Decision decisions taken by the Committee for the Harmonised System, if it is as a classification opinion, in accordance with Article 8(2). International Conventions on the Harmonised System of Names and Code Marks of Goods, confirmed by the World Customs Organisation, are mandatory for application." Like my colleagues at the DSS, I felt it was very important that we talk about this and that all these members, one by one, were practically deleted and abolished, because I believe that the application is so-called. unilateral application, although what I mean is a real absurdity, is very difficult for me to say such an absurd thing as a unilateral application of the agreement, very harmful for the citizens of Serbia and for the whole country of Serbia. Otherwise, I note that my fellow MPs who have spoken so far wondered why the minister of religion came to defend such a law, because it was simple to expect that Mrs. Finance Minister Dragutinovic would come. Given that she is in America, and since she is sacred to Vasilia today, she is to me as an Orthodox Christian and that it is clear why the Minister of Faith of St. Vasili came to the Assembly to defend this law, because I believe that only with great prayer can we adopt such a law today and bring something to the citizens of Serbia that is for good. So let me talk a little bit about this amendment. The consequences of the unargumented request by Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn, that Serbia begin unilaterally applying the provisions of the interim trade agreement and the SAA further, and the non-argumentation right now because of what it is seeking and believes such unilateral application will result in overcoming a stalemate in European integration. It is completely unargumented and fully consistent with what is absurd, unilateral application of the agreement. On the one hand, we have this incredible request from Olli Rehn, and on the other hand we have the desire of the Serbian and Serbian government to pay the EU in any way and at any cost, which, of course, will be paid by the citizens of Serbia, and the consequences of all this will be paid and will be borne by the citizens of Serbia. What does a unilateral application of the agreement mean anyway? The agreement involves a minimum of two parties who want to agree on certain conditions to do some work together. If one of the parties to the agreement breaks the agreement, we can't talk about the agreement. It's just that you can't deal with yourself and make a deal. That's what I'm talking about when I say or change my name, it can't be a unilateral application of the agreement, it simply insults the common sense of the Serbian citizens. Is there one single country that had to apply so-called on its way to the EU? unilateral application of the agreement? Of course it doesn't exist. Why does Serbia have to swallow such a thing? I'll try a few sentences to explain why I think Serbia is doing this. What are customs duties for one country? First of all, to protect the domestic product. Here's an example, when Serbia, or Yugoslavia, then took off customs duties on textiles and textile goods entering the country, the textile economy in Yugoslavia received the first big knockout, after which it never recovered. You know I'm talking about Chinese textiles and textiles from some other countries that have completely changed the image of our economy. With this move, I will again say that I am really threatening to say, by unilaterally applying the agreement, Serbia will remove customs duties on a large number of products entering Serbia and thus deprive one good part of the funds that would fill Serbia's budget. On the other hand, those products produced by Serbia, which it wants to export to the EU, will not be removed from customs duties. Automatic products coming from Serbia will be more expensive there, as customs for products coming from Serbia will be paid there. Of course, this is very conditional, because I simply cannot understand that under this government and this way of thinking, what this government has and what actions it leads Serbia to ruin, will be any product that can be exported to the EU. I would like to remind you that before the New Year, at the time of the adoption of the budget, I spoke on several occasions about what the Serbian Government, which was then before us, and which is now fully in use, did to the veterinary service, how it led and how it would lead in 2009 to the fact that no piece of meat could come from Serbia to the EU, because it would not have certificates and declarations that could only provide veterinary services. I will remind you that out of the 816 million the Serbian government predicted for the service's budget this year, 700 already owes. The service will practically not be able to carry out any of its jobs, after which any product, meat, milk or product that can be exported to the EU and as far as agriculture is concerned, will have a certificate with which it can exit. So it's simple that it can't be simpler. On the other hand, what else could happen, and of course it will, there will be a trade deficit. I'll remind you of 2001. We've already had it. In 2001, our government led to a really hasty and unreasonable liberalisation of the market, and we then came into a situation where our import lobby was ten times or hundreds of times strengthened without Serbian citizens having anything to do with it. When Mr Djelic told us here that we should immediately begin with the unilateral application of the SAA, the public of Serbia and the opposition MPs felt that it was another one of the empty stories and another of Mr Djelic's empty promises, which made everything and everything impossible, and none of it came true, and that simply that empty story has arguments regarding the unpreparedness of Serbia's economy, which concerns the unpreparedness of Serbia's administration, which concerns the budget that is now in place, the 2009 budget, but which is actually very unrealisticly planned, which hangs in the air and its realisation is absolutely impossible, because it actually has no funds. At this moment, the budget lies ahead of another enigmous, in front of another rebus that will be very difficult to figure out, because at this point we know that, in December, the agreement with the IMF, the 500m-euro stand-by arrangement, was not signed. The International Monetary Fund has been fenced to analyse our budget and to reach the agreement in mid-January. At the moment, Minister Dragutinovice in America met with the IMF. And what is interesting, when this agreement and when that arrangement was made here in Serbia, the active participant of the talks was Governor, Mr Jelasic. At this point, the Minister was released alone in America, Mr Jelasic retreated for some reason, we don't know why he retired, unless one of the reasons he didn't, he just doesn't want to embarrass himself. The DSS MPs were really a large number of amendments, and in the plenary session, when we talked about the budget, talking about the budget being completely unrealistic, that it was poorly designed, and now all these things are slowly being seen. The gross social product is likely to be less than projected, than the 3% and will probably be only 3%. The drop in exports will not be 5.4%, but will be 10%, and inflation is already on track and you see now the prices of products that are of 1. January picked up today. So I have to mention meat, in all the media it was that meat will be cheap, that there are all the reasons that this meat is cheap, the citizens of Serbia were really hoping for it. What we get as an effect is that meat will collect from 5% to 10%, and that some slaughterhouses have already collected their products, and some from February 2nd. So, only because of a smaller inflow of tax on imports of goods, the budget's revenues will be lower by 18.5 billion dinars. What happens then? The IMF is obviously stalling to sign an agreement with us as it was projected in December. They will either seek budget rebalance, make the budget much more restrictive, or simply demand that the agreement be revised, that the agreement be revised. Then what happens if it's all respected? What was happening in the 1990s, because, my lords, exactly what the citizens of Serbia were saying to each other, so Gods and economists talked to each other, they expected the DS to reform the SPS. It happened the other way around. It happened that the SPS reformed the DS and introduced them into another spiral they have known extremely well since the 1990s, in the spiral of inflation, unreal promises and various stories, which only Serbian citizens can assume. The irresponsible government has brought Serbia, within six months as far as it is in power, the seventh month, indeed on its knees and on the brink of collapse. You can't expect those who did it to do it now to solve the problem they obviously did for the good part themselves. Economists say, therefore, I really can't speak for myself, because I'm a pedagogogist and I'm just reading the expert press, economists say that what we have now is not the consequence of the global economic crisis but of our incompetence. So, the global economic crisis will only be felt in Serbia, and with those who say they have fully prepared measures, I remind you that Mr Cvetkovic said, which will prevent the global economic crisis, two days after Minister Dinkic says - we have not yet looked at and analyzed the situation in the economy and we will only bring measures. It's either they don't talk to each other here or they're trying to trick us by talking to each other for a second. It's a scam in that sense that they're doing something, they know something concrete and they're doing it. Everything I have just said and what the DSS MPs will say goes on to say is on one: indeed this law should not be adopted. This law should not be passed. Serbia with a signed SAA won't get anything, it'll just lose. Since I'm here, I still have a minute to say one thing. I know Mr. Šijakovic from the time he was a federal minister of religion and I respect what he's doing, which is why I would expect, in fact I've already expected, and since I haven't experienced him, I want to provoke him to come out here and comment, I have to read "the weird fiction that the New Year starts on January 13th at midnight". I can understand a gentleman who is not an Orthodox Christian. I totally understand him, he doesn't have to be, but I don't let him call me weird because I have weird fiction. No, I don't have any weird fiction, sir. I'm just an Orthodox Serb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12285	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, so the MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12286	I'll continue where I left off, since the amendments to Articles 2 and 3 still make up one whole. What's this about? In Article 2, one correction is made which is inserted in the second sentence of Article 8 - ''the concluded free trade agreement', which refers to the power granted by the Government to that Article 3rd position 8 in November each year to bring the customs tariff nomenclature in line with the combined EU nomenclature. Article 3. It regulates something similar, but it's a harmonised system, and it fits the World Customs Organization. It also has its own nomenclature, except that this nomenclature is called a harmonized system, and it also harmonizes occasionally and the decisions of their special committee are binding on us because we are long ago signatories and members of that World Customs Organisation. As far as the previous amendment is concerned, I believe that Section 8, where it is authorised the Government to adopt a regulation in November and bring the tariff nomenclature into line, it should only be interpreted as the legal and technical authority of the Government to be able to make appropriate adjustments, because, from time to time, due to the emergence of certain new products, there is a problem in putting them in the existing nomenclature, how to set out the code for them, which group to belong to as a product. Therefore, there is a need for that nomenclature to be upgraded or there is a need, in the case of a new like product, to give an appropriate definition, where this new product would be classified in the existing nomenclature. But if that regulation, which is in the position of 8, the Government has the authority to regulate, in addition to harmonising the nomenclature, everything we can call a tariff position, and you wrote it, for the sake of the public just to say, the tariff position covers a tariff code with 10 digits, the designation of a tariff code, a unit of measure and rate – please, if the Government would get the authority to determine the rate, then the National Assembly is not required. Then you took on much greater authority, to regulate certain things that go beyond the possibilities provided by one regulation. As a sublegal act, the regulation empowers the Government to regulate something within the frameworks prescribed by law. You can't regulation to go outside the law. If you can insert a new tariff number, a new tariff code, a new code, a unit of measures and set the rate or set the amount of customs duty, then you have devalued all of this, which is below the Customs Tariff Act, and these are these numbers and all of these classifications per head. If all the classifications and all the heads are part of the Customs Tariff Act, then only the National Assembly can intervene in those provisions and in customs tariffs. If you get that option by regulation, then you don't need the National Assembly. Or, to be honest, you only needed it once - to pass this law and to be a member of Section 8 of Article 3 that gives unlimited powers that even go into what is a legislative jurisdiction. I hope you understand. You didn't understand me? You don't need to understand me. You can make a regulation to give some interpretations of new nomenclatures, but you cannot prescribe a rate, because you have forgotten what is referred to in Article 3 as a definition of a tariff number. You even said: to cover the rate, i.e. the amount of customs duties established by this law. In the current text you already have that. They're over-authorizations. With this new amendment, that you can also do so with a concluded free trade agreement, and that you give up the principles set out in Article 2, take point 4 and point 5 of the existing law, you see, everything is based on the principle of reciprocity: tantrums for corn. You're counting on us for this product 10%, we're counting on you for that product same 10%. If we don't have a clause of the most privileged nation, you see the last attitude -- up to 70% may increase customs. It's a reflection of state policy, this is no discrimination, these are standard provisions that apply to all states. The EU has its specific regulation, given that it is and is a single customs area, maltene is all domestic traffic in them, and when goods are coming outside the EU, it gets a regime and goes to this harmonised classification. In Article 3. The bill, I also criticise the existing solution, however, I agree with the proposal, since we are as a member of the World Customs Organisation, then it obliges us. It obliges us to make appropriate amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. It's about this legal aspect. As bad as this is a bill of law, here's just a few details. Yesterday you had a chance to hear the EU celebrate 10 years of the euro becoming a coin. As far as I know, there are 27 EU Member States there. It's only 16 in the euro zone. The pound is still a means of payment in the UK. Not in Ireland, though. How is it possible that one of the EU members or founders of the European community and the euro is not a means of payment? Or, to take another dilemma, you have Montenegro, which is not an EU member, which does not even fall under the euro zone, but has turned the euro's commercial arrangements into its currency. Look what's going on. Let's move on. I'm sorry, did you hear that the German government decided yesterday with a large amount of money, probably from the budget, probably some responsibility, to save its economy, especially the car? Do you know what they said as a definition? Whoever gets his car back from the Germans, which is not over nine years old, gets some discount, 2,500 euros or some discount. Do you know where your cars will end? At our place. These used nine-year-olds have ended up with us, like 10, 15 years old, ending all the shrimp cars with us, and they were like new Mercedeses. Come on, people, do something good for this people and this country. You're simply running a competition when the worse solution will be proposed and the more tragic consequences will be on our economy. That's what we're criticizing. Next, to whom does a bill like this suit? Just the importers. Which one? Those who are monopolies for certain customs tariff goods. How many of them are importing cars? You know, I don't want to talk to you. They'll win. Did you see, two or three months ago, a billboard commercial: for our car you get a discount - customs. They, as great sellers and dealers of foreign cars, gave up customs, from which the state has not yet given up its thinking, and you have given up only when this bill came here. How do they know better what policy will be in 2009 than Mirko Cvetkovic? Are not car dealers the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia? How is that possible? Who's gonna get that benefit? The next thing you know is the very important thing, you see what the processes are like -- we need to have savings, and Rasim Ljajic says there's a message going on. Where? Court buildings and police stations. What notice? We're looking for two. Whoever rats out the first one on the phone gets a million euros and the state pays all the dues. What money? What tax payer has authorized the government of the Republic of Serbia to finance the "sinkaros"? Nor excludes the possibility, we have not yet received an answer to the question of who took the money for Radovan Karadzic. It is possible that some driver who had no children invited Dabic to treat his wife with sterileness, so he handed him over, so he betrayed him, so they ambushed him, so they took him, so someone split 5m euros, and then he swung in Serbia, and he beats himself in the lungs. Please, we need an answer - do you have the authority to finance it with taxpayers' funds and is that a state interest? How do you feel about state interest? You said: General savings, belts tightening, this is it, that's it. Why are you guys wasting your time here? Let me remind you, in 2002 there was something similar, then that Lutra was the interior minister, so he made a public call and promised a reward for providing him with information on unsolved murders. Of course, people came forward, there was a man who was able to use his information to make quite a contribution to the lighting of these cases. The case is still in progress, you know. Citizens, when the state publicly invites you to snitch, it's no use. How do you waste your money? How is there money for that? Explain that to me. We haven't got an answer yet to the question of who took five million. First, did someone take, if taken, who took the fivem euros for what was done with Radovan Karadzic? I can tell you now, I am using the opportunity, count as turning 9191, reporting Boris Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic to have Ratko Mladic and that they know exactly where Ratko Mladic and Goran Hadzic are. There, I call on State Prosecutor Vukcevic, and Ljajic is the biggest prosecutor in our country, let Boris Tadic check it out, because he was also the defence minister, so he was the president of the state in one session, so he's the president of the state again. He has the National Security Service, there's that all-powerful Mike Rakic there, so there's this Vukadinovic, he's got Bruce shaking today, even though he's long gone. Here, you can find it. Don't be like that -- big state business flag, Fiat, etc., and then we hear that some agency already took the money because it found a strategic partner. I'm not saying, says the union president, and two nights ago, he said on some show, Citadel, I don't know his name. Solve people's questions. Don't keep your mouth shut about those questions. Importers get, and I can only conclude how much the importers have paid and according to the amount of emotion this bill has been announced with, I get the impression that someone's getting dirty, I get the impression, I don't claim. I'm getting the impression that someone's got their hands on it, and they've gone through it, and now they've sent the Minister of Faith here, which is what the poor man, as a member of the government, has to be present here, only that our holy spirit falls, so that he can save us from what's coming because of this government. This is not the first time you have passed legislative powers by regulations. Since 2001, it's a manners. The National Assembly is intruding with the government. Why? Because in any parliamentary debate on the bill or in the exercise of the functions of the government's work control, the truth would come out. You have to answer. You have to give answers, you have to prove what you're answering, something to prove that maybe it's not what I'm saying. You see, that's a story that all MPs repeat, regardless of from which MP groups when they come and deal with the problem of this customs tariff law. So you must have won first place in a public competition for the worst possible solution to one of the problems that harms the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because here there is only the interest of some people in the EU and there is no protection of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No government can destroy the state. Mitteran said in his own time -- at which limits I took France, I am obliged at the end of my term to return it. You can't say that about this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12287	People's MP, the time at your representative's disposal has been used. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, since you belong to a Western government, a Western political tradition, I do not understand how you could allow or participate in the creation of such a bill, which includes, among other things, Article 2. In an explanation of the basic legal institutes, it is literally like this, and this is what counterpart Zoran Krasic was talking about, and I will try to say something else on the subject. It is said that Article 2 is complemented by Article 3. In addition to the rate of duty laid down in the Customs Tariff Act, the provisions relating to the extension of the power to the Government to cover, in addition to the rate of duty laid down in the Customs Tariff Act, the rates of customs duties to be applied in accordance with the free trade agreements. Mr. Zoran Krasic well noted that, above all, such a provision is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it interferes with the government's competences with the responsibilities of the National Assembly. So it's only the National Assembly that can determine customs rates in law form. It's from a purely legal point of view. From a political point of view, or from the aspect of some political tradition, Mr. Minister, this government is in one of the next problems. One reason, Mr. Minister, why the American war for independence broke out in the late 18th century is the fact that American colonies, those 13 American colonies, were not represented in the English, or British parliament. The British Parliament also prescribed taxes for these colonies that were not represented in the British parliament. Then these famous fathers and founders of the United States of Hamilton, Jefferson and Jay, the authors of those famous federalist writings, came up with a classic political principle that applies in modern democracies, which is that there is no taxation without political representation. In other words, that public taxes can only be determined by a representative body and that citizens are obliged to pay public taxes only if those public taxes are established by a representative body, or parliament in which citizens have their representatives. Since these 13 American colonies were not represented in the British Parliament, and they were obliged to pay British taxes, Americans rose to arms under George Washington's command, freed themselves from the British crown and became an independent state, today a superpower. This principle that there is no taxation, i.e. the introduction of public taxes, which is not done by parliament, is the foundation of modern democracy, from the US through EU countries, to countries that have recently become relatively democratic, such as Japan after World War II. You are now changing the entire system of Western democracy. What they knew from George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, to this day, to modern democratic theorists, you are now throwing everything under our feet, what Parliament will do, we have a government, which by its regulation can determine the rates, among other things, and customs. Taxes, customs, taxes, taxes, all public taxes. Everywhere in the democratic world, if you are truly committed to the Western democracy you are calling upon, everywhere in that Western democratic world of public tax is determined exclusively by the representative body. There is no government of Serbia and there is no government of any country in the world to look for. You are now turning the democracy system upside down, giving the Serbian government the right to establish customs rates by its regulation. Customs is as public income as tax, and tomorrow you will allow the Government to introduce taxes with its own regulation, to determine the level of tax rates. What happens then to parliament in this country if it continues with such practice. Mr. Minister, I have the impression, I may be mistaken, you correct me if I'm wrong, that Article 3. The proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act represents the classical village of Podekin. Here's what I mean. You are passing this law in order to unilaterally implement the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU, if it is possible to apply unilaterally, and if that is at all logical from the point of view of Serbian language and etymology. It makes sense to you. Therefore, the basic essence of this law is to enable a unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement, namely that it is now either fully abolished or significantly reduced customs duties in trade relations with EU Member States, although it does not occur to the EU that it unilaterally applies this transitional trade agreement on its part, but will wait until the last of the 27 EU Member States has ratified the Transition Trade Agreement and the SAA. Why is this Podokin's village? For this very reason I have stated, you are passing this law for one single reason, to enable a unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement. On page 5 of the acts delivered by the Government, which is the draft law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, Chapter 3, Explanation of basic legal institutes and individual solutions, and then Chapter 4, financial means for law enforcement, then Chapter 5, see what it says - adoption of the law, watch out for the degree of cynicism and the degree of humiliation of the MPs to whom you delivered these to the citizens themselves, says, the adoption of the law will not significantly affect the level of income of the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of customs burdens. Mr. Minister, we are still one poor country, economically underdeveloped. What makes Serbian government the right to say that it will not be in Serbia's 250m-euro budget based on customs is not a significant blow to the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Amazingly, people strike you days in front of the presidency here across the street from the National Assembly, strike in front of the government, threaten the general strike in all of Serbia, people get pneumonia, women get pneumonia because they fight for their basic human rights, for bread, to work. They don't ask them to buy expensive cars at significantly lower customs rates, they don't ask them to buy luxury apartments, they don't ask them to fly to the Bahamas, Haiti and Cuba, no, people ask them to work, to feed their family. People got pneumonia, some of those women ended up in the hospital. You won't see them in the government of the Republic of Serbia, you're bored, you've got a lot of work to do. You were sent here to listen to the explanations of the MPs on the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, Minister of Faith? First of all, you're humiliated, because you don't understand much about this matter, you understand something else, you're an expert on other issues, but in customs tariff issues you probably don't understand how much you don't know. In addition, the Serbian government has had the courage to say that Serbia's 250m dinar budget is not a significant blow to income from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why do I say he's a member of the 3rd? Podkin's village? Well, here's what it says in Article 3, that is, in the explanation of Article 3 that the Government has delivered to us. Article 3a of the Customs Tariff Act is complemented in order to bring the term into line with the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Name and Codes of Goods. Mr. Minister, now you see what a fraud is, or humiliation of the National Assembly. See Article 3. It's a bill of law. It says this, in Article 3a of Section 2, it is amended and reads: "Decision decisions made by the Committee for the Harmonised System, which, as a classification opinion in accordance with Article 8(2) of the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Names and Code Marks of Goods (now look, Mr. Minister, what it says in brackets, says - Official Journal of the SFRY International Contracts No. 6/87, that was the year when the University of Zagreb was held, if you remember, 14/91, and the Official Journal of the SRJ, number 2/97) confirmed by the World Customs Organisation, are mandatory to apply. Mr. Minister, we ratified that harmonized system back in 1987. We have since 1987, our country, when it establish trade relations with other countries, applied this harmonized system, applied its terminology. So what's the problem here? Why did you need this Article 3? Not for the reasons you stated in the explanation, the explanation was given to order, but to blur the eyes, if possible, to the MPs and citizens. Because basically this Article 3 is completely unnecessary. You are passing this law for one single reason, in order to allow for a unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement. But if Vlassi hadn't thought of it and that your bill wouldn't have only one member, then let's do the order to write a few more members, so you figured you'd also write this article 3. Imagine, only in 2009 will the Republic of Serbia, when establishing trade relations with other countries, apply in a termological sense a harmonised system, as it has not done so yet, and we ratified this harmonized system since 1987. How have we established trade relations with other countries so far, if, in a termological sense, we have not complied with our regulations with the regulations of other countries, that is, this international convention? Who wanted to trade with us anyway? Who wanted to pay us a single euro, a dollar, a stamp or any other currency in the name of a trade exchange with the Republic of Serbia, if only now, in 2009, should we apply something we ratified in 1987? Mr. Minister, it is clear that your colleagues in the government of Serbia, who did not have the courage to come to the National Assembly today, not because they are celebrating or something, but simply people do not want to be here to avoid the criticism of the MPs, have sent you, who are a decent gentleman, a learned man, an intellectual, but simply not your matter. You cannot adequately answer the MPs who speak of this matter, not because you are not taught, not because you are not intelligent, far from it, I greatly appreciate and respect you, but simply this is not a matter in which you are expert. You were sent here to sit in order, to say that the Serbian government has some authorised representative, but you are only authorized to sit here and listen, you do not have enough professional competence to discuss with the MPs. It is in fact a proof of how much the Serbian government not only does not respect the National Assembly, it is long known to us, but as much as it does not respect you, Mr. Minister, because if it respects you, it would send someone who is truly in charge of this matter, if it is not already Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, we hear that he is abroad somewhere, so I guess he is in the country of Mladjan Dinkic. Shouldn't that man come to the National Assembly? He only leads politics through newspapers, only in newspapers can we hear what Mladjan Dinkic thinks of this or that problem. Let a man come into the people's congregation, and he shall gather three clean ones, and he shall look into the eyes of the messengers of the people, and shall say the true meaning of this law. What they sent you is really a fundamental disrespect for your personality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12289	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop - Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. I'd take the chance to let you know that we'll be working after 6:00 today, but not long, until 7:30. I think we'll be done a few minutes early, there's more to it, but we'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Gordana Pop-Lazic has tabled an amendment to Article 4. The bill and what is interesting, which I will take into account in this discussion, is an explanation that the Government has given for refusing to accept this amendment, and it says: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that changes in customs duty rates are proposed in line with the country's economic policy and needs and level of development of domestic economy". Mr. Minister, you are a representative of the Government here, you represent an executive body in this country that should bring and implement the country's economic policy, and I believe that, and I believe, a large majority of MPs, at least on the right, if not on both sides, that this country has everything but no economic policy or we are not able to understand enough what is going on today in economic terms in this country, and it is economic policy. Before I move on to this story of customs, I would only read a few sentences, with one piece of paper that, in principle, also represents the country's economic policy, as a member of the Privatisation Committee, I got it a little while ago. Otherwise, these are some information for meeting the MPs, there are seven points and look at all these points. I will not read the first one, at least important, here is the second: the request of the Association of Minority Shareholders AD "Vulkan" from Nis for reviewing the privatisation process; then the request of the Committee President and the Trustees of the EI "Standard" to Nis for the urgent review of the control of bankruptcy proceedings against this company; the request of the Independent Union of Employees in Graphic Affairs, Information Action and Kinmatography of Serbia for the delivery of detailed data on the implementation and control of the privatisation of enterprises in these areas; the request of the Director of the AMG DOO from Belgrade, for assistance to him, as an interested buyer, for the purchase of ŠIK Kučevo and ŠIK "Kopalnik" from Kursumlia; the request of the President of the Association of Small Shareholders from Novi Sad to assist with the registration of actions of small shareholders and the President of the Association of citizens of Stockers and trusting Belgrade's in the construction of the construction of Belgrade. Mr. Martinovic spoke about the case earlier. There is certainly no mention of it, and it is very important to mention the problems of privatising "Sintellona" from Backa Palanka, "Trubnika", "Kostane" and "Jumka" from southern Serbia, from which I come. Mr. Minister, I believe you don't have a lot of touch points in this area, but this is the economic policy of this country, or what you call the economic policy of this country. This country, when it comes to the economy, is driven solely by a verse and by an incredibly unacceptable neoliberal concept. Now that we're talking about tariffs, they're definitely related to imports, this law, and all the other laws that are in the set of laws that are supposed to support the Republic of Serbia's budget, should in principle be defined not as a consequence of the fact that you have accepted that you unilaterally apply the Stabilisation Agreement, but that all these laws together with the budget should be a prevention, that they act preventively on everything that is going to happen economically, and that is bad, happening in 2009 and in our country, and certainly throughout the world. Unfortunately, you are calling for economic policy, and because of all of this that is in these papers and these documents, it can be realized that this country definitely does not possess, nor has a strategy, nor does it have, to say the kind of ideas that will respond to all the economic challenges that we will meet in 2009. Of course, when we talk about customs, we are talking about imports and what is also an expression of the country's economic policy, it is that in the last few years we have a constant growth in the external trade deficit, or we have an increase in imports, a reduction in exports. It is also one of the best indicators of economic opportunities and economic policy of this country, and instead of being aware of these facts, since you define this in statistical institutions through various statistical data, instead of responding protectively to this in relation to our economy, domestic production, you have certainly re-determined yourself for the concept of neoliberalisation. There's one question -- nowhere public about such an open and hard concept of freedom and liberalisation of imports you're not talking about. You, even in your programme, or national integration programme, have defined one of the broad books in which you have defined that this country should go to the European Union in this or until 2012, that through various areas of the sector it should be government and behaviour, you have not mentioned anywhere that you will accept unilateral implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You are neither here nor here, and you have defined yourself so quietly and yet have managed to convince at least part of the public in Serbia that you have taken one big step. You have even dared to add this to this customs rate amendment and supplementation law - in order to allow for a unilateral application of the Transitional Agreement on our part, it is necessary to supplement the Customs Tariff Act, bearing in mind that this law establishes the rate of customs duty applicable to imports of goods. It's as if someone asked you to, as if you were obliged to accept this agreement and apply it the way you plan to apply it. As far as imports into this country are concerned, the best response to imports would be exports and I think that in the coming year and all years ahead of the countries should be the most serious one to deal with and to develop and not to reduce tax rates, but to deal with how our export and export branches would strengthen in the coming period. What you should definitely be told is the fact that today's biggest export jobs work with countries belonging to the CEFTA agreement, and what relations with them are best told by the example of Croatia, where you said, Ms. Dragutinovic said that she did not want to apply the principle of reciprocity when imports, again of excise goods to which we will talk, tobacco, and certainly that we are absolutely subordinated and to the harm of the domestic national economy. Not only did we question the production of tobacco, which was on some level last year, but in the following year we will have a decline in tobacco production, on the one hand, and on the other hand, even some tobacco producers in Serbia are being placed in the function of Croatian tobacco producers. Why? Because they can take out whatever they want and whatever they want in Serbia. What should also be said is that this country has a weak range in the context of its economic policy. As far as products are concerned, we export only semi-products, import all final or finished products, and it is certainly not something that this country in economic terms can or should be commended for. When it comes to the import and export of this country, there is one very interesting data that certainly serves us with one pride, that is the fact that this country has achieved an external trade deficit with Africa over the past year. The participation of the foreign trade deficit with Africa is 1,9 or 2% in the overall deficit of our country, but it is certainly a disgrace and shame, since our experience with Africa, at least in the past, has been such that our economic operators have made very large or decent profits and that this country has lived very well in business relations and co-operation with African countries. What should basically be the function of you leading economic policy or at least calling on you to lead it? What you should certainly do is use all your domestic resources, i.e. institutional capacities to increase the range of goods that we can take out, to make the best and quality promotion of our production out there. But when the question arises what the institutions are doing that should be dealt with, I objectively believe that none of you have an answer. What is the function of our Chamber of Commerce? Do you know about the Serbian Chamber of Commerce when it's heard? It can only be heard when the president is to be elected and when it takes two political parties or concepts within the Chamber of Commerce to conflict. But this struggle in the Chamber of Commerce is not based on ideological passing or passing in the economic concept, but on who will manage a larger business space at the essential locations that the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has and which it owns. Can you boast of the work he does and performs Siep? Imagine the insolence of the director of Siepa, he says, thanks to this government of the Republic of Serbia, political instability has been removed that will certainly eliminate economic instability, thereby improving the investment climate in Serbia. Then a representative of the government appears on television or in means of public information and says - the investment climate in Serbia is very bad, unfavourable and we have to count on it. In the following year, you are also counting on a cut in privatisation revenues, as everything that can be sold is almost sold. I repeat, the state does not have a strategy and concept of privatization of public enterprises, and all this will be very badly reflected on the economic opportunities and possibilities of this country to meet the negative consequences that will be reflected, above all, on our opportunities inside, and then, of course, on the consequences that are inspired by the non-domestic, irresponsible and very bad concept of economic policy that you are leading and which you have no intention, and through these laws it is clearly seen and recognised, neither in the short term nor in the medium term, nor in the rich or long term to change. So I think it was rational not only to accept this amendment, to withdraw a whole set of these laws, to review them, to open a serious and political public debate before their definition and adoption, or to send them to the Assembly. I'm so sure it's black for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12291	Anybody else answer for a word? Mr. Mašić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12292	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and Associates of the Ministry of Finance... (President: I would ask you to allow Mr. Mašić to be heard and spoken. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, first of all, I came out to express my gratitude to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, and also to the chairman of the Finance Committee and to all the members of the Finance Committee, that, on the basis of my debate in the context of the principle debate on this bill, I noticed one technical error, one technical failure, first of all, but essential and essential, as regards customs tariffs for imports of chickens, etc. Parent flocks, and also customs tariffs that applied to chickens...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12293	Mr. Masicu, I'm sorry, you're talking about an amendment I haven't read yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12294	I'm counting on us to discuss the amendment to Article 4, and it's within Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12295	Who put up with the Finance Committee, are you talking about this amendment? We are still on the amendment to Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, and you are talking about the amendment submitted by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12296	I'm talking about an amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12297	It's okay. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12298	Madam Chairman, the amendment adopted by the Ministry of Finance is only now being divided. I do not see the need to intervene, because we are discussing Article 4, and the amendment that the Finance Committee has considered in fact and adopted refers to Article 4, so I do not know why you need to defocus me and my good intentions and gratitude in front of the SNS parliamentary group, because we wanted to express our gratitude to the government and to you as a ruling coalition that you have appreciated our observation. I'll go on anyway. I thank you once again to all those I mentioned, and I hope in the day of voting that these changes, which have been established on the Finance Committee, will, in fact, be accepted and essentially, change the tariffs applicable to livestock production, where the tariff for chickens, etc. grandfather and parent flocks, which are not normally grown in our country, but only imported, are reduced to 1%. One tariff consisted of a customs duty of 20%, now it returns to 1%, because, underlining, it's an import repromation and that production is expensive, so we don't have our own parent procedures, but we're importing already hatched chickens, so on. Parent flocks, and then we use them here to reproduce. On the other hand, again in order to fill the budget, customs burden has been carried out and therefore reduced competition for our chicken producers that we produce in our country is so called. Chickens that when they grow up wear eggs for a consumption and, on the other hand, broiler chickens, which we normally use in our diet, which we also grow here. They are now essentially painted with this change and thus in a way protected our production, and above all manufacturers, i.e. parent flock breeders. In order not to take too much time, I would once again like to thank the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Finance Committee, and I ask you from the ruling coalition to vote in the voting day as the Finance Committee has proposed. During this speech the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12299	It shall be subject to Article 4 of the amendment, in accordance with Article 140(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Financial Board. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic and joint MPs Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is for Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Mr Minister, I really don't know how we're going to communicate now, given that the government has not accepted this amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, because with a lot of material, I could possibly discuss some six questions with you. They were driven by Mr. Zivica Tucic, one of the greatest acquaintances of opportunities in our church and religious issues in general, about the country's relationship with Mr. Honorable colleague Sladjan Myajević, not to be found neglected, but since now is not the time, and I would be very interested in talking about it, perhaps through some amendment and addition of the Law on Church and Religious Communities, because in practice it has proved to be a lot of problems in the past four years, especially when interpreting and applying Article 3 of the Law. Perhaps you come out now, taught by experience, may be an incentive to you and this great holiday today, and I want to congratulate everyone who celebrates St. Vasili the Great, to meet you in front of the Assembly as a resolute minister, but not in this role as Secretary of State, today on January 14th, when we are discussing a law that will really mean the essence of life, one of the components of how Serbian citizens will live. I read today, remembered and looked at some press-clipping since 19 November and asked MPs of the position and opposition, and not because the SRS MP, but Master Dejan Mirovic then made it clear to reporters, which turned out later, and these days in some columns it is written by some known Serbian economists, that it would be a major blow, to adopt this law on unilateral application of the trade agreement to the Serbian economy, especially agriculture. He then gave the projection to Mr Mirovic that this would mean about 400m euros less in the state register, a thousand products without customs, and this is the biggest blow to what we live on and on which the rural area of Serbia lives. If we have in mind, and your data is correct, that almost half, but let's say for sure one third of the population is relying on agricultural production and lives on it. As it all began, and as Serbia found itself in a situation to come up with such a bill at all, Serbia's citizens will think it was that call -- let's go, we're going to Europe, Bozidar Djelic from this pay phone. No, these are directives that came directly from the EU Council of Ministers, from officials, from Olli Rehn, Javier Solana and all those who had been in the process until the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and our dispute turned out to be right, and we Serbian radicals, and colleagues from the DSS and NS, Article 135. Agreement. We are in a position for the government to decide, without consulting with us, the people's representatives, to start before its, or your European mentors, who blackmail and condition us, with the view that Serbia will start unilaterally applying the trade agreement from 1 January 2009. The essence of my amendment, which I have proposed on behalf of the parliamentary group, is to delete that Article 5, because as well as my colleague Martinovic has noticed, all of this is pointless, repeating something that already exists. It's especially funny, Article 3, because whoever ever took a customs tariff in their hands didn't have to work in the area of foreign trade, but before that, anyone who worked on it, it's one job, for anyone who did it, and I have a few years of experience in these businesses, had to remember to know the customs tariff that was harmonised and, if you do it with a certain kind of goods, whether you're in the import or export business, you have to know. Since you've packed the law in six points, we're coming to what's the point. Article 5, that we Serbian radicals do not want, and most Serbian citizens, and especially those who are the bearers of our industrial process, those who live, our Serb peasants, from agriculture, besides the unemployed, all those who will be hit and hit on their pockets, and will earn an import lobby that already does, which destroys the Serbian economy, will earn banks that operate under privileged conditions, we oppose it in such a way. Then you may have thought, not you, but these government economists, resolute Minister Dragutinovic, Mladjan Dinkic, Bozidar Djelic or Prime Minister Cvetkovic, that this is our political story and that we are scaring the citizens. But it was back then when we knew, because unlike you, we want to work together, first of all, with those who are our friends, and before there was an escalation of this global economic crisis, we listened carefully and listened to Vladimir Putin who said that such a "powerful force" America could not survive on the greater printing of money, but there must be industrial production, that there was a developed strategy of economy, a regulated market in the world economy, in order to know who it was, and that's why it happened later. The first statements and the first hints that came to us from Jelasic, and last night I listened to him with a completely different story from Mladjan Dinkic, from Bozidar Djelic, were that it was great for the Serbian economy, that we had nothing to do with it and that no attack would be on the Serbian economy because of what is happening in the world. Since really these 15 minutes are little, and perhaps two or three hours, to talk about what is going to happen to the citizens of Serbia and how impoverished and how irresponsible and irresponsible this is, how reckless this is, because in these contractual obligations, you know, if one party meets everything, and the other party needs nothing, especially we who are in this difficult situation, we have to be at a loss, I will start from the first statements of October and November, which were a celebration character, which were pronounced and not a press conference by the government, and on various shows and from here Djelic from a pay phone, ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mladjan Dinkic said it is extremely favourable because, as of January 1, 2009, Serbian citizens will be able to import a car from some of the EU countries, and then let's get attached to the story and what Mr Krasic had just talked about, about this new decision by the German government, about the 50 billion-dollar intervention in their economy, because - there is, it can be, because they operate under the system. What are we going to do when each of the executives in our industrial, how-so-sufficient sector is moaning right now and grasping his head? If the citizens of Serbia, who believed by 11 May in this story about Fiat, now see that it is a big fraud and if they know there will be no investment from the promised 700-900m euros, if they are young and educated people, and I am not talking about the workers who are honest and who are going through this test of rehearsal that started yesterday in the flag, to find some arrest, imagine, in the words of last night's President of the independent union, "The flag", "The Kragujevac Cars", Mr Zoran Mihajlovic, where a young man who is 34 years old, a master of machine science from Kragujevac, who is about to doctor, couldn't pass the test yesterday with Italians. Of the 40 questions asked, and he was one of the most recognized young experts in the area, in the car factory, he managed to answer 23 questions because these tests are abnormal. I don't know what else to say. Yesterday morning, I warned, i.e. the day before yesterday, Verica Kalanovic that this would happen and that these are not rigorous conditions, but that the intention of Fiat is obvious to disabling a contract which the union president himself says is unknown to workers. Imagine, those who are constantly negotiating with the management, who were involved in Serbia and Fiat's alleged strategic partnership, do not know what the contract contains. We, MPs, are merely suggesting that we learn what we have learned, which is that the state and how it rewarded those who co-operated with The Hague tribunal, which is the born brother, formerly mentioned, a certain Paula Karvan, this Olga, who is the spokesman of The Hague tribunal, who owns the company Citadel and who participated, mediated in the conclusion of this famous strategic contract. As far as we came today, Mr. Minister, in this recession of the automotive industry around the world, and in an alleged intention to start here with the famous production of 300,000 cars? The fact that Fiat company, and today their representative comes and I think it is already in Kragujevac, has been announced that it should come, retains investment up to 200 million, and the state of Serbia has to invest in infrastructure. The town of Kragujevac participated in the release from local municipal taxis, construction land arrangements and all that we gave as a relief, and the state must invest for each worker at least 100,000 euros to work, and that is not 3,600, but 2,400 employees, that is all exact data. So it was a big con. The agencies are also very often working on individual polls on party ratings, but to keep ourselves clean in the economy, if they're following now, and if they're investigating now, these were two issues that were in front of the citizens -- what kind of attitude the citizens would be towards the SAA, and now you have a proposal for a unilateral application that would cost a lot of Serbia and directly hit the pocket of the Serbian peasant, the unemployed, the worker, the one who works in the industry, the one who's going to lose his job. Here, they say, I don't have time right now, Mr. Minister, but I can give it to you, I can see that you've been prepared by some material, the director of the Sevojna Valionnica, the director of Grocka, various others who are in the leading places in Serbia, and who say - the reference interest rate is growing, the set of money, 20% to finance our economy, the inability to be exported anywhere. For example, Sevojno 90% of its products exports every year. At the end of the year, since this global economic crisis began, the offer of famous customers has been reduced by 20%, and they watch as they maintain such a level of production. Tell me where the logic is, why are we doing this to ourselves and why are we destroying a Serbian peasant who has no subsidy or has a minimum of state? Both communists and capitalists, such as you who are completely liberal and rudely going to capitalisation of Serbia and leaving so many workers, have always had the goal of destroying small farms and small peasants. Of this tiny peasant, that will be said to you by people who deal with agriculture here, and sitting in our parliamentary benches, such as Mr Zivanovic or Mr Krstin, however, this underrated Serbian peasant with a small light needs to feed the citizens of Serbia and these hungry children in the future. We are explicitly against such irresponsible policies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would like, Mr. Minister, to see the full government of the Republic of Serbia appear here after the first quarter and the budgeting and implementation of this unilateral trade agreement, and to see what are the negative effects of the Serbian economy, especially agriculture. If you too, Mr. Ilic, were to be honest, so if you were to read the data that should be summed up in the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and let's say it was the total receipt of all employees, they work, get up at five, six o'clock in the morning, everyone from the house goes and works in stables, in fields, in products, everything they earn, the average of earnings in Serbia, Mr. Minister, would not be these 400 euros that you boast of December 2008. Because it's impossible, because they can't survive. What happens now, I'll come back, and I'll end up at the beginning of the story. As counterpart Mirovic said, a thousand products will be free of customs, mostly those related to agriculture. Today in Serbia, there is a great paradox. That's not what you're worried about. We are not concerned about those we have, not only the average, but also about those who have zero dinars, extremely high wages, how we will survive in terms of what we are going to eat, but if we have an average in mind, and that every farmer in Serbia will tell you, that through great trouble, rural sweat and work, the price of produced goods, fruits, vegetables, any raw materials, is extremely low on our market, and that unlike when you go to the grocery store, food is the most expensive, is it, and it takes at least two-thirds of the income, or the budget of each Serbian family, explain who came to this phantom idea to apply the trade agreement unilaterally and to destroy this little we live on and how to survive in 2009. So, you can see from these arguments that were made by colleagues... (President: Time. ) I end up, before me and based on what the workers are telling you, and you are enough with this appeal for employees in the flag of cars in Kragujevac, that without the peasant mob and without investment in agriculture Serbia has no recovery. Thank you, and I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12301	Ms. Milica Radovic according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the objective of this amendment is the same as that of all previous amendments submitted by my colleagues from the DSS, and in the end all MPs who discussed it today. The shortest can be described as opposing the unilateral application of the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU. This is another in a series of unreasonable government moves that Serbia will lose more than 300m euros of budget inflows directly from reducing customs rates, and indirectly even more. There is no country in the world that would accept at this moment of extremely pronounced economic crisis to do something like this, accept to make such a decision. Instead of all of us putting together efforts to protect our domestic economy, which is very fragile anyway, we're going to make this agreement, and with one side of its preparation, to make things even more absurd, definitely lead to our economy being ruined. Such thinking is also present with some representatives of the ruling majority. Unfortunately, there are few of them. I will quote some statements, specifically the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Sasa Dragin, who said - the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU is not in the interest of our country at the moment. On the first day of application, we will lift customs duties for about 1,000 products, at a time when we are far from ready for the upcoming competition. I will also quote a statement by Mr Pajtic, who also said that the unwary application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU would lead a Serb peasant into an extremely hopeless position. I also mention that agriculture is a convincing one of Serbia's largest export forces, to export 1.2 billion euros a year to Serbian agricultural products. The question, then, is it not good to invest in our own domestic agriculture in order to develop our own production and increase export potential, as we lose our unilateral implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU? The issue may become even more important if agriculture is known to be the only branch in Serbia to record a trade surplus. This government's decision absolutely fits into the overall bad economic policy run by this government. I don't want to talk about all the decisions and the wrong economic moves of this government, because I don't want to take up the Parliament's time, but I'm only going to look at the ones that might be the strongest right now. First, the government not only did not respond adequately, but it did so with a great delay, when measures were to be taken to reduce the negative effects of the global, or financial crisis. I'm just saying that in the banking sector, instead of immediately raising the level of secured deposits from 3,000, as early as it was, to some figure she was assessing at that point, she didn't have to accept the DSS proposal if she didn't consider it adequate, I think that would definitely stop what happened, which is the withdrawal of 914m euros in savings deposits from banks. Secondly, I don't think the government should have signed a decision on the extended effect of the General Collective Treaty at the time when the crisis already existed, at the moment she knew there wasn't enough money in the register for that amount of expenditure. I will remind you that this is the time when the whole world is thinking about how to survive next year and when the whole world is already forced to apply various crisis measures, because it was clear to everyone at that time that the recession will not be short-lived, but that there is a great possibility that it will deepen, that it will become long-lasting. I really hope so, but unfortunately I can't help but say that there's no great possibility that she's turning into a depression that we've had the opportunity to see in the early thirties, 40s of the 20th century. I don't think anyone in this room has the clear motives that the government had in mind and in view of the signing of this decision. I don't think a serious government can afford a kick like this. This, unfortunately, will remain another one in a series of unfulfilled government promises, which is equal to that of increasing jobs by 200,000 new ones, at a time when not only did they start layoffs, but the wave of layoffs cannot be stopped. That is exactly why I submitted this amendment in time, to simply prevent the government from making another economic failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12303	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Mr. Nikolic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that more often the Minister of Faith should be a representative of the Government, since the atmosphere in the Assembly is much more acceptable than when any of the other ministers or prime ministers attend here. So it is the amendment of MP Milica Radovic, who is in fact a picture of today's contemporary political scene in Serbia, a picture of government relations and opposition towards the whole world, and not just towards European integration. The Progressive Group does not treat Serbia as a country that should unilaterally co-operate with only certain countries in the world. So we've always said that Serbia should have more doors, as Saint Sava said -- Serbia is east in the west, west in the east. We always said that with cooperation with friends, we should provide cooperation with those who are less friends. That is why we were prepared to accept the Association Agreement, with amendments adopted by the government, however, only the political situation has prevented us from participating in the vote of the agreement, but what follows, which makes the Government of the Republic of Serbia, very bad for the agreement itself, and very bad for the citizens of Serbia's relationship under a good agreement. In fact, we need to co-operate with the EU. One who says we can survive without that co-operation can only happen that he fell from Mars yesterday, and that he doesn't know the situation in the country, and that he doesn't know the financial flows, and that he doesn't know how much privatisation has entered into the hands or countries or individuals of the EU in these eight years, that he doesn't know how much we've already agreed to accept different arrangements, agreements, interstate agreements. That's one side of the medal. The other side of the medal is this law. It's really incomprehensible, if the children had written it, especially this Article 5, they wouldn't have written it like this. First, the law was withdrawn and the government passed a new law on December 31st. For this provision that I want to talk about, the Government says - if the transitional agreement does not take effect until this law is passed, the transitional agreement will apply, tell me who expected the transitional agreement to be ratified in EU member states from 31 December to 14 January? What are you playing with us for? So there was no possibility that the transitional agreement could be ratified in other countries. Keep an eye out, even if it had come into effect, they would have ceased to be subject to the provisions of this law, but you, in Section 2, say what the Proposer has never said before, that this law annuls itself in the event of the adoption of another law. It wasn't in this congregation for all these 18 years of multilaterals. It can be passed a law that repeals some of the provisions of another law, but the law says, "I will be repealed if one day you adopt another law, it has not yet been passed." And now the very provision of Article 5. It is a courtship towards the EU. I would understand if you had said -- from today in Serbia, all films will be made in English, I would say -- here, they are licking the EU, but it won't cost us much. We teach kids to watch movies in English, teach them Serbian in some other way, so what happens? But here you are directly entering the core, into a being, based on the citizens of Serbia, and primarily I would say to the Serbian peasant. You're destroying it unilaterally. The EU will not destroy it, but you who are in power, you who could read Angela Merkel's statement. She said -- in this financial crisis, each EU member state will defend itself. This is the situation of the crisis. So many EU producers will be at risk. You now approve of importing goods from the EU, not aircraft, not televisions, not refrigerators, but ports, potatoes, edible oils, all that we produce here with heavy pain and more expensive than in the EU. You approve of it by importing under the provisions of the Transition Agreement and it will be cheaper than our goods, and it will flood our market, and our peasant will be held by his head. I don't know why this is treating the EU. Is that what any of you asked for? Let's see the name of the guy who asked for it. Did they ask you for import lobbys? They did. Will someone from the government, someone from G17 plus or else give them money for it? Yeah, he'll give money, he'll give a lot of money. Is it really so important that a few people who are harassing Serbia get money, or is it much more important that Serbia survives the most difficult year, probably the hardest year since 1952, when I was born, when everything was hungry alive. This is no longer an attitude, whether your party is in power or in opposition, this is a relationship, my fellow MPs, each of you towards Serbia, towards its citizens, towards its future. Do not be obliged by the party to vote this Article 5 of this Act. Please think that the future is also happening for Serbia, not just for the EU. We'll take turns in power, you and we advances with parties that are close to us in ideology and programming and who decide to cooperate with us. I can't force anyone to cooperate with a very strong opposition party. But don't leave us any laws that we'll have to undo. Leave the laws we will enforce or improve. Do not force us to dedicate our first sessions of the National Assembly to repealing the pest laws on the day when the next elections are held. Think about it now. Do not open the gates of Serbia, we bear the thought of suggesting that you close them completely for importing goods. In April you will remember that, in April you will close those gates, close them today. You open the gates wide for EU goods. They really care about our market. No, you're showing that we're ready to be servants. You don't have a majority among Serbian citizens who want to be servants. You have a majority who wants to live free, but also that he's not afraid of other people's punishments and other people's retributions. The size of politicians is that he leads his country so that his people are not afraid, but that his people do not feel humiliated and offended, that his people do not feel like a servant to someone who has blackmailed his president or his Prime Minister. So tell the leader, who has provided gas, who will preserve KIM, who has provided the budget, that Serbia does not exist just to take a picture, Serbia exists so that those who are the most clever, who are willing to give it the most, to guide it. You are slowly losing that course, slowly losing focus on what it takes for Serbia to be well-led. It's not my fault, and look how the elections are getting closer, and I know that many MP groups are just afraid of choosing the force to behave now, but what you're going to do is there's nothing more beautiful than the election. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12305	First, Mr. Shormaz answered, and then Mr. Krasic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, probably the Minister of Faith is here with us because when we saw this law, most of us crossed us and said, "God help me, what did they send to the Assembly?" Then they sent this minister, although he's not trying to come out and pollute with us, to convince us, at least from the opposition, that he's not so scary about this bill and that it won't be as terrible for Serbia as I see the whole opposition claims he will be. This is not about European integration at all: yes or no. The DSS, while executive power was in the country, has done so much on the path of European integration that the current executive power, so incompetent, will take it one 30 years to arrive those three years, as we did while we were executive power in Serbia. However, the DSS has always advocated, despite co-operation with the EU, and for co-operation with Russia, with the United States, the countries that have the largest economic growth in the last decade in the world, such as China, India, Brazil, to apply everything positive in our country from the experiences of these countries, not just what EU policy is. What the EU's policy towards Serbia is we see every day. It's not unnecessary to say that you disagree with something and that something you're forced into is not good. Simply, what is now done is bad, not because of European integration, it's bad because of Serbia, it's bad because of Serbia's economy, it's bad because of the citizens of Serbia. That's extremely bad. The application of this will also slow us down with the European integration itself, because our economy is going to have major blows and then it will not be ready to fully engage in this large European family as it should, when it becomes an EU member one day. I said an example of IMT. The DSS MPs talked about it. How are you going to explain to IMT workers why they're losing their jobs, why they're losing the market, because that's what's going to happen when this law applies, if you adopt it? That's why you're bothered by the Assembly, that's why you're talking about the obstruction of the Assembly, because you control the country's electronic media, you're telling a story, especially this one across the street -- the President of the Republic, who speaks like nice, nice, now he defends jobs. What has been promised - 200,000 jobs, of which there is nothing, but it will turn out to be a badge when in Serbia 200,000 people lose their jobs because, my God, it has not lost two million, so it will tell the others, if it wasn't for me and you would have lost your job, only 200 thousand have lost. That's the spin you're doing. That's why the congregation's bothering you, it's bothering you to hear the truth. That's why you're talking about obstruction. That's why you're talking about the Rules of Procedure. Who's obstructing? You. The day before yesterday, you weren't 126 to begin at 10.00 this morning, you weren't on the Legislative Committee to reach your opinion and you didn't have a quorum to start at 1200 hours to work. You're obstructing parliament. You are an incompetent congregation majority, the government is incompetent and a pest government per state of Serbia. This law will do great damage, not only to these 300m euros, which are being talked about. It's not the only damage. Much greater damage to the loss will be an even greater loss and an increase in the number of unemployed in Serbia, loss of jobs. That's a fact. Threatening the Serbian village, endangering the economy and strengthening, from all of this, only a small number of wealthy individuals. You only take care of them. In the afternoon debate, I said an example and now I state it, what does that mean to reduce the customs rate on imports of cars from the EU? Practically, this means that a car, and a modest car from the EU, costing 20,000 euros, will now cost 18 000. Well, whoever's got 18 grand in Serbia, he's got 20 grand to buy a car. That's exactly the difference the citizens of Serbia will pay, the poorer layer of Serbia, because you're raising excises, you're thinking of raising VAT. The whole of Europe lowers VAT, lowers interest rates, only you can mention it. He says the day before yesterday the minister, who was present here, is not present today - do not open the VAT topic. We want to open it. Why don't you look up to the EU? How can VAT be brought down to help the economy, everyone takes care of their economy, is not being run globally, there is no pro-European solution to the global economic crisis, but every country in the EU solves in its own way the problem they have, because the different ones are not at all thinking about reducing VAT, helping businesses, discharging the burden they have, not firing workers. No, that's not what you're thinking, it's just the realisation of the budget that matters to you. The problem is the number of MPs. You'll save 138 million dinars on an annual basis. You write about it, and how much do you spend a month on staples and paper, how many advisors in 28 ministries, the largest government in Europe, how many advisors do you have for four vice presidents and Prime Ministers, how much compared to MPs? It's only the parliament's fault. (President: Time. ..... Here, I'm done. So I repeat once again, this bill in Serbia's interest must be rejected, we leave everything at what it has been, we accept these amendments, we reject this bill, because this bill helps Serbia and that is a fact, not the EU to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12307	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12308	He's probably the most important member of this bill. However, a single mistake was stolen in that hiding, and it is of the nature that it cannot actually hide. The question arises, is it just a mistake, a mental error, or another buy of time, or another store. This member is in connection with what happened several months ago, in September of last year, when the agreement with the EU and this transitional trade agreement were ratified here. That's one dimension. The dimension can only be interpreted as follows, that when all EU member states ratify the agreement, it would have to come into force and become a binding legal act. It would probably become an integral part of our constitutional-legal order. I must remind you that, regardless of all the activities that were related to that agreement, starting with that pen in your left hand, then by paraphrasing, then signing, the day you were happy to sign, that something epochal was done, the next day the information came that those who were your partners did not accept it, that it was delayed until further notice. It's not the first time Boris Tadic has been cowardly, a major diplomatic success, etc., and already tomorrow he gets a slap, as he turns, but the whole of Serbia is tumba, both media and economic, and political. Just to remind you, in order to avoid any doubt, it was then concluded that the agreement was not applied in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and then in the Law on the ratification of the agreement one member was added to assist, first of all, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state bodies of the Republic of Serbia in how to interpret the agreement from the point of view of the territory to be applied. You remember what happened to that member of the law, that amendment. You remember you didn't accept it first, then you accepted it, and then someone took a break, so he didn't vote for the law. There's been a lot of things going on after that. You see for yourself that all those who did not vote for this bill were right. Obviously, since the agreement and co-production with the EU could not legally come into force, then it is known what the principle is. Someone's got to be cowardly before it's too long. He corned Heidi. He said, what they condition us, we will unilaterally apply it, we said it would be a terrible pity for the Republic of Serbia. The EU does not need to insist on the agreement. She doesn't have to rush when she's going to ratify, they'll never ratify it, and you all know it. They won't ratify. It's not their interest, and I could say even the civil interest because there are great problems and great barriers. It has served them to make some new political demands. You couldn't wait for them here. Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and all co-production related to Eulex. You work hard at it, tops, you pay, you reward, you affirm. I am absolutely certain that from the DS, however many members you have, I do not believe the three have seen another amended indictment filed against Radovan Karadzic. Just to remind you, look at this indictment, because you are the authority, because you are going to the International Court of Justice in The Hague to represent Serbia in the dispute against Croatia on the genocide suit. What the hell are you guys doing? We don't need a solanita at all. You're doing more damage to us, both economically and morally and stately, not to mention where dignity went. When it combines with your media, then you can become a victim of your media. Today is one member of the DS, tomorrow some from G17 plus, today Maras is also killed because Autonomated Tadic no longer tolerates it, he has to put them down a little bit. They don't choose funds. What's he got to go through? What's this big political interest that all this has to be done for? Double naked. Nothing. Imagine how you broke the EU, that one of our great businessmen here organized, angry, meeting in Brussels and said, "I'm sorry, please, you in Brussels, these little chickens being led like some authority, conditions, I can't develop, I ask that the EU stand behind me, paid, organised a meeting, and even in English, brought in even Ollie Reno, to support his project. His project, I have money, I can import, I can hold a monopoly, I can finish because of that monopoly of economic, financial, banking, and production, and trade, and so on, you're all prisoners. That's why you in the secret GO DS session in Subotica were considering what measures you should support, because he employs 20,000 workers. If he acted like those who, as a result of their behaviour, had these tents outside the presidency building, it would be a great tragedy for the Republic of Serbia. In the principle debate, I informed you that in Article 1. The bill, if you wanted to do something serious, you had to write the words "confirmation law" before this word. The Confirmation Act obliges us. If you went to this variant with Article 5, where you stated that there was something only that could destroy itself, however, I don't know who wrote you this explanation. In the light of the law, you say, law-making will not significantly affect the level of income of the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of customs burdens. In your response to the amendment to Article 5 of this Act, you make a completely opposite argument. Just to point out, you say - business entities in the Republic of Serbia have been preparing for the conditions of sharper competition since 1 July 2008 to reduce the protection of domestic production. Tell me, please, who prepared it. Tell me which factory in Serbia that the manufacturer has prepared for the period when this law will start to apply and when, without customs duty or small customs duty, it will import goods from abroad, and it has organised itself, reduced costs, organised production, competed with these products. I'm telling you, there is no such thing on the Serbian market. What do you say next? Also, the economic operators expected the import of goods, so you put (especially raw materials and repromaterials), at a lower rate of customs duty already by 2008/2009. A year. They've already calculated that. Where's your raw material? Where's that repromatter we're going to import on better terms than now? Which at least you didn't get out of that economic agreement, which you're glorifying by Article 5, you pulled 70 items of raw materials and repromation, and you said, it's changing, the rate was, I don't know, 3%, and now it's going to be 1%. So when you talk about second-hand cars, so we criticize you, and you say, please, the advantage of this agreement, see how low the customs rates for re-promaterials and raw materials are. You don't want to demonstrate that kind of mangubble either. Then, in the law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, the government is called upon to the Memorandum of Budgetary Policy, and the Budget Rebalancing Act and the Budget Law only mentions the words of the Memorandum of Budgetary Policy. That's where you say you've already prepared everything for it. At the beginning you say we know that there are negative consequences to the application of this, but tell us what's big, big what's yet to come, which requires this kind of sacrifice. You sacrifice agriculture, you sacrifice our industry, you sacrifice KIM, now you prepare Vojvodina, you chase this for The Hague, and you even pay the snitches and those who catch, you do all the negative things. Tell us what's the great good that needs to slap us in the face of the global financial crisis. The great good that needs to come is neither French nor Germany, and they are allegedly EU engines. They say, please, we're patching ourselves up to survive. What's going to happen, the Italians are firing, the Germans are preparing for layoff, the banking sector is shaken, the financial market is shaken. They admit they're in trouble and you say no, we have to call it a little bit here, because we're gonna get a big profit. From who? Of those who admit to being in crisis? You know, they probably can't hide the crisis of their countries and they admire you for being successful at that kind of virtuality. Everything's nice, everything's great, turn on Pink, turn on this one, turn on that TV, everything's nice, the singers, here and now we have the development path of Žarko Jokanovic, hedonism, super, grand, party, Big Brother, typhoons, orcans, let's party, let's go faster forum, let's see if the dog bit the MP or the messenger bit the dog. How long? Until someone lets us know that we've failed completely. And you have to answer. You have to answer because of this persistently bad and ugly policy you're running. In all fields there are only negative results, there are no positive policies towards Kosovo and Metohija, free oaths, free constitution, free of charge and that amendment to that law, nothing is applied there, everything you said would not apply. Unmik's regulations are gone, Unmik's officer is gone, our regulations are gone. What's going on? The rules of an independent independent state of Kosovo, and this is financed by EU funds, to strengthen the legal order, to teach them how to rule, to entangle, and you will be in front of the International Court of Justice in The Hague to act as an advisory opinion. This is where you haunt people, kneel, pray. In front of who? What's the use? Is there any use? Why are you doing this? Who's blackmailed you so much? Who are you suffering this fear from? You have to answer. Your moves are illogical, side by side unconstitutional, your laws are bad, economically unwarranted, you're jeopardizing the social situation, all that stands, but what planetary force has pushed you? Do you perhaps expect even greater damage? Do the calculations have to do this, if we don't do it, the damage will be even greater? Which one? Access funds? Forget them, there's no access funds. Are you all doing this because of the promised 500m euros in IMF loans? Do you know how much head pains when the IMF is funding something. And how it's gonna be spent, for what purposes, who's gonna put their paws on it. What corridor? X, Ipsylon. Or the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, and then you're gonna arrest that mayor and that Zoran guy because they're up against the autonomists, and you represent them here as criminals, and now you're holding your head with them, you're gonna have to let them out of custody because there's nothing you want to prove, and you can't hit the OMV and these others? What kind of politics are you running? Who's the boss here? The boss is the one who pays you, the boss is the one who guarantees you that in the election campaign he will help you stay in power. The bosses are who: those who create a media image of Serbia. Why? To keep these and these, this policy remains, and that is a bad policy for the Republic of Serbia. You have no positive results in the Republic of Serbia since 25 January 2001, none. Perhaps in your columns, there are certainly others in your columns, but there are other columnists, but that is already another kind of creation, not social and political responsible creation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12309	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12310	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we are nearing a debate on the law on the Transition Agreement on Trade and Trade, but unfortunately we still do not have an answer to many of the questions that MPs have asked in the previous debate either from the Government or from our colleagues who are in power or from the Minister himself, and there are many questions about this unilateral application of the agreement, very many questions that we need to explain, or very many answers, not just for us MPs, but for the citizens of Serbia because of their money. Why should Serbia unilaterally accept this agreement? What are the reasons for this acceptance? What are Serbia's interests? Who benefits from this acceptance? Is it normal for Serbia, for the Serbian poor to finance the EU? Is it normal to open our market for the EU without the EU opening its market for our goods on the other hand? Is it normal for Serbia, as people would say, to carry a fat goose? These questions have not been answered by the government so far, we have not received an answer from the congregation’s majority. There are many questions, one of them is whether the government is being blackmailed by the EU, whether this unilateral acceptance of the agreement is the fact that otherwise we will not get loans from European banks. Did Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, plan to raise taxes on additional value, VAT, from 18 per cent to 19 per cent, to make up for this money? It's the same amount we're just going to throw out the window, give the EU away. It is an opportunity to remind you at the end of this debate that you have a budget deficit of some 49 billion dinars, that for public debt you need to find another 50 billion dinars, that you have to make up either of the privatisations or of the new borrowings. As far as privatisation is concerned, it's going to be a lot of trouble. You are aware that there are no foreign investments, that it will be very difficult to continue the privatisation process and that you will have very little inflow into the budget by privatisation. We'll have to go to new assignments. Should we, on the one hand, be in charge of the citizens of Serbia, and throw the money of Serbian citizens out the window? Twenty-five billion dinars, that's the money that's involved, that's about 250 and more in this current course, millions of euros, that's about 25 to 30 euros per capita in Serbia, that's over 100 euros per every four-member family in Serbia. It is not a small expense for Serbian citizens, it is not a small expense at the moment when the devastating effects of the global crisis are yet to be expected. I would say that if we take the average price of one job as 10,000 euros, and it's much smaller in Serbia, you can open 25,000 jobs with this money. You're talking about how you're fighting for jobs, saving jobs, and you're just giving up 25,000 jobs. As far as my Jagodinians are concerned, it's 250-300 jobs, as far as the Marines are concerned, it's over a thousand jobs. Do they just, without any reason of government, without any explanation of the congregation's majority, have to give it up? Could the People's MPs, as a People's MP from Jagodina, just vote for this law, go out to those people's eyes tomorrow, the day after the weekend, when I return to Jagodina? Could all my fellow MPs from the Progressive Group do that to Serbia from SNS Tomislav Nikolic? We certainly can't. Perhaps you could have persuaded us to support this law if you had any serious reasons. I would remind you that this is not all, that the adoption of this law in any case, most likely already in the spring, means new taxes, that it means inflation, that it means the drop in the standard of living of all citizens, most likely the growth of the consumer basket for some 2,000 or 2,500 dinars, and in any case the loss of new jobs due to the liberalisation of imports of everything and everything. Are there political reasons for this decision? Do you think that by unilaterally accepting this agreement, we will pardon the Netherlands, that all of this is not one political game to put further pressure on Serbia when it comes to Kosovo's status? Do you really believe that we will enter the EU before other Balkan countries, that it will not be in the package? In any case, I think it's a lot of damage to the adoption of this law, that in no way did you explain your demands for unilateral application of the trade agreement. I'd just like to say a few more words in the end, it's a negotiating position that we're going to start with. After the adoption of this law and after a unilateral application of the trade agreement, it will be much worse, as 80% of the issues affecting the Stabilisation and Association Agreement refer to customs policy, refer to the free trade zone. Therefore, our position in a further negotiating process ahead of us will be much worse. You go to harm, not only economically, but also political Serbia and the Serbian people. For SNS Tomislav Nikolic, this law is unacceptable. During this speech, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12311	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12312	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, in a domestic and now popular series, an actor through the role of peasants told his son, my son, you are my minister of doom. Our sons, and the ministers in the government, perhaps without exception, the government is a disaster, and there is no other definition. Of course, the next elections will show something else and Serbian citizens are able to express their trust who should lead them. Today we have on the agenda amendments under the Customs Tariff Act, but was it not unserious, fellow MPs, regardless of which political party you belong, that the explanation by the Minister for the National Investment Plan for seven laws lasted four minutes and 12 seconds? Mr. Ilic, a little better reference in every accounting firm in Valjev would give a better and more comprehensive explanation, and apparently by the assessment of Minister Mrs. Kalanovic was no longer needed, as it was discussed when the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2009 budget was on the agenda. We now have seven laws on the agenda and one is extremely harmful and dangerous to the citizens of Serbia, the one we are now discussing and a series of questions have been asked here, and however many people have concentrated to find the right answer, which is why such a law is proposed, it is difficult to give the right answer. Is this the only EU that requires this law to be passed? I don't think it requires only the EU, but in this difficult situation of ours, and especially since 2001, because you know, people without morality, Mr. Minister, always have been, but they've been particularly caring since 2001, and they seem to me, I recognize their role, trying in this poverty and in this misery for Serbian citizens to profit from something else. The fact that this law envisions reducing the customs rate to imports of new and second-hand cars from 20% to 12.5% indicates enough that this cannot be just an EU position, but also some, above all, tycoon that deals with the import of these cars, whether old or used. I have heard a very interesting comment here, and I will give it to this story, concerning this amendment I have submitted to Article 6, and it is a logical continuation of the amendments submitted by colleagues from the SRS, of course in similar content, by amendments and MPs of the DSS. I suggest that article 6 be deleted. Practically, this law should not have been proposed, and nothing good, but nothing good for the citizens of Serbia he will not provide, exclusively for some individuals. The reduction of customs duties must bring about, we know that the budget is charged with tax and non-tax revenue, and will directly affect tax and excise tax increases. In the event of an increase in taxes and excise duties, a more favourable climate is created for the gray area of trade and the transport of goods and services, which someone said - just this law prevents it, and I mean the opposite. If we know that a significant part of the funds will go less into the Republic of Serbia's budget because of this and this law, the state must be compensated through taxes and excise duties. The EU may have sought such a law, perhaps not, and may be some member states, and when someone wants to say -- Serbia must co-operate with both the east and the west, so it must individually, and we should go in co-operation with all the countries with which we can do it, but if impossible at this point, and it has proved explicitly impossible, because the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which this assembly adopted, was not accepted by all EU member states, so by the logic of one farmer or peasant, he says -- one man does not start building at the same time 27 houses or five, if he has five sons, but one by one. We were able to co-operate with those EU countries on the economic plan and the perspective they want and who have a correct relationship with Serbia. In addition to economic problems and economic importance that this law is not adopted, I don't think there are any MPs, whether they belong to a position or to an opposition, who are not deeply aware that this law is harmful, but of course, they will vote properly, because they support the government, and no other law is more obvious that all problems will bring to citizens of Serbia such as this. You DS colleagues, G17 plus, are also not up for this law, but you will vote because your party discipline requires it. We cannot influence this much, but we can also point out to you and the citizens of Serbia that they should try to avoid these harmful consequences that will come to Serbia's citizens after the adoption of such a law. There is also legal problems here for such a law, because you said in your explanation - the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is a provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is the basis for the National Assembly that it can pass laws, but it is not the basis for such a law where the National Assembly will pass on certain obligations and responsibilities, I would say to the government of the Republic of Serbia that it can, at the latest in November for the current year, coordinate and have a relationship with integrated tariffs. That's just impossible. We do not want the Government of the Republic of Serbia to rule under regulations. We had one period and it turned out to be very bad. If such a law is passed and adopted, the most problems and damages will be done to our farmers, or peasants in Serbia. You know that it is, but it is not a problem that only about 260m euros will be less collected in Serbia's budget on the basis of these revenues that will no longer exist, but it is a bigger problem that people will be left without their incomes. Farmers do not seek employment, they ask the state to take care of their products and when certain disturbances occur on the world market to intervene in a certain way and help them. This is not only sought by agricultural producers, but also by those involved in the organisation of agricultural production, whether directly or indirectly. On one occasion, I was saying that the state, or this government, and the previous government, are affecting the disposal of industrial plant production, such as tobacco, and that it is not misunderstood, the SRS does not advocate and protect the interests of foreign cigarette producers, but protects the interests of agricultural producers. Until then, we will have such a relationship, while cigarettes are produced in Serbia, we will intend to protect the interests of tobacco producers. By passing the law on the termination of the mandatory ransom, it was the first phase, and the second stage when the premium is scheduled to be abolished. The next problem came about in the production of blackberries and already a certain number of coolants in Serbia has been born in 2007, a thousand tonnes since 2007, not exported, and they are in a very mood and have even done elaborates, and are ready to invest individual ice-cream owners in the production of porridge of these products. But because of the uncertainty, because of the indifference of the government, because of the government that has the function of destroying agricultural production and each other in Serbia, and that there is nothing better than the life they promised, they daren't, because of the 300 refrigerators that exist in Serbia, ten of them export over 70% to 80% of frozen fruit and vegetables, but the state at no time is the exception of the Export Agency, which has only been a single aid, and there is no other joint appearance about overcoming other problems. The most likely genus of the 2008 raspberries is also at risk, so 2009 will not be good and favourable for raspberries producers. And let me not tell you about the plum production, where in Serbia there are 140,000 ha and about 42 million trees, and where it was first in the world in production, it fell to fourth place in Europe and seventh in the world. And there's no talking about the production of dry plums. All of these are the problems that this law on amendments to the Customs Tariff Act will negatively affect agricultural production and the largest number of around 1,000, if that is to say, about 1,000 products, which will not have customs duties, the largest number from agricultural production, and this is a very dangerous fact, but it is enough if we look at budget filling and we know that according to the VAT from the country, therefore domestic products, should be income of 98 billion 787 million and 400,000 dinars, and that is 29.15% of VAT compared to imports - 236 billion 38 million and 700,000 or 69.85%. This suggests that there is no protection of agricultural production, but there is no protection or domestic production at all. National MP Zoran Krasic said in the light of the previous amendment that economic operators in the Republic of Serbia have already been told to prepare for something like this. They haven't prepared themselves, no one's prepared for this alive, because it's impossible in these conditions for anyone to prepare themselves more seriously for this. It is very interesting that colleague Milica Vojić-Markovic said that the Veterinary Service has a great claim and that this will not be able to perform its function in the best way, that is, the way it should be, and that is one way to reduce the production of tow cattle, because we are falling quotas because of it. If 7,000 exports of juniper meat were granted, it was not respected, so it has now decreased to 1,000 tonnes, but the EU has a single market. If sometimes, I don't know when it will be or whether it will be at all, not because I am a Eurosceptic, but because the government, acting like this, and in the far future, doesn't suggest that there could be integration with the EU countries, we come into such a position, they will say -- at some point you had that production, it remains at that level, and all of this is in the most direct way related to the employment of Serbian citizens, and thus to their standard. This is about the goal, to come into economic dependence on someone, and it is someone who affects the election results in Serbia, and when we economically depend or depend on Serbian citizens, then it is very easy to politically manipulate them. Another example, it does not encourage this prediction of your suspension, i.e. the reduction of customs duties on new and used vehicles from 20 to 12.5%, because this morning as I traveled from Love through the Little Zvornik and Loznica, an ice-wrapped road, it was not pleasant to drive in a four-point vehicle either, I saw a large number of people through a very fertile sword with a bicycle. Then the story of imports, i.e. the reduction of customs duties to old and new cars from 20 to 12.5%, has no justification, and this government is the government of failure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12313	Mr. Milan Lapčević, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12314	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by Mr. Sreto Peric was aimed at reducing the damage to the effects that this proposal on customs tariff amendments would surely produce. In general, this whole package of laws on the agenda came to the Assembly as a fruit of a rather politically unreasonable and harmful decision on the simple application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Why is this decision on unilateral application of the SAA harmful and what is the view of its harmfulness? The reduction and elimination of certain customs duties on imported products will reduce the inflow into the Republic of Serbia's budget, although the legislation says that the adoption of this law will not significantly affect the level of revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of customs burdens. That is not true and everyone who knows the structure of the inflow into the Republic of Serbia's budget, all serious economists said this year that Serbia will earn between 250m and 300m euros less money in the budget, based on the unilateral application of the SAA. That's about an accurate estimate. It is not only a pity that around 300m euros will be less in the Republic of Serbia's budget, although the figure is quite large for our budget, knowing that we have about 50 billion dinars or about 600m or slightly less euros in the budget deficit, we will have 300m euros less inflows in the budget. The inflow into the Republic of Serbia's budget will, the government has also proposed, to cover Serbia's citizens. What will not be collected through customs duties on certain products from EU countries will be paid by Serbian citizens through a certain higher tax, higher taxes, higher excise duties on, above all, goods of broad consumption used by the widest layer of the population. Another major damage from such an unreasonable political decision, for which the Serbian government does not offer an adequate solution and answer, is that by reducing or abolishing certain customs duties on certain EU products, the goods will flood the domestic market and thus directly endanger the sale, and thus produce domestic goods. If EU goods come in here with reduced or abolished customs duties, they will be far more competitive, perhaps at lower prices, which will directly affect domestic producers, i.e. the sale of their products, will have to reduce the production of these products, which will have an implicit effect on the loss of existing jobs. Because if you don't produce the number of products you've sold on the domestic market so far, then you're going to have to reduce production, which is why you're going to have to fire a certain number of workers from work. No matter how paradoxically it sounds and tragically, Serbia will directly affect the preservation of jobs in EU countries by adopting these laws. We will protect jobs in factories in EU countries, but because our workers, because of the goods they produce, because of the various tax burdens, because of the high interest on loans taken by the economy, will not be able to be competitive and, of course, there will be less sales, and thus production and job needs. The government has proposed that the first adverse effect be covered by all solidarity, i.e. the coverage is the widest layer of the population through the payment of higher taxis to various duties and excise duties, primarily on gasoline and tobacco. The answer to the second major adverse effect -- what the economy will do with itself when there are no cheap loans and when it will certainly be affected by the reduction of customs duties on import goods -- answers to this question so far by the government does not offer and I fear that the damage will be much greater than the first one that can be measured by a figure of around 300m euros. I was expecting and on the first day I didn't answer when the debate started, I expected Minister Diana Dragutinovic to ask her a question, but there is a State Secretary, Mr Ilic, so I will take the opportunity to ask him. Last year, 2008 was less than 25-30 billion dinars in Serbia's budget from the budget rebalance. If I'm wrong in some small numbers, correct me, but it's moving around here somewhere. Remember when we talked about budget rebalancing and when I submitted an amendment concerning certain social contributions to workers still social enterprises in the territory of the city of Nis, that they were smoothly rejected. The amendments I submitted to the 2009 budget proposal, which were similar in nature, were also rejected. My amendment to the budget of the Republic of Serbia concerning the transfer of funds belonging to local self-government based on the sale of capital of a particular company in their territory has been accepted. So far, it has been undefined and the budget has transferred funds from local self-government, when he felt it should, the 5% of the sale of capital. So, now I'm going to tell you the reason why I suggested it, and in the future, according to the 2009 Budget Law, the transfer of 5% of the capital of social enterprises in the territory of certain local self-government will be realised within seven days of payment to the Republic of Serbia's budget. So far there has been no deadline, so the city of Nis suffered from the sale of the Nis tobacco industry in 2003, not to mention how meaningful it is, by not transferring 5% of the total amount of the sale of the Nis tobacco industry, the town of Nis suffered the total damage of 1.3m euros. Of the total 20m euros to be transferred to Nisa, because it was not done at the moment when it was paid by the buyer to the Republic of Serbia's budget, several months later in a few tranches, based on exchange rates, the city of Nis was cut off 1.3m euros. In addition, 100 million regular transfer funds were abolished in December for lack of money in the Treasury. Also, while the city of Nis requested that interest be transferred to him on the basis of deposited funds in the National Bank's Treasury for the past three years, it is said that there is nothing left for now. Mayor Nisa announced he would press charges against the government of the Republic of Serbia over such a relationship. First the transfer funds, i.e. late, secondly, are abolished, there is no interest money based on the deposited funds of the city of Nis. For three years, the budget of the city of Nisa, i.e. the surplus budget, was deposited in the NBS vault. There are interest rates extremely low, but in three years they accumulated at a figure of 100 million dinars. The state is obliged to pay the money to the town of Nis, if the other incentive means do not want to help those parts of Serbia that, by nature, are undeveloped and most affected by the transition, then it is obliged to at least pay what our money is. When I say ours, I mean the city of Nis. The DSS is in Nis opposition, but in this kind of thing we absolutely support Mr. Mayor who is from the DS and who will sue his government and his prime minister for abolishing or cutting off the city of Nis for his money. I'm afraid there's going to be more and more repetitive here, the long-exposed flossula - where our money is. We rightly ask -- where are our money -- and we want the finance ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia to return it to the city of Nis, in order to avoid the confusion that a mayor from the ruling party sues his prime minister. That would be a disgrace to you and to the whole country. After all, we don't care, we care about bringing back the money that belongs to the city, because it's necessary for the development of our city and for all the citizens of Nis, and that's our biggest concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12315	Mr. Dragan Todorovic according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Ilic by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. I have to take some time and draw attention to the news that appeared about the situation at KIM, after NATO forces entered, who came to introduce peace. I think that every day more and more information on this matter will be made and that the truth and facts that we claim from the beginning will slowly break through not only to our public, but to the world public, and that all the crimes committed to the Serbian people will finally be exposed. We have a witness from Italian General Mauro del Veki, a former Italian army general, who led a 7,000-strong unit that entered Kosovo in June 99, after the NATO bombing ended, told the Italian weekly "Panoram" that his first three weeks of office every morning had reports on the found corpses of killed Serbs and Roma, but that it was a taboo topic they were not allowed to discuss with journalists. The murders were continued later, but they were rare. Those who did not flee from Kosovo were at constant risk of murder or rape. The abandoned Serbian houses have been torn down to the ground and burned down, and Albanians have attacked both churches and monasteries. Their goal was to erase every trace of the Serb presence at KIM, with all NATO forces present. The Italian weekly says the frightening fact is that 70% of the total number of abducted Kosovo Serbs actually disappeared after June 99th and the official end of the war. "Panorama" says that from the witnesses of a transport of kidnapped Serbs, Roma and Albanians who co-operated with Belgrade heard that in June 1999, German soldiers from the NATO group hailed trucks full of hijackers leaving Kosovo. Transport was made from Prizren to Albania, where they were removed from organs that were later sold. In the testimony of the Peruvian forensic scientist, Mr. Barjab in "Panoram", data on the Volujak cave, 50km from Pristina, were also reported ahead of which KLA members killed and dumped 26 Serb civilians, who were taken together with women in June 98th near Orahovac. Women were released at the police station in Malishevo, which was controlled by the KLA, and one of them, according to the claim, testified that she heard Jakup Krasniqi, the then senior KLA commander, who is now the president of the Kosovo Assembly, as ordered - kill them all, referring to kidnapped men, including boys. The moment we finally had everything, victims, evidence and witnesses, the Hague tribunal told us it was too late for a new investigation, as the court closed in 2010. The Kosovo judiciary was not interested in the case. The list came in possession of photographs found in Decan in 2003 by members of Unmika, which the Italian weekly did not publish because they were terrifying. They show KLA members showing a severed head of the Serbian reserve and laughing, with at least two heads in a bag in one of the photos. It is said that at the time the photographs were taken, the zone was under the command of Ramush Haradinaj, the KLA commander, who was cleared of war crimes charges before The Hague tribunal, after the court was left without witnesses, either killed or withdrawn from the threat. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you see these terrifying facts that speak of the crimes of KLA members under the auspices of the NATO Pact. These are unequivocal evidence and facts that suggest that the Serb people were then exposed, and that they are now exposed to pressure and persecution by Shipara, with the help of those who allegedly came to introduce order and peace. Now one question to think about for those of you who voted, that is, to allow the KyM to deploy the Eulex forces, to ask yourself a question - whether their task will be the same as it was. KFOR or NATO Pact, which came in 99? Among other things, the facts about the events in Kosovo Mitrovica, in Bosniaka, waved about ten days ago, when the Cypriots also tried to commit crimes and pressure to a new drive out of the Serbs with KIM. I'm asking another question to our government. If the UN tribunal was not then interested in crimes against Serbs and justified the fact that The Hague tribunal would be closed in 2010, what forced them to issue a warrant for Ratko Mladic, Goran Hadzic, to offer a million-euro reward, or 250 000 euros for Goran Hadzic? I ask only one question - did you offer one single euro for facts and circumstances about criminals and crimes committed against Serbs? Thank you and forgive this extension.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12317	Mr. Velimir Ilic has a word for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12318	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is difficult to discuss and return to the topic we had before, after all that Mr. Todorovic has said. It would turn out that as MPs, it would be very easy for us to go over some crimes, through an accident experienced by the Serbian people, and we easily accept all that they impose on us outside, to be humble, obedient. Whoever is more obedient, he prospers, who asks a little awkward questions, is politically inappropriate. And the agencies that legalize all this, explain, those who are most obedient, are currently in the best position to get power. Therefore, I am very sorry that I want to talk about the amendments that are on the agenda, but it is very unfortunate to go over these facts so easily, which Mr Todorovic said. I think we should have some fun with these topics that are extremely current. I wanted to talk a little bit about the amendment, and the last one, number five, and this one now, article six. As MPs, whether we are from the ruling coalition or from the opposition, we are working on our own damage. Many take it lightly by some party discipline and vote for what is out of the mind to be a more serious state. I cannot understand that we accept unilateral respect for the agreement with the EU. It's a crime against the people, it's simply unexplainable today, that the MP votes for something that destroys the Serbian economy, especially agriculture, something that simply gives privileges to some people outside, who rub their hands, and these horny politicians from the ruling coalition declare, imagine, we've got the best finance world minister. That title doesn't exist anywhere in the world, and for the first time it appeared, our man won and became the best finance minister in the world. What are the criteria for selecting the largest finance minister? They know exactly who needs to be turned on against their people, against their countries and recently even more to impose it, they declare it the best economist of Southeast Europe, the Balkans and beyond. A genius in the economy, and we're sinking lower and lower. We have daily problems. How does the world's best finance minister not know how to solve the most common problems in this country? No problem solved, and such a flattering title. You know how, when I read in the paper, I was overjoyed, imagine, a small Serbia, some country with these giants has the best finance minister in the world. I would suggest him here for ours, said some predecessor here, my fellow MP, says - the ministry of doom. I was thinking that maybe it would be the most convenient thing, if someone ever made that ministry of Serbia's destruction, so we could name it there, that we could at least control it, that it couldn't get out of the control that we're going to set up. What's going on right now? We're talking here about the funds that need to be collected to fill the budget and now we're going to increase a lot of taxes, taxes, we're going to raise taxes, VAT, to raise funds and add a little bit more to this powerful and powerful Europe, and we're being melted even more. That those who work a little bit in Serbia are struggling to survive, totally destroy them, and Europe a little push. It reminds me, Serbia is a country, according to our people, built-up avionics. It's where everyone can come in, bring whatever they want, sell, no one asks for a certificate, no paper, no declaration, nothing, just push the goods and trade, sell, just be out of Europe, everything's gonna be okay. We're fine with argentin meat, here, the other day one of my Chachanin imported 25 tons of beans for 1,200 euros from the Netherlands. Tell me what it means to the peasants. The beans from some reserves, I'd just like to see who's gonna cook it, whether it's gonna boil, figure out what it's gonna be, but we're gonna bring it in and sink our peasant. You have seen these great businessmen and tycoons import meat from those reserves, who knows how old and completely destroyed Serbia's livestock fund. Now our tycoons here have ordered whoever doesn't buy milk powder from them can't buy him goods in line and completely destroy the production of milk in Serbia. These unfortunate people of ours started importing milk cows, developing jobs, and suddenly milk with 34 dinars comes to 17 dinars. What's this about? Now that we're discussing these serious issues, a non-serious government, I really don't know what the former finance minister is doing, and the current Prime Minister Cvetkovic is working in that government. How's his brain? Is there anyone who can determine what's going on with this man? He sent us a minister of faith on such serious issues. I appreciate the gentleman and I respect him very much, believe me, he's done a lot for the Serbian Church and he's doing a lot of work on some issues important to Serbia, but we are now discussing this country's life, excise duties, taxes, a unilateral agreement with the EU, the respect of this unilateral agreement. What's going on? We have a minister of faith coming here to listen to all this and a man wonders where he comes from and what he's looking for. The day before yesterday, we had the Minister of Spatial Planning on this subject. Mrs. Kalanovic, someone here was discussing, said three or four sentences, as if in passing somewhere on the market she went, so she came to parliament to tell us two or three words, here you are, push on, and I'm going, I have a responsibility, big state affairs are waiting for me. And whether hundreds of companies in Serbia will fail if we increase VAT, so explain to us, be happy, coffee taxes decrease, and oil and oil derivatives grow, and the role of coffee is so minor compared to this second. It's an extraordinary story. Please, from the ruling coalition, understand, people, there is a serious situation in the state. Don't behave lightly. Don't just vote. How you will go to Serbia, to places in Serbia where tomorrow's peasant will fail, there will be no more shelters, there will be no cows to milk. You see what it's all about, no meat production, no eggs, it's all gone. We'll have foreign goods coming in and, I said, a built-up street. Here's what the Shiplars have introduced. Our goods can't go to Kosovo. Montenegrins say no goods from Serbia can. We can do anything. That's why we're falling apart, and our ministers get titles and tell them -- just push, destroy that poor and unhappy Serbia, and they're just competing who's going to crush it more. It's too unserious, really, please get serious and think about how you're going to go in front of that people, how you look him in the eye, there's going to be more election campaigns, you're representatives of the people, MPs. Let's keep the ministers who are out of control, call them here and tell them - gentlemen, you can't do that, you have to respect the Constitution, the law, your country, and not this way. So think about it a little bit. Don't just raise your hand, don't just vote and listen to parties and party discipline. Please also the president of Serbia, he takes care of everything. Here, today, a letter was sent to me from the Association of Doves of Serbia and asked me to tell him that if I see Boris Tadic somewhere, they have a problem with pigeons' underpants, high-flyers, etc., they say, the only one who can solve it after he has solved the tracks and everything else. You know, people write well, we've complained everywhere, only Boris Tadic can, since he's an expert on everything. They asked me to tell Mr. Shaper, I don't know what that means, maybe you'll remember, he says -- the stew when a lot of salt gets dirty, disgusting. They wrote that to me in the end, because he had a lot of salt on this in these media that everything was going, that everything was honey and milk, that everything worked well, etc. It's not right, it's very dangerous to do that. Therefore, I ask you to understand that these vermin from the government are being removed as soon as possible and that these unreasonable decisions, such as those on the agenda, are being removed from the agenda, to show Parliament's dignity and to say -- this is what the Serbian Parliament did not want to accept. Of course, these days, you know what the people say, our geniuses, our genius, our great leader, remembered to let in his media, into "Blach," to take care of the state, so he says, "It doesn't take 250 MPs, 150 is enough and the people are thinking how thrifty a man is." A million euros will be saved. He's the same government with 28 ministries. You've seen, one cabinet has 40 men. The largest government in Serbia's history. But the great government needs a big, big, we don't know half the ministers, here I don't think half the MPs here know how to count half the ministers. Why? There's so many of them that they're just defiling here. You see, now we've become like a bus stop, ministers passing by, never mind, a man of faith comes to talk about excise duties, customs duties, taxes. That Kalanović girl, I don't know what she's doing there, she's running, she's giving a lecture, the one from the spatial planning comes in, she's staying a little while and she's gone. I was expecting the minister of the diaspora to come sit down, hang around the assembly, but fortunately, he's gone, maybe he'll come tomorrow. Therefore, gentlemen, the situation is very serious, our village is failing, the subsidies for agriculture are gone, we can't withstand a race with developed countries that give big subsidies to peasants, we can't do anything with our commercial loans to agriculture. We're going down, we're falling apart, and our people are getting world confessions. That's extreme hypocrisy. How come we don't get it, instead of someone saying "you're not ashamed to go get it -- best minister of the world"? Imagine, Russia, Sweden, America, they don't, and we do. That's why we have the biggest problem. I can't figure out that the world's best finance minister can't figure out that we legalize Montenegrin plates and fill the budget every year with 40m euros, as much as we give to Montenegrins for car registration. They drive cars here, and through some wild insurance agencies, they register in Montenegro. Here, in four years 160m euros we donated to Montenegro, and most of that car registration goes to local roads. What would it mean in Serbia if our municipalities had received some funds and made local roads? Not that a man, interested, principled, will not hear that Montenegrin cars register, are legalized here, but we keep the issue open. A lot of questions are open. Not to mention the reservers, these bad guys from the Belgrade Robing Houses, who winters here across the hall, not to talk about actions, no one should mention it, because the minister can get angry with us. Imagine if the best finance minister in the world gets angry and goes into that world, and we're out of it. Where is this poor Serbia going then? Don't make him angry. Therefore, please, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, take this very seriously and take this together on the agenda or at least accept these amendments, to slightly improve this law, at least to keep our damage as little as possible. Do something, don't participate in this, and keep your eyes on it. Watching the violation of what is not in the interest of the people is a crime against your people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12319	Mr. Shami, by amendment, you've got five minutes to go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12320	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I just called to say that something Mr. Ilic said doesn't agree. Namely, he questioned the presence of a minister -- a minister of faith, otherwise my good friend Šijakovic. On the contrary, I think it's the real minister for this topic, because when you read this law, you can only cross it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12321	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12322	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, first of all, I should take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate all those who celebrate today's holiday and wish for success in life and work. When it comes to amendments, I would like to inform you that the Government accepts the amendment of the Finance Committee and thanks to the MP and members of the Finance Committee for the technical preparation of Article 2(2). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12323	I hereby conclude the examination of the proposal for a law supplementing the Customs Tariff Act in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Tax on IMPROVAL (single) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Natasa Jovanovic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Milan Škrbić, Aleksandar Martinović, Dejan Mirović, Zlata Djerić, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta and Dragan Stevanovic. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment that she submitted to Article 3. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is for Miss Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12324	Mr. Shijakovic, and with God's help, you won't understand what I'm going to tell you now about this property tax law, and Mr. Secretary of State has come out, so I have to address the MPs, and to say that I am extremely dissatisfied with this general, I would say by the government of the Republic of Serbia. You certainly did not participate in this, in writing such an explanation for the refusal of amendments that I submitted to Article 2 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. Now I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, that for some time, which is behind us, brings us all a certain experience, whether it's a law-making, active multi-decade or multi-year work in the legislative area, or a government in local self-government, where all political parties in Serbia have an opportunity to do it actively, and then you have to turn behind you, to see and to say, if it's been some period of a few years: this was good, this isn't. As in life, each of us draws a line and draws conclusions. Those who, Mr. Shijakovic, swore at temples, in churches, put their hands on the Gospels that they would respect both ideology and discipline and the highest moral value, see what they did to us. Of course, you would never do that, so as a man who has no insight into this bill, which is the basis for filling the budget, congratulated the Serbian New Year and glory on all those who celebrate today in Serbia, but you will not interfere with these details that you do not know much about. We need to know everything, no matter what we do or do, and now we're committed to this work. The MP must know absolutely everything about every law, especially that he knows about what local self-government is. Because if you don't know how to charge the budget of the local self-government units, where the money is spent, that's the first dinar to be taken out of the taxpayers' pocket in the middle of your lives, how to finance your trip, the waterway, the sewerage, how to operate public enterprises, social contributions, what will that someone in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do? Then the question arises, so I have amnested you out of responsibility, so how is one minister, who is a minister for some restor, not knowing all this, when must the MP know this, and you are a representative of the executive government? You can't say now: I don't care about environmentalism or I don't care about health care, because there you follow everything and decide, by raising your hands, about making and putting on the agenda of certain laws. What is now on the agenda, the property tax law is one of the basic incomes of local self-government units, i.e. from the law on the financing of local self-government units. The total property tax belongs to local self-government and depending on how much territory, how many residents live, how many assets are reported and whose market value is calculated, thus filling the budget of the units of local self-government. I will tell you, Mr. Šijakovic, that through one amendment to the law, it is a mandatory unit of local self-government that by the end of 2008, the one behind us, each establishes the tax administration department of the local self-government unit, precisely because this whole property tax goes directly to the city's budget, i.e. the municipality. A lot of people haven't been able to do that. I'll tell you why. When former Finance Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, and former Minister Mladjan Dinkic, when in the implementation of this law, first of all, made rules on how to do so, and now it has come to Diana Dragutinovic, units of local self-government, and especially where they are not in the power of DS and G17 plus, they have not received either basic technical conditions or the possibility of being timely and in accordance with the systematisation, and regulation and, above all, with the help of the state, establishing an authority of the tax administration at local self-government. Those who are responsible, who have the responsible presidents of the municipalities, today I will give an example, although there are many, it is the Arangelovac. The president of the municipality, the Serbian Radical, Dr Radosav Svabic, founded the tax administration department on time, as soon as the law came into force. By all parameters, Mr. Ilic can tell you whether it is true or not, since recently one consultation was held, and also by what he has, by their way of work, by the degree of charging and by functionality, the tax administration department in Arangelovac, and at whose head is also one of the better legal experts, and this is Mr. Ljubisa Mladenovic, who has been in office since the department was founded, is one of the best departments of the tax administration in Serbia. Through this property tax law, you can see if anyone has justified it, I'm going back to the beginning of the story, the establishment of a tax administration, and whether the task the state has entrusted him with is right. In this case, I will tell you, the municipality of Arangelovac, since Mr. Mladenovic was head of the tax administration, since it worked, the level of charging has increased by 43%. Not because the people who do it on the ground and because we have not known what methods, the law is law, it is respected, but because of the efficiency and mode of work and that the citizens know that by paying our people, even though they are poor, the people in Arangelovac are poor, there is a destroyed economy and a lot of unemployed, and from our oldest pensioners, always go from it, those who have the least will first pay all taxes, and taxes, and electricity, and utility, and electricity, and what remains to eat, bread and water, as they say, people barely survive. They're responsible for that. This degree of payability has been increased so much that this is a direct consequence of well-organized work and above all increased awareness among people that the decentralisation of local self-government, that I have not been listening here to any hollow and empty stories for 18 years, will be done in such a way that economic efficiency and every dinar that this city and the municipality has the right to use and in this sense is not dependent on the Republic. However, this law, which now belongs to the local self-government, also has great shortcomings, i.e. during the rule of Zoran Djindjic, i.e. the first government after October 5th, has been lifted from the obligation that local self-government from property tax, which at that time did not belong to local self-government, stands out 0.5%, up to 1.5% or 2%, you do not know it, and Mr Ilic also cannot answer me, one of the colleagues who either exercise power or remember it, for solid housing. Now it's left to local self-government under the Law of Local Self-Government, so whoever wants to, will. You now have cities in Serbia where there is no work at all on this matter. You've got a lot of people living with a couple of little kids who don't have a roof over their heads. One single municipality apartment doesn't stand out and build in a year. You have a case of full tycounisation and abuse in Belgrade, and not to mention that time from the 1990s and some years, is that right, colleague Vukicevic, and you know very well because you later worked as a cultural representative in the city administration and how the apartments were shared. Many allegedly deserved citizens of Belgrade, so here you have a list of some of your colleagues who were either statisticians or were supporters of DS and other parties in power, so they got apartments as deserved citizens of Belgrade. What are we proposing now, since it is already such a situation, and we are seriously based on the experience of these people, such as Mr. Mladenovic, the Tax Administration of Leskovec or Čačka and other cities, from Surdula, where, too, without the help of the state during the term of office of Dr. Stanislav Momčilović, the established tax administration department in Surdulica, what did we want to say? It is not right that the original income of local self-government units is misused by the restoring ministry and that local self-government cannot determine the market value itself and the way it will calculate depreciation for property-based objects due to the fact that the regulation, which now exists and changes, because the law says the minister determines, is now Diana Dragutinovic, is calculated in a way that is unfair and in which he takes the dinar, i.e. basic income from local self-government. As the total sum of one facility's accounts are made, the value of the property tax is calculated. There are four elements. That's why I'm not satisfied with the government's response, because the government is telling me that I've only considered one in the amendment, and that's market value. No, we know very well that the average market price, which is not determined by local self-government, but also by the Republic Public Revenue Administration and the Republic Statistics Institute, is multiplied by the surface, times the quality coefficient, then the location coefficient. Later, counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic will specifically talk about the quality of the location, i.e. that every square meter should be determined by local self-government, or on a city council proposal, because it is the original income of local self-government. If that is the case, Mr. Ilic and you, too, to tell Mr. Minister, if many buildings in cities across Serbia, especially in the city's most important core, have changed the purpose of the residential building, that they were some bedrooms, kitchens or whatever, if they have an exit to the street, or an attractive place, where an action can be opened, some business space, then it was not logical to accept the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that says - everything remains the same, just adding this new attitude that reads, depreciation starts to run from the day of construction of the facility, i.e. from the day of its last reconstruction or adaptation. This fully fits into these four elements on which I just said that pattern, calculated and how the total amount is reached. If an object is built between two world wars, if and now all that is calculated, one and a half to 70 percent is taken for depreciation, by the age of an object for each year. But if one is made, I don't know what year, in the meantime, completely changed his purpose and now it's not a housing facility anymore, but as you admit in your explanation, something that has a whole new market value, why not fit into the property tax law and do it that way. You didn't want to listen to what the people you trusted with the law, the state told them to do the job, see and see it as an irregularity. After all, it is unfair to those citizens who do not live in such attractive locations, who pay the same tax as they do, meaning by this method of calculation, which in the meantime acquired conditions -- and we have nothing against it, we advocate a rich society, for people to practice, to work -- but that those who have that income can pay for it. That wouldn't be I don't know how much more tax, but it would be fairer and would be higher incomes. I don't have time, but it really takes who knows how many hours to tell you what all the abuses are and what our people would say is an archeological asset in the town of Kragujevac from property tax. The budget of the town of Kragujevac, Mr. Shijakovic, is seven billion 930 million 480 thousand for the year 2009 projected. It's this property tax conto, 713-120, so it's run, 230 million dinars are expected and these are the planned incomes of property tax in the town of Kragujevac. Do you think that these people who pay a regular tax, I don't know the degree of charging because I can't get to that data, because this Stevanović and his guy here, as he said here today, weird fiction or I don't already know what, he hides it like a snake's legs, so that tax is done for purposes, like all the other taxes, to build a road, a waterway, a sewerage, residential facilities, apartments of solidarity. Here, not only am I talking, the other day Velimir Ilic mentioned it, as it comes to visit his party and Dr Vučićevic, in the middle of the town of Kragujevac, you know, on the other side of Lepenica, I used to live as a child on the other side and that's a nice end of town, there goes the fecal sewerage into that word, or river that used to be famous in the song, and that's just one ordinary stream. What are we talking about? A man washes money, makes all kinds of combinations, this Stevanovic, who is still an MP here, and it can't be by the letter of the Constitution, in one street in Kragujevac, in the pedestrian zone three times in two terms changes the concrete of the board, raises one, places the others. Do you think he's doing it because he thinks these are more beautiful? No, but for the commission, for the kidnapping, for the robbery. From "Fiyat" nothing, money is spent, one million euros on city television, so many problems, people live in impossible conditions, and they pay property tax, and you do not accept these amendments, which are extremely high quality, to improve the financing of local self-government, so that the lives of citizens, in cities where they live, will be better. I'm sorry, Madam President, that I've exceeded my time, but I think this was useful information, and even for a minister whose portfolio is not, in the end, he's a citizen of Belgrade, and he's paying his property tax, and he probably expects his competent municipality to do something about it, but how difficult these yellows are in power here, Mr. Shijakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12325	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? On Article 2 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is wanted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, surely we can't be thrilled that this often, when we talk about budget laws, the ministers here change one by one. It's probably some kind of education that we have ministers of general practice, that the prime minister sends all the ministers to get acquainted with these things. This kind of flying thing sure can only be seen in one sport, it's called hockey, when we have one, the other, the third lineup, but that's it. That should be considered by whoever decides who will represent the government here when we talk about very important laws, such as these laws on the agenda, today in particular in particular. I filed an amendment in front of the NS parliamentary group. In Article 2, I thought it was necessary to change attitude 3 so that it reads: For immovable property built, or acquired during the year, for which property tax is determined and paid, the tax base is the market value of the corresponding immovableity, the law says ''on the day of 31 December of the year preceding the year for which the property tax is determined'', and I think it is necessary to change it and that, instead of '31 December', it should stand for 'the day of the sales contract in court'. The explanation of why this amendment is not accepted is that there is a concern that there will be a simulation of the contract, that it is something that can lead to some simple discrepancies when paying taxes. I don't think that's the way it is. The reason here is that there are other ways to acquire other than a purchase contract, originals, etc. and someone else. However, my amendment specifically refers to a sales contract. I don't know who explained this part of why the amendment isn't accepted, but it can't stand and can't be acceptable to me as the applicant of this amendment, and I don't think that's good. What does that mean? If a man here clearly stands here during the year, once again to specify, the immovableities built, so we're not talking about the immovableities that someone has acquired on the basis of a court ruling or a leaven solution, we all know that such means of acquiring property are possible, that simply in the case of a leaven solution from a father to a son, there is no tax on the transfer of absolute rights. There is a tax on property, for example, a leaver established and there is no need now to re-establish some market value. So, my particular point is that this is about apartments, so people who bought apartments during construction. It's clearly in the law. It is completely unnatural for someone who paid the price of the apartment in January, say, 800 euros, at the end of the year to be faced with having to pay, say, 1,100 euros per square, because someone estimated it. Who's here to count? The damage is the man who bought it and calculated his options at 800 euros per square. So he can't be the victim of something called a market value assessment. That's why I've submitted the amendment, and I think it's an over-the-counter deed to everything. So it's acquired some right, it's simply at that point, and it's a binding property tax code. If some have feared that the state will be damaged by simulated contracts, some state is chasing those people who are doing such a simulation, there are inspection bodies, but it is unnatural for people who in today's era, say, to raise huge loans to get to the apartment, with very unfavourable interest, especially now that the euro course is extremely unstable, and the clauses are tied to the euro, so there is a complete uncertainty in these people who buy immobilities. Which is why this amendment has not been accepted, I really don't understand, because I think there was absolutely room to be accepted. Of course, someone might wonder what we're going to do if the price accidentally drops over the year, let's say from 800 to 600 euros. We won't do anything. The one who made a commitment at that time is that market value at the time of the conclusion of the sale agreement and what is wrong with it. Here's a concrete example, but in this country it's very rare that something cheap, it's almost impossible, regardless of what real estate prices all over the world are going down, and in Serbia, of course, no one gives up enormous profits, everyone wants to make money. We saw a few days ago in that energy crisis that oil radiators were sold instead of for 3,500 dinars, what the price in Novi Sad is for 5,000 dinars. Then the mayor of Novi Sad comes out and when a concrete reporter asks him what he will do as mayor to sanction such people who use the torment of citizens, he simply skipped over the topic and went completely to another topic. Of course, it's not the only way when prices don't drop. Has anyone in this country asked the question that this summer we had a double, Mr. Secretary of State, oil prices relative to now, did anyone from the state ask the car transporters if someone dropped the transport price? What's the answer? They didn't lower the price. So they didn't drop the prices and the state still doesn't advertise there. So, when oil companies collect, faster or better autocars come in, they file demands, and the state comes out to meet. What about those people who have two, three or four children at school in suburban settlements and pay monthly tickets for children in schools, students or those workers who have to come to work? They're damaged, they're paying for something that's completely unfounded. It's not so small, it's at this double price of at least 1,000 dinars, which is extremely dangerous to these citizens' budgets, not to mention individual manufacturers who have to produce their products on buses from mountain destinations to get to cities to sell them. So, Mr. Ilic, I tried to tell you that the state must take care of it in relations, as I have now explained. They can't just raise prices, and when something happens like this, which is basically good, that the price of oil falls, that the prices remain the same. That can't be cheap. Of course, prices for other products that were delivered to cities are the same, and if the price of buses and these tickets were reduced, then the prices of the product would probably be reduced. Therefore, I do not know how the concern in the explanation that 'the regulation of the base of property tax on these immovableities in the way proposed by the amendment would just lead to an irregularity of the property tax base, first of all, for the reason that the law which is subject to taxation can be obtained by legal means', and then it is said to be unreally established, and first of all when it comes to legal transactions. I don't see why someone who does simulated legal work wouldn't be punished, he's covering something up, but we can't, on the basis of such a flat-rate claim, punish people who have severed their suffering, for example. Credits, they want to buy an apartment, they want you to set up your family. Of course, taxes on absolute rights, we go from 5% to 2.5%. New Serbia's MPs will propose an amendment to make it 1.5%. So we have to through this way of real taxation, through a tax rate of 1.5% to protect citizens from enormously expensive loans, very unfavourable loans, mostly. The banks are profiting enormously. What's gonna happen at some point? If we charge them with one, the second and the third taxes, there is simply a great danger, as I said, a leap in the course and foreign exchange clauses that are in these loans, that people, let's say, the wars that have so far been 24,000 dinars, are now 35,000 dinars, and the salaries and receipts remain the same. So, I think the buy-over day is real. If we want to go to this Europe, if we want to behave marketly, we simply have to get rid of it that someone is constantly doing something simulated in this country. Of course, like I said, who uses those simulations should answer. I don't know what it's like to be able to simulate contracts, because buying these apartments is currently going through these companies' accounts. If these companies are paid by hand, they have to be paid into account. So, I don't know how anyone, if you think they're gonna buy an apartment for 400 euros, and the difference is, I'm not really good at it. Those unreal prices are easy to catch. You can't double-step. A slight deviation is possible, but through this, if you buy, let's say, 800 euros, and you sell 1,000, and then you tax 1,100 or 1,200 euros, that's where, in my opinion, the country's wealth is based. How are you going to stop these people from doing an estimate not to do any damage to these customers? Therefore, I think the amendment is logical and this should have been accepted. However, as is often the case, some things are not accepted, even though what is sought is fully justified.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12327	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Amendment to which a new Article 2a is added after Article 2. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted a national letter. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on property taxes, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 2a, as referred to in Article 6, be added after Article 2. The property tax law. Article 6(1) reads - "The market value of the immovableity referred to in Article 5 of this Act is determined by applying basic and corrective elements. ''Stav 2 - ''The basic elements are: 1) useful surface; 2) the average market price of square meter corresponding immovableity in the territory of the municipality. ''Stav 3 - ''corrective elements are: 1) location of immovableity; 2) quality of immovableity; 3) other elements affecting the market value of immovableity. ''I have proposed to the amendment that paragraphs 4 and 5 be added after Article 3. Item 4 reads - ''The average market price of square meter referred to in point 2) of the position of the 2nd member shall be determined in particular for each municipality by a decision taken by the municipality on a proposal from the municipal council, and on the basis of the information of the competent tax administration and published. ''Stab 5-'''The decision of the Article 4 item shall be taken every three years and shall contain a description of the methodology used to determine the market price of the square metre. ''The purpose of this amendment is to regulate the law that a decision on the average market price of a square metre corresponding immovableity on the territory of the municipality is made by local self-government authorities. The draft law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act proposed to Article 2 to amend Article 5 of the Law by regulating that the level of the market value of the immovable property, instead of the tax authority, is determined by the authority of the unit of local self-government in charge of determining, collecting and controlling the original income of local self-government units. The SRS considers that, even when establishing the average market price of a square metre of adequate immovableity in the territory of the municipality, the competence of the local self-government authority should be specified. For the purpose of fiscal decentralisation, the 2006 Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government, Article 60, has been regulated to establish, charge and control the public revenues of Article 6 of the same law starting on 1 January 2007. Among the original revenues achieved in the territory of the unit of local self-government is the property tax, except for the tax on the transfer of absolute rights and inheritance taxes and gifts. The basis of the taxation of assets is market value and is determined by the application of basic and corrective elements. The average market price of the square metre is the basic element. Therefore, the seriousness of its determination should be shown, and therefore we ask that the proposal on the average price of a square meter be made by the local tax administration, that the municipal council be declared and eventually adopted by the municipality. Why does this matter? There is an objective problem, which is reflected in the fact that market prices are mostly known in the facilities sold shortly ago, so the formation is based on them. Data on average real estate prices can be obtained from construction firms on the territory of a specific municipality. Currently, there is a possibility that municipalities that do not have such data can contact the Tax Administration and the Republic Statistics Office. However, the data they receive do not constitute a real basis, so citizens are put into a situation to pay a lower or higher amount of tax, and local self-government itself is either in a position to deny the works of its income or to take more money from its citizens than it should. In order to ensure transparency of the work of the local tax administration, the amendment further proposed that the decision on the average market price of the square metre be published. This decision must also contain a description of the methodology used to determine the average market price of the square metre. This is necessary because it is the money of citizens, taxpayers, who need to be informed why they give just as much money and how that price came to pass. The Government has decided to reject this amendment with a broader explanation, which I will read - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 6 of the Law regulates the market value of the immovableity contained in Article 5 of the Law, which forms the basis of the property tax, which is one of the basic elements of the property tax, which is in accordance with Article 2(2). The law on public revenue and public expenditure, according to which tax incentives, exemptions, reliefs, tax credits and others, as well as other elements of the system and public revenue policy established under that law can only be introduced by laws introducing appropriate public revenues. Therefore, although it is in line with the provisions of Articles 6 and 60. The law on the financing of local self-government, in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, is to determine, charge and control property tax. The establishment of a tax base shall be carried out through the application of the law and the sublegal act, which shall be adopted by the Minister responsible for Finance Affairs, on the basis of the powers laid down in Article 9. The property tax law, which means rules that are uniformly applied in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which are governed by basic and corrective elements for the establishment of a tax base. It is noted that the average market value of the square metre of the facility is the average of the prices achieved in transport, with the compensation for the appropriate type of new facilities for which the facility was carried out in the municipality, or the city in which the facility was carried out with a fee in the year for which the tax on property was established and paid, according to the data of the Republic's statistical authority, Article 4(1). Rules on how to determine the basis of the property tax on fixed property rights. Based on this argument, we conclude that there is no will in the government to complete the fiscal decentralisation process. In 2006, when the law on the financing of local self-government regulated the responsibility of the local self-government unit to determine, collect and control public revenues, including the property tax, it left the Republic with jurisdiction to collect income from taxes on the transfer of absolute rights and inheritance taxes and gifts. This tax continues to be charged by the Republic Public Revenue Administration. The Government now remains in the jurisdiction of the Republic to determine the average market value of the square metre facility. All arguments are on the side of the local self-government unit, but the government says so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12329	Anyone else want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Time available to the SRS parliamentary group for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not know why the Government did not accept the amendment of Ms Lidija Dimitrijevic's MP, given that the amendment only specifies the things already proposed in the law. When you look at the explanation, then you see exactly why the amendment is not accepted. Mrs Dimitrijevic has just said for a moment that the government is trying to decentralise fiscal incomes, and in fact still holds all the dysgines in its hands. When you look at the third page of the second part of the argument, it says, therefore, although it is in line with the provisions of Articles 6 and 60. The law on the financing of local self-government, the "Official Journal" number and that, under the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, is to determine, charge and control the property tax, determine tax relief, and the establishment of tax relief is carried out through the application of the law and the sub-legal act adopted by the minister in charge of finance operations on the basis of the powers laid down in Article 9. etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is already the second and third term in Leskovac, where Mrs Dimitrijevic, otherwise involved in local self-government, exercises power and knows very well all the problems and all the opportunities and all the reliefs that could in this case be applied. A little while ago, Miss Natasa Jovanovic said what the case was like for Arangelovci. You, gentlemen of the government, don't let go of the dysgins, especially don't let go of that minister whom Mr. Velimir Ilic has praised so well for a while. The funds shall not be dropped. You'd still be controlling, still, and if you left the local self-government to the end part of the tax revenue, you'd still be determining. And you forget that the square meter in Leskovac, in Arangelovac, in Belgrade cannot possibly be the same value, and you know very well that the price of a square meter and how at certain intervals, depending on supply and demand, can be bloated to unsuspecting proportions or falls if the offer is higher. I think the amendment should be accepted and I think this one, anyway, would at least improve a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12331	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Amendment to which a new Article 2a is added after Article 2. National MP Milan Škrbić submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, Mr. Minister, for the sake of the public, I need to tell you, that it doesn't turn out to be forced and we're writing amendments that don't matter, that we did it all on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I used that right and I filed on behalf of the SRS Group the amendment to the Amendment Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. The amendment reads that a new Article 2a is added after Article 2. which is - in Article 7(1) of the statement "is the five-fold amount of annual cadastrian land income according to the latest data of the catastra business organisation on 31 December preceding the year for which the property tax is determined and paid" is replaced by the words "exports 50% of the market value of the immovable property that would be obtained in the process of determining the tax on the transfer of absolute rights". My argument is very simple, and this is also the explanation of the SRS parliamentary group, which believes that, based on the tax department's initiatives on the ground, local self-government should be given the opportunity to determine the average price of the square meter itself, which would be natural, because it is now local income. The fact is that we don't have properly registered property, and we should have it, because of this law, and that would make it easier for local self-government units to process data and contribute to increasing the budget of local self-government units. It is evident in the case of the municipality from which I come from, the municipality of Apatin, that there is a lot of problems with the data on land. These data that I'm about to present now are data from the Catastrian Service, and for many years now, no one has thought about it, although I've mentioned it many times after this pay phone. No one reacted, and the problem is big. The Apatin Real estate cadastre has five catastrian municipalities in its jurisdiction, both Apatin, Kukusin, Sonta, Prigrevica and Svilojevo. The service has no technical data on the coordinates of the current state border, but only the coordinates of the Catastrian Municipality of Apatin in the state co-ordination system, and for the other four catastrian municipalities only a stereographic projection without numerical data. The Kastastar municipalities of Apatin, Kukusin and Sonta, with their cadastrian borders, go to the Danube River as a natural border with the Republic of Croatia. An example of the Catastrian Municipality of Apatin was made in 1969, and this established the limit of this cadastrian municipality by the record of the restriction of the Catastrian municipality and in our records all the immovableities identified within the border. This is important precisely for the sake of this law, so that it can be recorded and the property tax could be charged. What's going on? We have no record of whether this border of the Catastrian municipality coincides with the current official borders of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. The border of the Katastrian municipality of Apatin is taking place in the Danube along its entire length, except in the northwestern part, where there is an entry of the border of the catastrian municipality from the Danube River into the left bank, a coast belonging to Serbia. The sketch I have on me shows that the southwest part of the so-called. The Katastrian municipality of Kukusin does not go entirely through its catastrian border on the Danube River. I can safely argue, compared to the current Danube stream, that there is land in the area of 980 hectares of land located on the left side of the Danube River, the so-called Dragon movement, which is in charge of the municipality of the White monastery - Republic of Croatia. Then, the Katastrian Municipality of Dragon 2 in the Republic of Croatia, which is owned by our owners, mainly from the Catastrian municipality of Apatin and Kukusin. Now follow what I couldn't believe when I came up with this data that I just brought out. Other knowledge about the area and location of land compared to the current Danube flow as a natural border, from the records we have, and related to the state border with the Republic of Croatia, we do not have, especially because the new diameter and diameter of the Katastrian municipality of Sonta and Kukusin was not made and used the old, Austro-Hungarian graphic diameter in the stereographic projection of 1880, and we have no information on the officially established coordinates of the state border. It's 980 acres of land, where there are many weekend settlements, where people live and have electricity, and nobody gets paid. Only in that part would be major revenues to local self-government units, and they have been doing so since January 1st and big income is only in that part, increasing the budget of local self-government units. Not to mention other things that are present in all municipalities. Let me just point out, about this famous privatisation of our last eight years, where the state has been damaged by selling off property, which is mobile, which is immobilized. Countless cases have been recorded, but no one is responding, either this one or the previous government. The state itself has transferred the business to local self-government units, which will not be easy to record and collect that part of the property tax, and what is easier, which is no problem with citizens, has no fight with citizens, it has kept this law to itself. I'm going to give another example, to take this time, where the problems are, and where the actual original incomes go, and they can't be charged in real terms, and these are the following cases. The problems encountered by the employee-owner in privatisation companies, which have been sold for indemnity along with property, mobile and immovable, and there is no accurate value information there, and this will be very difficult for local self-government to record, to argue with tycoons, and in every city there are. Because these same new owners force workers and employees to give up earned and unpaid earnings, even during preprivatization periods. These problems have clearly resulted in lawsuits by works of employees who did not agree to the blackmail of owners. They repeat that the second part of the outstanding amount is forgiven, is not registered and that local administrations cannot collect that part of the tax. There's a lot of examples, where there's been the formation of a new firm inside that privatized, same boss. In the same space, with the same machines used by that owner, he made sure to provide a lease contract with himself, and I note that the owner had set the price and terms of the lease and did not respect those conditions. And nothing to anyone again. A major problem will be the tax on property and income in local self-government units precisely because of many unsettled items, and the law said it must be applied from January 1st this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12333	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic. The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12334	Dear People's MPs, these amendments to the MPs of the SRS are, above all, meaningful. The only reason the government rejects them is because they come from the SRS parliamentary group. We have heard here from MPs who have spoken of amendments so far, from Miss Natasa Jovanovic, from Lidija Dimitrijevic and Milan Škrbić, a lot of things meaningful and justified. We wanted to show you why you should accept these amendments. As you have heard, there are still, fortunately, municipalities in Serbia where in power the members of the SRS, where Serbian radicals have succeeded, with great pains, but have managed to form power and respect the will of citizens in certain municipalities. Namely, I come from the Odzaki municipality, where Serbian radicals exercise power in the second term. The fact that we exercised power and thought of our citizens in the Odzac municipality in the first term, when we had 32% of the votes, is in favour of getting 45% of the votes at all levels in these elections. This is proof that, above all, it thinks about the interests of citizens of its municipality, for which every political municipality has stood up and promised before the elections that it will exercise power and think about the interests of citizens. In the municipality of Odzac, there are 18 nationalities, which is why the SRS has received this much trust from its citizens. We are one of the municipalities that introduced the local tax administration, where the budget after that is far better for us, when it comes to these items, fills in, with a correct relationship with its citizens. We're the community that founded the Youth Office. We are the first municipality in Serbia to establish the Roma office. We are a municipality that provides free legal assistance to its citizens, and about the infrastructure, when the local communities and the city of Odzacs are at stake, we are in the capacity of local self-government and how much our modest budget allows us to do and do for our citizens. We have finished the local road of Karavukovo - Bogojevo, which is now regional. We've done public lighting in every place in the Odjaks municipality. Unfortunately, we too have been caught by the accident of this devastating privatisation, where many workers have lost our jobs. Unfortunately, however, local self-government in the part cannot affect the level at which it should be. We helped as many companies as we could. We paid them to start a bankruptcy procedure. However, what is the basis of our municipality is agriculture. We had this accident that cooperatives were being sold to us, maltenes for a sherpe of fish, and those owners who bought cooperatives had reselled cooperatives for enormously large figures after a few years, crossing even tens of millions of euros. We're going to try to help these people in some way, because we all know how cooperatives were founded, starting with colonization 46, where people introduced and gave land to cooperatives, to start a working relationship. Later, even the state - country cooperatives signed off on permanent ownership of themselves. However, we heard a lot here from Mr. Peter Jojic who followed that part and we found in the law where the mornings could not be brought in in such a way that they could be betrayed only for the ponds. In our case, it was done to bring in the intentions, which I think is a big mistake, and that many people are out of a job. I'll just tell you one thing, three cooperatives that were privatized worked by 1,200 workers, and today it's doing a little more than 300 workers, unfortunately. I hope the agriculture laws come here on the agenda, when we can talk a lot more about agriculture and bring it all to light. Sir, since you are interested, these were pastures, and the commission in which it was responsible decided that the land had been brought in for purposes and then translated into permanent ownership of the association, which was sold not to our tycoon, but to the Croatian tycoon for 13m euros, and was bought for slightly less than a million euros. 350 people worked in that community, and today it's 50. They say that since the crisis is announced, as announced this year, there will be no more than 25 to 30 workers until harvest. As part of the cooperative, there was a farm that had about 400 milk cows, hundreds of heroes in it. There aren't any cattle in that community today. All objects are collapsing. He's supposed to invest in these facilities. That's the story, what our people would say - drop your donkey to the green grass, and our people are on the street. A special story is the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund when it comes to local self-government. That's what I'm saying because in the Ojac municipality, since Serbian radicals are in power, we know it's one big boycott, we get the money just on the spoon. I'm taking the opportunity to ask you a question, is there any record of Bojan Pajtic spending that money from the Autonomous Region Fund of Vojvodina on capital investments? The final decision on the allocation of these funds is 2,677,000. The Odzaci municipality has received 34 million, and we have projects, and it's quality projects, I'm telling you, responsiblely, for about three billion dinars. Bruca and shame. In order not to abuse time, we will have more opportunities to talk about this, it will certainly be presented to you by the MPs of the SRS, especially honestly and honestly, and in the interests of the citizens and the environment from which we come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12335	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12336	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, when the principle debate on the proposal for the 2009 budget of the Republic of Serbia was held in due time, and to remind the citizens that the government, with a delay of more than a month, has submitted this draft budget to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, SRS MPs have indicated the fact that the burden of the global economic and financial crisis will mainly be brought down on the back of a small ordinary man, that the state will not do anything on its part to tighten the belt first and reduce public spending, to which not only the criticism comes from opposition parties. To reduce public spending, this government would be obliged to truly respect the recommendations of its international friends from the EU, the World Bank and the IMF. On the one hand, the state will do nothing to reduce public spending and thus make it easier for citizens to overcome the economic crisis, and on the other hand, it is clear from the measure of economic policy proposed by the Government that the burden of this crisis will be put on the backs of ordinary citizens. That this is really how it is seen from this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. The whole law is written with the ultimate intensity to protect those who are rich, and to put as much burden as possible on ordinary citizens, who are barely putting an end to the end these days and who are fighting for their naked existence, and some of those citizens who will be subject to this law for days to strike in front of the Serbian presidency, people who are employed in the Robing Houses and who are trying to fight for their naked existence. That's what I told you, Mr. Minister, in today's debate. Here, it's just enough to look at what it says at the beginning of the reasoning of the bill, why this law is passed, that is, what are the reasons for the law being passed. The main reason for the adoption of this law, i.e. the problem that the law needs to address, is to encourage the development of the capital market. I'm really not much of an economic expert, on the contrary, but I find it illogical that the property tax law encourages and develops the capital market. I guess some other measures of economic policy should encourage that. On the other hand, look at what it says - "in order to provide equal tax treatment for the transfer of securities from value and interest in legal person with compensation, with transfers carried out without compensation, inheritance and gift, it is proposed to exempt the paper from the value and interest in the legal person from the tax on inheritance and gift." It's enough to look at, Mr. Minister, how many citizens in the Republic of Serbia are in a position to inherit a stake in a legal person, probably in some company that gets a profit or someone to make a legacy or to inherit securities from the value of some revenue. If you look at the statistics, you will see that the number of such citizens on the one hand is not large, so the relatively small number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia through inheritance and gift gets stakes in the legal person, i.e. gain the right to securities of value, and on the other hand, the value of these charters, or the value of the stake in the legal person, can be extremely large and you fully exempt that part from taxation. It is clear that, first of all, you are going after those richer citizens of the Republic of Serbia, against whom, of course, I have nothing, but it is not fair, nor is it in the spirit of a fair social policy that in a time of great economic crisis, you are releasing that part of the population from tax obligations, and on the other hand, some other parts of the population you are burdening. If that were the case, Mr. Minister, you can also see from Article 2 of this basic law that is changing. He says the property tax is paid to the next fixed property rights, so he erases "the right to pruning". Ask your colleagues from the resolution ministries how many Serbian citizens are enjoying, i.e. some income on the basis of fertilization, not such a large number, but big revenues are coming. Ask how many Serbian citizens gain income based on the right to use time by sharing, a small number of Serbian citizens. But that's why all of these categories of citizens are exempt from paying real estate taxes. Then look at Article 13 paragraph 2 of the basic law. Look, Mr. Minister, a typical example of unfair social policy at a time of drastic economic crisis. See Article 13. What's deleted? It says - the tax on the rights laid down in Article 2 of this Act on a building or apartment in which a member of the family of the debtors is resident is reduced by 10% for a member of the family of the obligor and each member of his household, and up to 30% of the established tax. That, therefore, is deleted. This category of population is excluded from any tax charge. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means that a father or mother has an apartment that does not have to be large and that a member of their family lives in that apartment, such as a son, a daughter, a brother, a sister, and so on. According to the current legal solution, the tax is reduced by 10% for each family member and up to 30% for the established tax. Now it's erased. Here's how you burden ordinary citizens. What a special benefit an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who may have a small apartment and a close member of his family now lives in that apartment, has so far had such tax discharge, at least for the 10% and 30% respectively, you are now ending it. What good can a person who has an apartment with whom a member of his family benefit? He can only have some expenses, some expenses, absolutely no revenue whatsoever. Your colleague spins his head, he wonders what we Serbian radicals are saying, how is this government transferring the burden of the economic crisis to a small man? Don't be nervous, Mr. Ilich. You seem nervous. Don't throw it away, it's no big deal. Here, when I finish the presentation, I really believe that you are an economic expert, unlike me, but here we have today made a whole series of remarks and a proposal for a law supplementing the customs tariff law. We are now making objections to this property tax law. You sit there, you throw, you smile, you spin your head, you wonder what we're talking about, we don't know anything. You go out for this pay phone and explain how it is possible, Mr. Secretary of State, if I am not mistaken, to ease the state budget by 250m euros and to write in the Customs Tariff Bill, is not some big blow to the budget. What is 250m euros, what is it for rich, developed Serbia, where there are no poor, there are no hungry, there are no people strike outside the palace of the head of state, in front of the government, etc. What's 250 million euros? It's nothing. We're telling you now -- what you're burdening this little man who might have an apartment where a close member of his family lives, now you're turning your head, wondering, as we can say, etc. Mr. Secretary of State, it's clear, so reality disproves you. You can turn your head as much as you want and be angry, say you're wrong, get out of the National Assembly building, look left-right, look straight, there's the Presidency, you'll see that reality is quite different from what you think that reality is when you're being watched from the Ministerial Office and the Ministerial Office. You have found at a time of great economic crisis, at a time when people barely put an end to the end, at a time when the president of the state invites employees to stick to defend their jobs, to strengthen the capital market and the paper market from the value of the Property Tax Act. They're tax-free, but that's why you're cutting tax breaks off an ordinary man who owns an apartment where a member of his family lives. You release the tax liabilities of a person who earns a profit on the basis of sharing, based on fertilization. Is that just social policy? Is this the even distribution of the burden of the global economic and financial crisis on all citizens? It's not. What a direct benefit, Mr. Ilic, will have an ordinary man in Serbia because you unilaterally decided to apply the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU, so you reduced customs duties on imports of new cars produced in Europe or out of Europe from 20% to, if I'm not mistaken, 12.6%. What good will it do? The one who strikes these days in front of the presidency, in front of the government, these poor women who have had pneumonia fighting for their rights, they have so far been unable to buy cars with a 20% customs duty, or those with 12.6%. And even if you completely abolish customs, these people won't be able to buy a new car, not some foreign producer, domestic car, south, any other domestic car won't be able to buy just because they don't have basic living conditions. That's what we're pointing you at. It is not worth showing yourself to bigger Europeans than the Europeans themselves, it is impossible, it is simply not logically acceptable. There is a European Union, there is a Republic of Serbia that is not an EU member, so don't worry about European concerns, worry about Serbian concerns. You can't join the EU by force. You know, I can't become a member of the Serbian Academy of Science and Art if these people won't. I can say it a hundred times -- people, I want to be a member of the Serbian Academy, and they say you can't. That's what the EU tells you. You say we will, they say - but you cannot join the EU. I just don't know what else is going to happen so you realize that you are using these measures of economic policy primarily to damage the domestic economy and the ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia. That's what this is about. They have no justice, no even distribution of the burden of the economic crisis to all citizens. You have completely excluded the state from any form of public savings. The state will spend more than it spent last year. You have not abolished any ministries, none of the administration's bodies within the ministries, none of the agencies. Where did your promises of cutting wages in public enterprises come from, that compensation would be cut off for members of the boards of directors and supervisors? What happened to that? On the other hand, you are now removing some of the tax reliefs that Serbian citizens had, but that is why you are completely liberating that small part of Serbia's citizens who still gain a certain, not so small, receiving, either on the basis of the right to enjoy, or on the basis of the sharing, or on the basis of the legacy of the stake in the legal person, i.e. the heritage of the securities of value. It is not a fair social policy, on the contrary, one policy that aims to shift the whole burden of the economic crisis to the back of a small man. But that little man started to lift his head. You are in vain talking to him about the EU, cheaper foreign cars, white Schengen visas, education in the West, etc. That ordinary little man can't even buy our home products, let alone the sides. That's what this is about, Mr. Ilich. You can be nervous, angry, and think that we're wrong, but believe me, reality disproves you. I would really like to be wrong, to show reality worse than it is, but unfortunately, when you leave this building you will see that reality is even more difficult than the MPs of the SRS, or MPs of the opposition parties, show it. I draw your attention once again, to the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement, not only to damage the Republic of Serbia's budget, you will thus destroy domestic producers in the long term. Mr. Ilic, imagine, I repeat once again, I am no economic expert, put in the same ring and set to participate in a boxing match an ordinary man who has never pulled gloves on his hands and a professional boxer. This is the relationship between Serbia's economy and the EU's economy. It doesn't take a great expert to know in advance who's going to win. Of course he's gonna beat a professional boxer. You are now putting into the same plane of our domestic producers, without subsidies from the state, without any help, people who work with sticks and ropes, with powerful EU economic operators and say... (President: National MP, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. I'm sorry, I'll be done in a minute. ... Gentlemen, it's a free market, we've put you on the market, and you're on your own. That's not fair. Not only will you Cipherically damage Serbia's 250m budget, for who knows how many million euros you will damage Serbia and its economy by putting it in the same line with countries far richer than Serbia and whose economies are far more powerful than ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12337	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Dejan Mirovic and Zlata Djeric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12338	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment has been submitted to Article 14. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. So it's the part of the law that regulates the members from 11 to 15. In essence, it is the basis of the law itself, which, according to the draft law, is the basic reason for the adoption of this law, i.e. the problem that the law needs to address is to encourage the development of the capital market. As a result, it is proposed to exempt the transfer with the fees of securities from the value and interest in the legal person. It is also interesting that the legislator acknowledges that, as far as property tax is concerned, there are no binding EU rules requiring harmonisation. So, the law wasn't proposed because of the compliance with Aki Communitre, as was the case with most of the so-called. Brussels law. The above-mentioned facts should also be added: The bill, which is before us, is part of a package of laws or so on. Following budget laws, it is these seven laws, including the most important, unfortunately and most harmful, the change of customs tariffs law. The law, as is known, according to the NBS course from the time the budget entered the assembly procedure, leads to a loss of budget revenues of 260m euros, this is a minimum estimate. So, the first association would be, when this continent is seen, to reduce taxes, because a huge sum of 260m euros has been passed over to the back of the poorest citizens through the increase in excise duties, and that, on the other hand, there must be tax relief somewhere. This would be economically justified and socially responsible government behaviour. When we compare taxes that are increasing, it means excises or that will be increased according to government announcements - VAT, and these tax breaks provided for by the property tax law, we will see that it is a social, economic and state-owned demagogy, because one of the leading economists in our country, Mr. Curcin, told a weekly that only 10% of the total financial transactions in our country are on the market last year. So, the stock market is in our country, mildly said, undeveloped. That is why it is clear that the average citizen of our country will have no use for this tax code, or minimum. He struggles to survive, his primary concern is a consumer basket or its minimum amount. So instead of considering reducing taxes affecting the poorest layers of the population, such as VAT, tax incentives are directed towards the richest parts of the population. Otherwise, according to the author of the "public finance" textbook, used at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, Prof. Dr. Bozidar Raicevic, Serbia already has relatively low property tax rates, but on the other hand, the VAT rate of 18% is higher than in Spain, which is 16% or the UK, where it is 15%. I don't think anyone reasonable can claim that Serbia has more GDP than Spain or Britain or that it has a higher GDP per capita. Also, no one can argue that VAT hits the poorest layers of the population. There's no economic justification, except for demagogy, for a law like this. In economic theory, according to Professor Raičević, who is a regular professor at the Faculty of Economics and at the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics, the VAT has several significant shortcomings: increased administration and cost of collection and payment, relatively more pronounced inflation potential, incomparability of the introduction at a subcentral level and, most importantly, more aggressive. During the debate in principle, I presented a definition that shows how VAT works on the poorest layers. Of course, negative. The amendment was submitted in connection with another part of the definition, which reads: "Second segments of the economy - tourism and agriculture in particular, seek to convince economic policy makers of the necessity of introducing reduced or reduced VAT rates, in order to manage to maintain competitiveness and their position on the market. ''So, just now VAT hits the industries that can be our comparative advantage. Our industry can't handle Western Europe. After all, she's not in our home, our property. It's not good, and it should be said openly, especially when it's in the hands of foreign owners who only think about profit, as is the case with regard to Sartide. Now, because of the economic crisis created by the greed of Wall Street and the West, there is a recession in the industry. That's why U.S. "Steel" Serbia has, without any thought, shut down the furnace, because it thinks only of itself, not of the wider social goals of the city or of the state in which they are located. A similar example happened the other day in Kosice, Slovakia, when the same company, without any thought, when the first problems caused by the theft of the gas committed by Ukraine, were sent to an emergency holiday of 10,000 workers. So much for the social responsibility of foreign owners, so-called An investor. So these are investments that are very unstable and sensitive to cyclic economic movements. They should be additionally burdened with tax rates, too, that should be said openly, and domestic monopolies that have huge assets, e.g. Delta owner, not the poorest of the population via excise and VAT. Of course, it is clear that the bill before us aims to conceal the most unreasonable economic decision that could have been made at the moment, which is the unilateral application of the Transition Agreement. Many have criticised here today, but in both the public and the previous days, this unilateral application of the economic agreement with the EU. Everyone agrees that this is an extremely harmful decision. However, if we logically carry out these facts to the end, so on and so forth. The deleter's path in economic terms is harmful. Let's add this statement by Czech President Vaclav Klaus, a courageous politician, who is always telling the truth, which has no democracy in the EU, but that it is about "psychodemocracy". After this, it will be quite clear that the deleterious path to our country brings economic downturn and the collapse of democracy. That's why we have to look for an alternative. Unlike the Czech Republic, we have it in economic, political, but also in historical terms.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12339	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Ambassador Zoran Krasic and National MP Zlata Djeric. Just to let the National Assembly know that the direct transmission of the session ends at 7:15 p.m. for the game of basketball. So if you want to use that time until 19.15, because we don't have an agreement to work on a delayed transmission, there are five more amendments to this bill. According to the amendment to Article 14, there is still a National MP, Zlata Djeric. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12340	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the Honorable President, the Honorable Mr. Minister, respected to the public of Serbia, will take into account the most important side issue in the world, that the game is expected to be transferred, so that I will make sure that this amendment, which is submitted in the same text in front of the SRS and the NS, is just a short thing to say, although my colleague has already said the essence or most of what we planned to say. So, the global economic crisis seems to be too often mentioned for both this speaker and in the public of Serbia, to be primarily excused and incompetent, both to the irresponsible and to those who are particularly naughty, to realize some of their goals. The global economic crisis is coming, we have already mentioned it and called it a plague that Serbia cannot avoid, regardless of how it was initially announced. What is unacceptable is that this set of laws that we need to adopt should ensure that the budget is filled that we have, on the muscles and as they say, with doping resources, adopted before the new year itself. So, those who need to fill this budget, which are citizens of Serbia, and I'm afraid they will benefit the least from it. The economy and agriculture are the two branches that need to secure Serbia's benefits. According to analysis by serious economic analysts, Serbia is preparing between 50,000 and 200,000 layoffs. We might be as scared as the Germans are expecting a million layoffs in this economic crisis, but we don't have that many employees in the economy. Unfortunately, we have a lot on our budget. These tax reliefs that are seemingly offered we have offered this amendment to make them even less acceptable to the citizens of Serbia. Because seeing that some privileged categories have been released, a colleague mentioned them, such as people who have fruit-enhancing or time-shering, it may be recommended that at least one of the taxes be made easier and cheaper for other Serbian citizens. Many things will, in any case, be made difficult for them and many things will come out this year, so by accepting this amendment, at least one part would be made truly easier.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12341	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, Zoran Krasic, you want a word? People's MPs, I'm sorry, Zoran Krasic came forward before you did. The time available for the parliamentary group is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12342	Just very specific to explain what the point of this amendment is. The government in this article, which covered by the amendment, threw out practically the first indent, remained the second indent, and made it a new member and said, the rate of transfer of absolute rights is 2.5%. That's the operation that the government has done. The first indent was expelled because the transfer of ownership shares will no longer be subject to taxation. There was a rate, I think, 0.3%. That's the idea. However, I must draw attention, as it is tax revenue that originally belongs to local self-government, from the point of view of the local self-government budget, they would probably like to be 625%. Yes, local self-government will have a problem with resources, and you can see how much trouble that is. the transfer funds due to this centralisation by the Republic. Now local self-governments are preying on their original incomes so that, two years ago, they have the right to have their tax authorities, to put them into operation, to list everything except markets, streets, etc. And to finish the job, to provide funds in the budget. That's one side. That logic of thinking local self-government is present, it is less or more visible. Where local self-government goes with that grampism, and the government wants to restrain it by saying 2.5%, that it's absolutely free, probably those who would say 5 or 6% that the rate would never be in power in local self-government again. That's why the government plans to behave in the tax policy of local self-government, even when the original incomes are limited and limited. The general trend now is to reduce citizens' obligations towards the state, the fastest observed. Everyone defends themselves under the conditions of this financial crisis by reducing the taxpayers' obligations, counting that way they will remain more for personal consumption, that was once survival for us, and you see that match has begun to play in the west as well. And they are now facing a survival problem, and because only 58,000 citizens in the Republic of Serbia were able to make two or three official, private and so on during the year. go abroad, if you had asked them, they would have told you that for three or four years this situation has been preparing in Western Europe, to be even more open since the euro started as a means of payment, behind the numerical figures the euro came instead of the stamp, and that means if the euro was two stamps, you see at the beginning how much they had to pay for the unification of the two Germanys, because the EU central register is located in Germany. As part of the struggle to give up the state's share of income, there was a drop in tax rates, and so Mr Mirovic suggested that the rate be changed, with 2.5% being 1.5%. Of course, local self-government screams when they hear about this proposal. Because they're facing a problem, too. There will be debts based on transfer funds and not to talk about any other problems, and you have heard an example from Nis, where only two basics require more than 200 million dinars from the Republic, and even to announce a war within the DS, because when Vojvodina can, so can Bosko Ristić in Nis, that's the logic. So we're gonna have that dance. I would take this opportunity to point out the deeper problems that exist in this bill, but I must say that some of the problems are inherited, exist in the existing original text of this law. When the rights to immovable property were defined, first of all I mean Article 2 of the original text, property rights, there was given one nomenclature that covered everything, and then later in the class when some members are mentioned, like Article 12 of the original text, then we get to another criterion, it's a member that regulates why no property tax is paid, then we come up with a double criterion. Of course, state property, on this property should not be paid tax because it would be stupid for the state to pay its own tax, but the criteria of using state property in a very broad way, quite imprecisely, and later on when it comes to renting, I don't mean renting construction land, it's absolutely unsettled by this regulation, but you're not ready to change that. As part of Article 12, you have now added that last position and you will have great problems because you will not be able to explain to anyone in the IRS what you wanted to write. The property tax shall not be paid on fixed property rights which are in accordance with the rules governing accounting and audits recorded as goods exclusively intended for further sale. The final position in Article 12 after this addition is in contradiction with the first position of Article 2. The law, because what are the rights to real estate? Real property, real apartment? How can this be an object of action and be used for further sale? That's not clear. I know what you were planning in the newly built residential areas, I know, we have this affair long ago with the new space, there was a problem of what is being paid, property tax and taxes on the transfer of absolute rights, so when he passed the VAT law Dinkic had thrown out, first thrown in, and then kicked out under the pressure of large agencies, which they said would reduce the traffic of immobility and we'd stop the job, because if we had to pay 18% of VAT at the start. Please, your policy cannot define the particular interests of certain people. To draw attention to you, in the Public Procurement Act, I have pointed out why the real estate is being thrown out of public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-01-14-0.u12343	People's MP, time at your envoy's disposal has been used. Anyone else want to talk on this amendment? No, I don't. ) For today we are finishing our work and continuing our work tomorrow at 10.00 hours by discussing the details of the amendment to Article 17, which was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Thank you.
