ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17056	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have asked the same question twice over the last seven to eight days to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, in hopes of getting an answer – what is the state interest and what is the market interest, how can he explain why money from the Republic of Serbia's budget is being paid through public enterprises to a daily list? What is the reason why taxpayers' money is used in such a way that once a daily list with a miserable circulation, which is absolutely controlled by Aleksandar Vukic, whose editor-in-chief, Predrag Popovic, is paid extremely large amounts of advertising and advertising? Last time we asked questions about "Lutrija Srbija", who is also a monopoliest for Telecom, who is a monopoliest? That, of course, is not the end. - We ask, what is the interest of the city of Belgrade to advertise in that same list? We also have members of the Council at the Belgrade City Administration. We asked a question there, too. We've received a report on what funds have been spent in the last six months. Since we are under great tension that we have to save and it is right, I have to ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic a question – does he have information about how many local self-governments, more specifically cities, more specifically the city of Belgrade is using to advertise in various media, but the essence is how much spending money on the Justice daily to advertise? I will tell you, according to the document we received from the Belgrade Finance Secretariat, that six million 569 thousand were paid for advertising for the period from 1 October 2008 to 31 March 2009. Don't think it's a April 1st joke, but on the next day, in the daily "Justice" list, the city of Belgrade is on seven sides. I ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic -- what's the interest in the Belgrade city being advertised like this, what is paid by this? So, what is expected of the daily "Justice", on the 7th page, April 1st? We've got yesterday's number. The city's answering again. The only advertiser in "Justice" is the city of Belgrade. Under the new law that we passed in the Serbian Parliament, there are no legal conditions to be advertised in the newspapers, both the city and public enterprises, it is enough to advertise on its website and in the official messenger. I have to ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic – what is the State Audit Institute doing? Of course, it is not under his jurisdiction, but I am asking all of us – should the State Auditing Institution enter public enterprises, to control how decisions have been made and why decisions to use these funds have been made? Also, what do budget inspections do? So, these seven papers in Justice on April 1st, advertising about a million dinars, for what? What does the state expect from Justice, from a list of miserable circulations? Is that how some deal is made or some deal is made, or are some services paid to the person who controls that list, which is Alexander Vukic? That is why I expect Prime Minister Cvetkovic to really give us the answer as soon as possible, otherwise every time we ask this question until we get an answer, is it here, through a statement – is anyone controlling which public enterprises will spend budget funds and who controls it, in what way is the City and why is it advertised in one of these daily lists?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17057	The word is made by the People's Messenger Pastor Balint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17058	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to talk about the subject I wanted last week, but since this topic is very serious, I didn't want to talk about it in the atmosphere that reigned in the National Assembly last week. Unfortunately, aggressive impulses against members of national minorities in the Republic of Serbia, primarily members of Hungary, are being re-intented, both against people and against property. We had one such wave of violence in 2004 and 2005. We felt and we hoped that this wave was behind us, but these events, unfortunately, are happening again this year. Incidents are usually present when the political situation is unstable. SVM is not a party that builds its political image on these cases, we are one serious minority regional party, but we believe it is our job to point to these events when they are present and we believe that these events should be discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the end of my presentation, at the end of my address, I will ask Mrs. Snezani Malovic, but before that, let me point briefly to a few examples that happened last week. On March 17th, about 19 hours, a group of seven-eight Serbian boys in Sombor, on their way to the bus stop, attacked a student of the 1st class of Hungarian high school, Elliot Balog from Bezdan, and inflicted serious physical injuries on him. One of the attackers hit the victim with a boxer in the face. Elliott Balogu had broken his nose and cheek, however, despite bleeding and pain, managed to escape and run into a house, asking for help. He was held at the Sombo hospital's Emergency Centre and was operated on March 24th. The mother of Elliot Balog stressed that her son was attacked on a national basis by the boys from Kolut, and perhaps from Bačko Breg, with whom he travels daily by bus to the school from Bezdan to Sombor. According to her information, there were regular verbal attacks on students of Hungarian nationality on the bus, and Elliot reacted repeatedly to attacks instead of silence. The second case took place on March 27th around 23rd in Temerin, when a group of five-six Hungarian nationalities headed to the centre and were attacked by a group of about 15 members. They first simply demanded a standoff with regard to Kosovo, the type – Kosovo is Serbia, since Hungarians did not want to follow these orders, Serbian young men attacked them with boxers and beer bottles. The most severe is the wounded high school kid, K.H. to whom the wounds on the head and face were inflicted. A few more cases also occurred against property, such as the 19th - century Roman Catholic cross in Temerin. On the night between 31 March and 1 April, in Temerin, on the wall of the central building of the elementary school "Imre Kokai" was written – Hungarians in Hungary! I think these cases should be reacted to, but unfortunately no political party has considered any parliamentary party to respond to these cases. On the other hand, the police, of course, have done their job, and now the job needs to be done by both the prosecution and the court. Unfortunately, these attacks are treated like simple fights, and that's very dangerous. What, then, is the Law against Discrimination to us? Ethnicly motivated attacks are very often a criminal offense, a cause of national, racial and religious hatred and the intolerance of Article 317. Criminal code? I have a question for Mrs. Malovic – how many charges have been filed since 1 January 2004 for this crime and how many criminal convictions have been made in connection with this crime, as referred to in Article 317. Criminal code? Only Petar Theophilovic, the District Ombudsman, condemned these cases. Finally, I also have a rhetorical question – when will political culture in the Republic of Serbia be at the same level that other state authorities and political parties in Serbia react?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17059	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17060	Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored citizens of Serbia, I have my first question for the Parliament's leadership: What about our president? Is it true that you, Mrs. Comic, are the chairman of this new workroom of ours and the president of the old? That's one thing. Another question I want to ask here, perhaps Mr. Minister could answer us, since he is present, as regards our government's negotiations with the IMF. Since these negotiations, like the case of Miladin Kovacevic, were declared a state secret, I ask, by what decision of the government and at which session were the negotiations with the IMF declared a state secret? Is it possible for a state secret to declare negotiations that are of interest to the wide layers of Serbian citizens? Do Serbian citizens have the right to know who will pay for this economic crisis, handling the maximum amount of "fish stinks of the head and is always clean from the tail"? Do you, Mrs Comic, as the current chairman, intend to invite the Prime Minister and the entire government, since they now have beautiful seats, have room for everyone to come here, and to explain to the public Serbia's MPs and citizens the package, because since January of the month, it has been in the selection of several packages, and it seems to me that the Government is in fact indecisive and that first of all they listen to the public's reactions and cannot make that package of measures? Shouldn't the package of measures that will determine the fate, standards and life of Serbian citizens in the coming years know this National Assembly and all citizens of Serbia? I expect you, as chairman and practically our representative in front of the executive authority, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to launch this initiative and not to hide neither government nor ministers anymore, but to come here honestly and openly to the National Assembly and to the citizens of Serbia to say what our destiny is, as far as the economy and the standards of citizens are concerned in the next two or three years, that a variety of rumors that, when there is no public in the work, would not add to Serbia's economic and political situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17061	The answer to your question regarding the absence of the National Assembly President, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, is that she is headed by the delegation from 5 April to 9 April and at a meeting of the Interparliamentary Union. The answer to the second question – if not before, if there is no request from parliamentary groups, on the last Thursday of the month, and by the rule of our Rules of Procedure, it is April 30th, it will certainly be the whole government and the Prime Minister to answer parliamentary questions concerning what I share with you, the most interested citizens of Serbia, which is the economic situation, the economic social fears, negotiations with the IMF, the package of measures, the perspective and some indication of when and how the Government, with our control, will solve the problems that have arisen as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go. Please, just press the application one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17062	This year, on March 27th, the Progressive Parliamentary Group, Serbia, the SNS submitted business demands to the Assembly president's initiative to schedule a thematic session, at which we will discuss economic policy, new taxes, a reduction in the scope of funding of local self-government and other measures, which the government intends to lead to the IMF's request, based on an agreement on a new credit arrangement that will continue until April 2011. It is fully deliberate in the name of the topic – a recommendation, which is a euphemism for the IMF's request, as it has been called, and it is fully deliberately used in the subject – based on the arrangements, not the signed IMF Agreement, because we have knowledge that the signed agreement cannot yet be discussed. Although you are still in business within a month which allows the debate to be postponed on this subject, I ask you on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia to schedule this session as soon as possible. Because if the government expects the Assembly to be an associate in defining the best measures for Serbian citizens, then it cannot ignore one such request and use only the media and press conferences as the best or even the only places it will meet or even worse say to question Serbian citizens about the measures it announces and give up on them in order to address the economic crisis. Why are we looking for a debate like this? 1) If one of the measures is announced to freeze wages and pensions, where the savings should be 13 billion dinars, does anyone really think that they will be able to maintain production and consumption levels by freezing wages without in any way touching the freezing of prices, even those under direct control? 2) Does anyone think that by reducing the costs of the Health Fund, out of four billion dinars, that in the way that Mrs. Vukajlović recommends in one of the TV shows, the way she says that pensioners come to the doctor once a month and they are prescribed a whole pack of drugs, although they usually use only a quarter of the medicine, so that to save, one tablet or medicines should be prescribed to a piece? 3) Is it possible that the savings measures the government plans to take – reducing transfers to local self-governments, where there is a saving of only 15 billion dinars, when these local self-governments are forced by growing and greater commitments and from the transferred powers of the republican level, whose local self-government simply will not be able to respond, because it will not have the means to do so, without talking about the problem already brought to the budgets in which these funds have been transferred and planned? I'd like to ask two more short questions. One thing is very important. – Is part of the agreement with the IMF that Serbia has been elected as one of the first countries in which, without creating the usual conditions for joining the monetary EU, the dinar will be replaced with the euro, as part of the IMF's secret plan has been leaked in public, which is spoken of in respectable media and writes in the press that has no 'yellow' prefix – that part of the IMF plan is to solve the problem of highly-indebted countries by repeating them, apart from the usual conditions for joining the EU, will make them replace their domestic currency with the euro? – That the government informs us whether this part of the IMF plan is in line with the agreement regarding negotiations on obtaining three billion euros and getting out of the crisis? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17063	If I understand correctly, the Prosperity Group's request to Serbia was made on the basis of Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says: "The President of the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group, shall, at least once a month, determine the day when individual ministers in the Government will answer parliamentary questions concerning an actual topic. ''The answer is that at a meeting of the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, we will agree on what date will be in April, and between the end of the session that is under way and 30 April, which is the last Thursday of the month and is foreseen under the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Affairs. If we continue the planned pace of work, I am sure that between 23 and 30 April it will be possible to arrange the day when the current topic, which you have discussed, will be scheduled and we will work on Article 204. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17064	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to conclude on behalf of the DSS a few facts. First, last week, on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in this room, what was going on was happening, not to describe. Secondly, on March 3rd of this year, 36 days ago, the DSS Group sent a letter and asked certain questions to the President of Parliament, in order not to talk much, I will read you questions: – Is there a financial analysis of the costs of using the two Assembly buildings? – What is the purpose of individual rooms in each building? – Will two congregation restaurants and with what capacity will work at a time of crisis and savings? – What investment works were carried out during 2008 in both congregation buildings? – Is the electronic voting system trained in the Assembly Hall of the National Assembly and what are the reasons why this system does not work? – Are the conditions provided for the work of the media in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Thirdly, within 15 days, we didn't get the answer, which is not only a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it's a shame that we didn't get it, because if we got it, then probably last week wouldn't have happened, but I guess some things would have worked out. Fourthly, we got the answer yesterday, but unfortunately, that answer is completely flat and we are not satisfied with that answer. Let me illustrate that to you, just a little detail. For example, when asked about the work of the media, we received the following answer – in both facilities of the National Assembly about 500 accredited journalists, television and audio cameramen, there are provided conditions for the work and monitoring of the activities of the National Assembly, as well as its working bodies. This "secured conditions", I'll tell you right now, in this building means they have one room of 30 square meters, which brings out 16.67 journalists per square meter to five hundred accredited journalists. If they all climb each other's shoulders, they can probably work. Finally, I am not going to ask questions here, but in writing, of course, I am going to deliver questions here so that I do not waste your time. I would also like to say that I brought this out here with some likely naive hope that the ruling majority will finally put a finger on the forehead and, with the necessary co-operation with the opposition, begin to solve problems in the functioning of the Assembly, so that this high house does not function as it does. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17065	Since you are essentially not looking for an answer, I can only give you a general answer, that the president of the National Assembly and we as vice presidents are also available for arrangements that involve effective and right, quality functioning of the Assembly. Just a little correction, the area of the room where the technique is needed by journalists is 60 meters square. The word has been sent by Marina Ragush. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17066	I'm sorry I'm sitting here, but for a number of reasons, I'm doing it. First of all, I guess we're technically hearing a lot better when he's sitting there talking in a microphone, because my previous colleagues really had trouble hearing each word, and I especially have a problem with you at that table to hear, and that should be removed. What I would do, based on Article 235. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly wanted me to take advantage of the five-minute time period simply, one problem is being overcome by another and it seems to me that Serbian society is growing more and more in a crisis that I fear will not be easy to get out of. Yesterday I raised a question about the situation that is happening in the capital and the Belgrade mayor's relationship with the Roma, not wanting to qualify whether it violates the law or not, meaning it aside. It is about the relationship of this minority group in Decada that should improve their position in society and make us all pay special attention to minority groups in the state of Serbia. What was frantic for us as an SRS MP group, and I have to stop with the disgust, is precisely this inhumane attitude towards the Roma population found at a certain location. So while the law is respected, what we seem to be is a violation of basic humanitarian principles in the context of everything we talked about in the past months, and it was a ban on discrimination in Serbian society, I think it is extremely inappropriate for Mr Gilas to say that these people who do not have residence in Belgrade should be returned to the places where they came from. He also directly speaks of the readmission agreement, which led to a number of Roma being returned from Western European democracies to the state of Serbia, that the state of Serbia is solving their problems, but without a single cent of assistance. The state of Serbia is poor, it has entered the recession, will not have the means to solve life's most fundamental problems, and we in front of our eyes in this democratic society see Mr Gilas' relationship. What is really a question, a proposal, a suggestion, a competent ministry and competent institutions, which should deal with this problem, is the following – we expect a spot-on response from the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. We want to hear what the Ministry will do about this, given that I am mayor Gilas says that, in fact, he confirms that there is no respect for the procedure in terms of negotiations to resolve the situation in which Roma were found, there are women first, there are children, there are also currently displaced persons from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. What we learn from the statement of the first man in Belgrade is that he strongly condemns these international organisations that have objected, with right and reason, really almost at the edge of brutal behavior, the first man in Belgrade, saying that Belgrade and the state of Serbia did not receive the necessary means to solve this problem based on the reading. It is also, in the context of all that the SRS has been trying to present to the Serbian public all these days, that a set of all the laws, the validation of all conventions, will not be possible to implement in practice because there is simply no financial structure to solve all the accumulated problems. We also find, on the basis of a statement by Mr. Gilas, that the Republic Ombudsman has not been consulted, that no relevant republican institutions have been consulted, that Mr. Gilas will only meet with OSCE and UNHCR representatives to discuss this topic these days. That's what the SRS is talking about. It is amazing that in this way it actually proves political discrimination and discrimination on the particularity of this minority, such as the Roma minority, the first man in the city of Belgrade. A question about all those who do not have a place of residence in Belgrade – Belgrade will in the next few months be the haven of all those who will not be able to earn bread, as it has been in previous historical periods – what should be done then? Let's get them back. Where? Where they can't survive. In the end, it would be just as much as if we could remember what the name Gilas brought to this people and to this country, so let's say, please, Mr. Gilas, go back to where your origins came from. It's just that these are completely unacceptable findings. Instead of solving the problem by negotiating with people, I apologize for time overruns, I end up thinking, in order to solve and combat further problems, as we see, as joined courts have also encountered other problems, the bottom has turned to people who don't actually have the opportunity to protect themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17067	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want to exercise their right, on the basis of Article 235? The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. We continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jelena Travar-Miljević and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, President of the National Assembly of Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanović, called for meetings with representatives of the motionor to attend: Vesna Arsic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, Dr. Slobodan Ilic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrovica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Jelena Cvetkovic, Assistant Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Ms. Jelena Marjanović, Assistant Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Branko Radosevic, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Pavle Galić, Assistant Minister of Infrastructure, Miodrag Miljković, State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Nenad Dikić, Director of the Antidoping Agency of the Republic of Serbia, Jadranka Zenić-Zeljković, Head of the Department of Economy and Regional Development, Stanko Radanjnić, Ministry of Economy and Minister of Economy, Ministry of Economy and Minister of the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of the Ministry of Economy and Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the National Affairs, National Affairs, National Affairs, National Affairs, National Affairs, National Affairs of the National Affairs. I would also like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, has called for a part of today's session to be attended by a group of students of the Serbian Faculty of Economics and Political Sciences, who will follow the session from the plenary gallery in the period from 11.00 to 11.15 p.m., which I will especially inform you when invited guests come to the gallery. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of ROTERDAMS CONVENTION ON THE PROCEDURE OF DAWN ACCORDANCE ON THE PRE-FERENCE OF THE PRE-FERENCE ON CERTIFICATION OF DAVANY CONVENTION AND PESTICIDES IN INTERNATIONAL TRADE, WITH THE AMENDMENTS AND ADDITIONS (joint single search with points 16 and 17 and points 28 to 43 of the agenda) Are the representatives of the promoter, Mr Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning, Mladjan Dinkić, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development, Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance, Ivica Dacic, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Government – Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Home Affairs, Mlažana Dinjić, Minister of Culture and Minister of the Ministry of Culture and Minister of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Mirkotinić, Mr. Of the called ministers, who are proposing acts from quoted agenda points, Mr Oliver Dulic is present and has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to briefly explain the need to confirm the Rotterdam Convention on the process of granting consent on the basis of a prior notice on certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade. This very important convention was adopted in 1998 and came into force in early 2004. To date, more than 120 countries of the world have joined the Convention, including all EU Member States and, of course, the EU itself as an organisation of states. The main objective of the Rotterdam Convention is to distinguish responsibilities and co-operation in international trade and certain dangerous chemicals, all in order to protect human health and the environment. This Convention contributes to the proper handling of dangerous chemicals through the exchange of information on the properties of these chemicals. The Convention thus provides for a procedure for granting consent to imports of certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides, which are listed by the Convention, based on information on their properties, or hazards. The Rotterdam Convention is thus the first line of defense to protect countries that import dangerous chemicals. Given the fact that most imports of chemicals by the Republic of Serbia, information on the properties of chemicals, which is being prepared for each chemical in this Convention under the authority of the Convention, will help our country to decide in an adequate way whether to allow or prohibit the import of certain chemicals. The Convention on the Accessibility of Information and Public Participation on Decision-making and Legal Protection in Environmental Affairs, known as the Archus Convention, whose confirmation today is proposed to the National Assembly, was concluded in 1998 at the Fourth Ministerial Conference - the Life Environment for Europe, in the Danish city of Archuscan, and entered into force on 30 October 2001. The ratification of this Convention has great importance for the application of a number of laws, including the system law on environmental protection. The Archusa Convention is an international agreement in the area of the environment, which clearly links human rights with procedures and instruments in the field of the environment. The Convention lays down specific obligations for Member States on three groups of issues, known as the three pillars of the Archus Convention: availability of information on the environment, public participation in the decision-making of the environment and the right to legal protection in the field of the environment. The Convention shall, above all, provide for the obligation of the parties to make available information concerning the environment available to the public at the request of the public and at the disposal of public authorities. The Archduke Convention defines public participation, in particular in the following cases: in decision-making on whether to grant the intentional release of genetically modified organisms into the environment, in the design of plans, programmes and policies relating to the environment and on the preparation of environmental regulations. The issue of availability of information and public participation in decision-making and the right to legal protection in environmental matters can be seen as a general criterion for assessing the state of democratisation of society. Hence, the universal importance of the principles and rules of the Arch of the Convention, which significantly overcome the narrow professional issues and enter into fundamental issues of respect for human rights. By confirming the Archus Convention, the Republic of Serbia will show its readiness to respect democratic values defined as the goal and basis of this and other international agreements, and citizens will be given an important confirmation of one of their fundamental rights – the right to be informed, and especially about such an important issue, such as the issue of their environment. Confirmation of the Archduke Convention should be seen in the context of the overall efforts made in the Republic of Serbia towards its membership in the EU, i.e. by harmonising national rules with EU rules. Confirmation of the Archus Convention and the consistent application of its provisions are in direct connection with the process of bringing the Republic of Serbia closer to the EU. This is for a number of reasons, and above all because of the fact that the standards of the Archus Convention are part of a valid EU legislation, with which national regulations are intensively harmonised. The European Community has been a formal member of the Archus Convention since 17 February 2005, and the provisions of the Convention have been incorporated into all the most significant EU regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to also explain the bill on confirming the amendment to the Annex B Kyoto Protocol, along with the Framework Convention on Climate Change. The adoption of this amendment to the Annex B Kyoto Protocol does not affect the status, obligations and implementation of the Kyoto Protocol in the Republic of Serbia and is fully in line with the decisions of the Secretariat of the Framework Convention on Climate Change and Kyoto Protocol, which are members of the Republic of Serbia. By ratifying this amendment to the Kyoto Protocol, the Republic of Serbia contributes to its entry into force, namely the accession of Belarus to the Anexa B Kyoto Protocol and the determination of its obligation to quantify the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. I note that the accession of the Amendment by the Republic of Serbia is not conditioned by paying the annual concession. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17069	Before we continue our work, I would like to inform the National Assembly that at the National Assembly gallery, students of the postgraduate studies of the Faculty of Economics and Political Sciences from London attend our session, organised by the Serbian Association of the Faculty. On your behalf, I wish you good welcome to Robyn Klinger (U.S.), Alice Anne Elizabeth DeBats (Australia), Abouyar Nasiryadeh (Canada), Helene Banner (Germany), Sara Moffat (U.S.), Mustafa Izzaddin (Singapore), Toh Shn Hao (Singapore), Toh Shin Hao (Singapore), Hsiang-Chien Hsu (Taiwan, Republic of China), Tamara Miatovic (Croatia), Andrej Jonovic (Sweden). Welcome to the National Assembly. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets his word on the basis of Article 100(1), I am only asking you to apply to the parliamentary unit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17070	We heard a government official at two points in this united debate. He thanked his attention, which is a sign that he would no longer participate in explaining the other proposals. How can you open a debate? Do you only open this by these two ratifications by which we had a government reporter and representative or do you open up about all the points that no one has informed us about? I'd like to say, of course, you've united the debate, united the agenda points, the government can't send us a representative just for a segment of that united agenda, otherwise you're telling us to go back to the vote on whether the debate can be united. If a representative of the Government cannot explain, and cannot explain the laws of the domain of the ministries in which he is not a minister, please inform us what is wrong with the other representatives, if we will get a report from all government representatives before the debate begins or we will interrupt the session until these distinguished ministers appear at our session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17071	A unique search on points 15, 16 and 17 and points 28 to 43 implies the presence of a promoter by our Rules of Procedure. It is very obvious that only one of the promoters is present here during the session. Given that it is a unique search, the decision to work is in favour of whoever wants to work and who wants to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is Minister Oliver Dulic. It is up to the MPs to use their discussions critically or however they wish, by calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in the time before us for a debate after a unique search. I agree with you that government representatives must be in the National Assembly Hall, although such a provision is not strictly and unequivocally applicable in cases of a single search. One of the promoters is present and the National Assembly will work. It is likely that during the day, we will have a meeting of representatives or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, where we will agree in which way, as an institution, we will react in the event that authorised officials or representatives of the Government, whether justified or not, are not present during the work. Minister Oliver Dulic asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would still like to do something that is likely to be a precedent, but I think it's very important that we are in the process of building relationships between the institutions of this country. We fought together even when most of us ministers today were MPs, and then I think it's correct that we do it today when we are representatives of the executive government. I apologize on behalf of ministers who are not present today. I hope they get there in time. Please set a break until the representatives of the motionors under the other laws appear to present to you what you need. I think it is very important that they present and I believe that the presentation of these laws, as well as the presentation of any other act proposed to the National Assembly, above all, the presentation of their work and that it will certainly serve them because of the enormous work and the efforts of all these people involved. I think the correct thing to do is to set a break until the representatives of the proposal appear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17073	It is not such a common case that a representative of the executive authority makes a proposal that MPs look forward to. I think if the National Assembly agrees, we can work on those agenda points that Minister Oliver Dulic has proposed and for which he proposes. If you agree, let's wait for an explanation from the promoter and see if there are any explanations, because I don't believe there can be excuses, then I'm setting a break, and now it's 11 o'clock, by 11.30 p.m. when we're going to continue our work. National MP Elvira Kovac wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100, paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17074	I report a violation of today's work procedure, with all due respect to Mr. Minister, who is now a minister, not a MP. People's MPs who came to work at 10:00 today to get ready for debate, and for example, I've prepared to discuss exactly three conventions concerning the environment, I think they're willing to work. We certainly know that the reputation of the National Assembly was ruined thanks to sometimes, unfortunately, the behaviour of certain ministers from the government, and this happened last week when we had a day set for answering parliamentary questions, when four ministers showed up. Today, with all due respect to the minister, who has come and whom I would like to say most well-meaningly that I ask him to stand next when he sets the laws, because he knows what the dignity of the National Assembly means and he was a very good president of this distinguished home. I also consider the Manjin Parliament Club personally that we should continue our work. I'd like the chairman to inform the other ministers to arrive as soon as possible. It really doesn't make sense for us to suffer again and wait two hours for someone to behave. It could happen that ministers don't show up in the next hour or two, and then how we're gonna work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17075	Formally, in calling for a word on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, we would have to quote a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured. A break that we said would take from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. will be used for a meeting of the president or authorised representatives of the parliamentary clubs in the hall and here at the House of the National Assembly. At that meeting, we will agree on a way to address the Government, or the authorised legislators. To inform you, I have a proposal and a request from the president of the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, to agree at the same meeting with the presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary clubs on the work of his committee, which he needs consultations from the president of the parliamentary groups. We'll continue the session at 11:30. Thank you. [[After break – 11.40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work after the break. At a meeting of the presidents and authorised representatives of the authorised groups, we agreed to continue our work today, following a unique review of the draft laws under points 15, 16 and 17 and points 28 to 43 of the agenda. Minister Snezana Samardzic-Markovic joined us. On behalf of the National Assembly, the chairman will send a letter to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for instructions that, in the case of specific types of acts such as conventions, or ratifications on conventions, and in the case of a variety of ministries and sectoral policies, the Government will clearly write down who will be the proposing representative, regardless of whether it is the minister who will cover several areas or the Vice-President or the Prime Minister with its presence and knowledge. With the hope that we will successfully end the debate on the unique search of points that are on the agenda, so we continue to work. Does the word rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want MP Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment want a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the outside want a National MP, Milos Jevtic, president of the Committee? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Finance want the National MP Branko Ljiljak, vice president of the Committee? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee of Enlightenment want MP Zoran Shami, chairman of the Committee? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Science and Technological Development want the word of Srboljub Zivanovic, president of the Committee? No, I don't. ) Does the Committee on Youth and Sports rapporteur Milan Vukkovic, president of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Transport and Communications want the People's MP Milan Urosevic, president of the Committee? No, I don't. ) Do the MPs Milan Veseinović, Momcilo Duvnjak and Srboljub Zivanovic want the word, which, at the session of the Committee on Transport and Relations, issued an opinion on the draft laws under points 36, 37, 38 and 39 of the agenda? No, I don't. ) Unfortunately, MPs Milan Veseinovic, Momcilo Duvnjak, do not have the opportunity to address the National Assembly because they have been excluded from the session for 20 days because of their disrespect for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Does MP Srboljub Zivanovic want a word? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs Srboljub Zivanovic, Marko Milenkovic and Sreto Peric want the word, which, at the meeting of the Committee on Science and Technological Development, issued an opinion on the proposals of the law on items 40 and 41 of the agenda? No, I don't. ) Unfortunately, MPs Marko Milenkovic and Sreto Peric do not have the opportunity to address the National Assembly because they have been excluded from the session for 20 days because of their disrespect for the decisions and provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Does MP Srboljub Zivanovic want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Yeah. ) The Word has a national MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic, the authorised representative of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group. I'm just asking you to press charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17077	Thank you. First of all, I have to make a few findings, because, first of all, nothing changed after a half-hour break. We continue with the same number of ministers, or one single minister, and no one new has come, or I apologize there are two. It's simple, it's a hundred percent increase in numbers, isn't it? It is a very serious relationship between the ruling coalition and Parliament and I simply do not know if we have any working conditions at all. The other thing that I would like to comment on is that there is finally a position to be made whether we are sitting when we are talking, because the system definitely cannot be used when we are standing or standing, because we should be standing because it is one of the ways to show our relationship to this Parliament, that is, respect for this Parliament. One's standing, one's sitting. Minister of Time stands, time sits. It's just that it's embarrassing for everyone and it's okay to make a point about what's right and what we should do. So, until I get any answer to what I said more as a finding, I would start with the proposal for a law confirming the Rotterdam Convention on the process of granting consent based on a prior notification of certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade, with amendments and additions. So, with these three ecological conventions, so-called, which I find very important and which I think should be explained to the citizens of this country, above all, that there are a series of laws that we have discussed in previous days based on some of them. The main objectives of this Rotterdam Convention are primarily the sharing of responsibilities and the exchange of information on dangerous chemicals in international trade. This was all done because a country importing certain chemicals from an exporting country should be given full information available to the importing country, the list on which this chemical is found, how dangerous it is and whether it is banned in that exporting country. This Convention shall regulate the way in which the prior consent procedure on imports of chemicals from the list contained in the Convention is carried out in so-called ‘the Convention’. Annex 3. The list sets out chemicals that are completely prohibited in a particular country or limited to their application in certain means of use. How do you get that consent? In the case of exports of some chemical substances, the exporting country must agree to make the country an exporter, so that the chemical can be placed on the market. The Convention also provides for a procedure for the introduction of a chemical substance into Annex 3. So we have a complete procedure and the contents of the information that the exporter has to deliver along with the chemical. According to the Convention, each State Signator should form a national body that should be a link between the Convention Secretariat and other bodies of the Convention and the country which practically forms that national body. This body should meet individual specific requirements for imports of certain chemicals. In addition to the information that chemical substances are prohibited in exporting countries, accession to the Convention provides opportunity and technical assistance in the exchange of information on all chemicals. Since the world is practically a global village, this is of great importance to each of the countries in the world. This so-called. The Rotterdam Convention has so far been signed and ratified by 123 countries and is one of the ways and conditions of joining the EU, but first and foremost ratification is one of the priorities of a strategic approach to international chemical governance. Something only on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Amendment to the Annex B Kyoto Protocol, with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, is simply to say that this is one technical part of the Agreement, that it does not require any new material resources, that for Serbia this is a purely technical matter and it is very important to pass the procedure. A certain procedure is passing through the Assembly and voting of the Assembly. What's this about? This amendment, which we are talking about today, proposes to include Belarus in the Annex B Kyoto protocol. It's a country in transition. It is understood that by signing and ratifying the Kyoto protocol, Belarus will also assume an obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by five percent compared to the 1990 levels of the same gases. I want to remind the citizens of Serbia that Serbia did sign the Kyoto Protocol in January 2007 and we ratified the Kyoto Protocol. Serbia belongs to those countries that do not produce substances that have damaged the ozone layer since 2004, the Ministry of Environment Protection, as it was then called, monitored and kept records of imports and exports of substances that do not damage the ozone layer, but contribute to global warming and several thousand times more than carbon dioxide. So Serbia is not a significant emitter of carbon dioxide. In Serbia's territory, this gas is mainly caused by the burning of fossil fuels in thermal power plants, heat and traffic. With this ratification, it should be said, Serbia has opened up opportunities to participate in clean development mechanisms. What I need to say and what's the point of my story is this third convention, too, so-called. The Archus convention towards the city where she was formed. This is a confirmation of the Convention on the Accessibility of Information, the participation of the public in decision-making and the right to legal protection in environmental matters. What exactly is this about? That's something our citizens really need to know, because here the whole point is about the participation of citizens in decision-making regarding environmental protection. In fact, this Convention lays down the specific obligations of the Member States in three areas. The first is – availability of information on the environment, upon request. The second is – public participation in decision-making regarding the environment. The third is the right to legal protection. The convention was passed in 1998 and the first area, the availability of information, in Serbia, I can say, is partially already applied through applicable laws, although we have a lot of stories that are practically not going through this sieve and solution. We have a story, first of all, about this Al Gore book, which we've got here and the public is interested in, the story of a lateral mind, which is somehow close to our government, because I see that the Ministry has funded the printing of this book. Otherwise, Al Gore, apart from being suddenly a writer of ecological pamphlets, which should not be overly involved now, has these things that can be tolerated, but is known to the public as someone who in two terms has not signed the Kyoto Protocol by the U.S. Deputy Prime Minister. So he poisoned us that way. Of course, he had a great opportunity to do so, and he was also vice-president of the US government who was targeting us with poor uranium, 107 locations in Kosovo, four locations in Southeast Serbia and one in Montenegro. So, we don't know the number of missiles that fell to this country today. Our data tells us about 50,000 missiles, NATO data differs, they say they were targeting only 31 thousand missiles, and Russian data says there were 90,000 missiles of impoverished uranium. Gentlemen, this is a very large number, and the public needs to know all these numbers, and I think that after 10 years, when there's so much talk in the media these days about joining NATO, we need to open this story and open it up because we have the opportunity to follow up on a survey that started in 2002 with 29 people from the territory that are being targeted. Then a trace of the poored uranium was followed to urinate. In all 29, the result showed that this clue was found. Genetic changes in the kidneys and blood vessels were found. In one family, of those 29, we also have genetic disorders in the birth of offspring. So, these are the results of all of this, and the state hasn't allocated funds to systematically monitor the health status of people from these territories. On the other hand, all those involved in tracking changes in the animal and plant world also warn that we already have genetic changes in rats, which are the most resilient in this whole story. There's something about radioactivity in wild boars, deer. We have mutations in certain plant species, so don't be serious about this subject, and the availability of environmental information is one of the ways that we can illustrate this to our public. Also, one way is that what DSS MPs are constantly asking the ministry, of course, not this minister, to him, unfortunately, we are referring to questions, but we need to get answers from some minister, as eleven million euros went to the counting of mosquitoes, ticks and ambrosia, and there was another ministry in charge. That's information the public might know. Another area, public participation in environmental decisions, we also have in our domestic legislative practice, for example, through the right to conduct administrative proceedings, the right to appeal, etc. I've been a little permuting, I'm talking about legal protection, and this other area, public participation in decision-making, and how important and, unfortunately, we don't have elaborate mechanisms as a state to slowly introduce the public into the possibility of making decisions. On the other hand, the public doesn't know how to get involved in all this, but in the last few years we've been finding a model, so this thing is kind of opening up to the public, or environmental protection is kind of opening up to the public and some information and what the public is saying about it somehow finds a way, so they appear in the laws. I want to say that it is important to make sure that the public participation system itself consists of four components in the decision-making process. The first participation is in planning, decision-making and implementation and control. The second is creative and active co-operation between the public, private and civil sectors. The third is the most widely understood social and political co-operation and consent. The fourth is public access to data and documents. So, first of all, we need to make sure that there is an extremely high role for the state to participate in the decision on sustainable development, because we as a country have defined ourselves as sustainable development in environmental protection, and in this direction we need to have the broadest social consent and consent of all citizens, because without this relationship we cannot talk about how Serbia's sustainable development will be brought to some level that we can be satisfied as a country. I have spoken several times during these two days about the issue of Koserić and the burning of tires and these are issues that we could regulate in this way, that we have had a little more hearing and experience as Parliament and the Ministry in that direction, and local self-government in that direction. The role of the state in the process of establishing and improving public participation in decision-making has been defined in two ways – international conventions and domestic legislation. One of the approaches to conventions is this, ratification of conventions of international character. On the other hand, domestic legislation also shows these days in the field of environmental protection that there are elements to develop. As the National Assembly in 2004, we adopted the Law on Access to Information of Public Matter. We've chosen a trustee as well. It is certain that at all levels of government there are those who keep information about the state of the environment secret, and that is what causes citizens to be suspicious, and always somehow, from experience to date, when information is given to citizens react in a way that is neither timely nor accurate, so there is always this kind of guard, conditionally said, to the public according to the information they receive. I think that's the way to go. People need to make sure the information they're getting is correct. One way to build that trust is to tell the story of Panchev in the election campaign. It was very ugly and inappropriate and I think it's an experience to learn as a state. I must say, there is an extremely large role in the media. Unfortunately, I don't think the same as our minister in that direction. He has repeatedly said that the picture is being repaired in the media. I don't think the media has any capacity, no expertise, and not much desire to talk about environmental protection in the right way. First of all, look at the terms of the emissions involved in protecting the environment, so look at the language that is then spoken. I think the media, the state and the civil sector must definitely set up a joint meeting on the subject and improve the role of the media in a satisfactory way. The citizens realized, in fact, in one good part that it is possible to change the attitude of the state, the attitude of local self-government on some concrete, above all local issues. Remember the famous park in Starar, when the media and siege of citizens in the field lasted to get citizens to have a green area in their area. I don't think that's the way, but that's the way it should go, that citizens have the right to fight for what they've justified prove is right. What are strategic objectives in the field of information and public participation? It is, above all, an affirmation of environmental opinion and awareness of sustainable development in citizens and media, the state and NGOs. Then, promoting dialogue among participants in the process, building public administration institutions and local self-government to support citizens and motivate citizens to participate in the decision-making process. In one part of our law, we had the opportunity to give, say, to manage a certain ecological well-being of some of the NGOs and groups of citizens and I would find it very interesting to have some research, to simply see how much this was followed, how much effect it had. I think it's one of the roads that citizens directly participate in protecting the environment on some local ground. I've already said, we've defined ourselves for sustainable development. This requires building a system aimed at raising the level of environmental awareness, then, the environmental knowledge and environmental responsibility of every citizen, every social group in Serbia and without all of it, without the greatest support, without the confidence that is being built, will not be able to develop Serbia in this direction and I think that there is the responsibility of the state and how large, responsibility for information and everything related to direct or indirect participation in building sustainable development, i.e. the concept and application of a sustainable development strategy. When we talk about alternative sources of energy, about ways of saving energy in the household, the minister gave examples, but I have to remind you, gentlemen, I've been in the building several times in these few days, I've been going to the old building where we worked, all the lights are on, all the lights in the hall where there's no one, all the lights around the hall. We just don't have a culture. It's nice that we started one day to turn off the lights for an hour, but I'm also asking the institutions to get involved, because without those big spenders, we won't have much help from the lids and pots and recycling. How should the state respond to this process? The state must, above all, be open, technically ready and humanely ready for all types of broad social participation in this process of dialogue. This is the way it's being built, this is the way the state of Serbia should go, and I think that by defining it for sustainable development, it's probably defined in this way. I apologize for speaking so accurately and for so long about all this, but my opinion and the opinion of the DSS is that citizens are educated in this way and that this assembly speaker is an ideal place to show citizens how to talk about environmental protection and Serbia as an ecological state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17078	Thank you. Mr Tomislav Nikolic picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, an apology that I speak in this assembly for the first time sitting, but so you have condemned us, in the desire that we have materials in front of us, in order to read precisely the individual name of the law, and not to look like a coat of arms since birth, I will have to speak sitting down, even though it reduces the importance of what I am saying and the importance of this National Assembly. The citizens are already talking about us as people they hate to get up when they want to say something. Think about it, Mr. Chairman. It's been promised that we'll get some new microphones that have a longer length than these, that we'll at least look a little like people as we speak to you. So, I'm protesting what I have to say sitting down. (President: I apologize, Mr. Nikolic. [[Disabled microphone.]] The microphones are enough and they totally catch the sound if you're standing. I'll give you the right to speak. Here you go. All right, I'll take it you didn't deliberately interrupt my thought, because I don't look at you like that. I thank Mr. Dulic for accepting honorably that we work here a little dishonestly, by putting together 40 proposals and at least seven, eight, competent ministers, and bringing in one who was finished that day, to defend the government's proposals. I don't think the government can play with us anymore, if you're already playing, so put together an incompatible game, from now on, either the Deputy Prime Minister or the Prime Minister can represent a set of different laws that should be made public by different ministries. We shared our debates within this huge agenda point, which could be a little bit of a ceremony, to pass without debate, but it repeats the manner of the previous government, the second government of Vojislav Kostunica, which I would like to discuss with the representatives of the government, to find out what is going on, so that I can take further views on the current topics. So we have two points, 28 and 36. One agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Moldova, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia and the Mission of the provisional administration of the UN in Kosovo, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 on the privileges and immunities of the CEFTE Secretariat and the second proposal for a law confirming a multilateral agreement between the European Community and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not know why Bulgaria is not deleted from here, it is already a member of the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, and I have the same objection, as with Bulgaria, the Republic of Serbia and the Mission of the UN Interim Administration in Kosovo, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999. So in all these forty-something proposals to confirm some agreements, it says who signed the agreement on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. For these two agreements, I found no one to sign on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. As the minister, vice president or president, who has accepted that in the text of the Agreement, and also in the name of the Agreement, the Republic of Serbia is a co-negotiation of an international contract with the Interim Mission in Kosovo and the Metohija, which performs on behalf of Kosovo, even humiliates us to the extent that the word Metohija is also rejected, and that the minister says it is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244. I can accept that a man does small benefits can betray some of his ideals, that sometimes he can give in, that he can sometimes not look like himself, but the state can't do that. We are full of promises, from the president of the state, through the ruling coalition in the Assembly, that we will fight for Kosovo and Metohija with all diplomatic means. Who here gives up fighting for Kosovo and Metohija by diplomatic means? How dare the government offer the National Assembly a ratification of an agreement that separates Kosovo and Serbia, in which Kosovo has the treatment of a state that signs international agreements, and even with the humiliation that these agreements are signed at the same time as Serbian representatives? Representatives of the government, and no one has come to this point, owe it to say who signed the agreement on behalf of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, it's so signed by CEFT, with a story that we'll have free trade. In 2005, an energy agreement with Kosovo was signed in Athens, so Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija do not have electricity for a month. My information from today says they strike hunger in Ranilug. In order to make it clear to our citizens why I am calling for Resolution 1244, and I suppose all of you as a straw strangler, or tell us that you will drop that straw when you judge that the time has come, and that would be the day we could expect to join the European Union, I would just like to read to you how the Resolution speaks to Serbia and to the missions of the Mission, first of all, in the basic text of the Resolution – the Security Council reaffirming the commitment of all Member States to sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SR Yugoslavia and other countries of the region, confirms the appeal from previous resolutions for broad autonomy and fundamental self-government for Kosovo. Then, in Annex 1, the Group of eight ministers – the political process towards establishing an agreement on a temporary political framework that will ensure essential self-government in Kosovo, taking into account the Rambuje Agreement and the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the SR Yugoslavia and other countries in the region, and Annex 2 – the establishment of a temporary administration for Kosovo as part of an international civilian presence, under which the people of Kosovo will be able to enjoy essential autonomy within the SR Yugoslavia, which will be decided by the UN Security Council. If you, ministers, do not make this document clear, do not call on him anymore. Don't let Boris Tadic at the Security Council say it's our territory, according to UN Security Council Resolution. Do not lead us before the International Court of Justice, which should decide whether this is our territory, if you already sign agreements, international agreements with part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, this is a minor benefit. Will the CEFT Secretariat enjoy immunity in the Kingdom of Belgium? It wasn't even signed for that benefit. It is signed that you appear as signatories along with representatives of Kosovo. And leave that two-faced policy behind. And today, Serbian citizens are in pain of your campaign fraud. And today they don't know what they're up to with you. You are the ruling coalition that has promised full defence of Kosovo and Metohija. You are a coalition that has promised a minimum of 1,000 euros per citizen of Serbia, free from heaven. You're a coalition that promised a white Schengen visa in a year. You're the coalition that promised a car factory in Kragujevac. You're a coalition that promised everything and didn't keep anything. You didn't tell us that you're the government that's gonna lead us when we get the hardest, maybe we wouldn't choose you. Maybe we don't trust you to lead the poor. Serbian citizens have chosen you as the easiest people to access credit, to pre-accession funds, which can pardon the EU, which can slowly open doors towards the Russian Federation as well. They don't trust you, Mr. Minister, that you know what it means to be poor and out of work, or to know how long it takes to do winter fruit spraying or how much it takes to flood or sow. You, gentlemen ministers, don't know that. We need elections, that people choose people who will be responsible for what they do for at least two years or three years of crisis. You can't keep your promises, nor do you want to keep them. You published a list of directors of public enterprises, their salaries, but, behold, miracles, from February. Who asked you about February? It was then already campaigned against them, they cut their wages. Give us how much they took home last year, based on the salary, based on bonuses, privileges, rewards. I guarantee there are those that took away 200,000 euros last year. I can name these people for you. Now his salary is 340,000 dinars. Is that the information we need? You don't have to. When a criminal washes his hands, then we don't need him, we need blood to catch him in the act. The problem is very serious. I wouldn't talk about these ratifications at all. I wouldn't spend your precious time on the way to Europe, just don't think Serbia can enter Europe without a government. With a government like this, you have no place in Europe, with such a divided government, with a government where one minister cannot say to another – don't steal anymore and don't lie anymore, and I am ashamed to sit next to you, with a government where there are ministers who have never seen the National Assembly Hall or come in for five minutes, with a government whose ministers leave their red cheeks with shame, MPs who are mostly correct people. When ministers seem to have a bit of reputation, then the newspaper starts to write about how we have big salaries and big diaries, how we feed free of charge, how we park on the natros. A government that deals with anyone who is not ready to support her on that day, no matter what she does, she does not deserve to lead Serbia. I strongly recommend that you call the election. Maybe you can still win a good percentage of the vote. Don't wait too long. Even those who will replace you will not be paid to find a broken ground. Don't wait for social unrest, no one's looking forward to it! You can challenge them either you or the opposition, but it won't make anyone feel better. Do not hide the measures from us, for we must not know, nor the MPs, nor the people must know what you are preparing. Now is the time for everyone to go to the public, and the Prime Minister, and the director of the public enterprise, to stop lying, to tell us what's ahead of us, to get ready for it. You wrap everything up for us, and in July there's a hunger waiting for us. That's why I liked to have ministers here today, those who spend their budget, those who seek budget rebalancing for their own purposes, not thinking about this being a poor budget. This is the budget of a poor house that takes care of food first, and of communals, and of clothes, and then of what you are used to, angry, many of you, who have spent many years abroad. What you're used to, the state can't fund anymore, because the state doesn't have any more for its children. You're dealing with the Roma in Belgrade. I know the law needs to be implemented. I know that cardboard houses don't go anywhere they want to go. I know that Rommie needs to do something to make the neighbors appreciate them, but you let it grow, grow, grow, become an insecure problem, and then bulldozer. In fact, Minister, you said "buldozer", and you say "buldozers", since that's the English word "dozer" or "bul" or "til" or "ngl", but not to teach you that, you will learn that when you take care of the rivers and perform the melioration. So don't forget there's always enough opposition in this room to bring down the government. There is no democratic authority that one day in the O.R. doesn't bring down the opposition. What we are a little bit divided, a hungry year is made up of wolves and sheep, a great cold and a cat and a mouse – if you continue like this, you will soon see how the opposition will act uniquely as a poet. I'd love to, and I can see that another party has offered it to you, to work together to find the best solution, so we'll make a choice after that, if you want. If you won't, think twice about the election. It doesn't go on like this anymore. Stop lying to us, start a little bit of objectively informing us what's ahead of us. Yesterday, Putin said that millions of people were already out of work in Russia, and Russia would be the easiest to cope with the crisis. What are we going to do that's gonna be the hardest thing for us to do? What's waiting for us? I don't trust you, but it's my job, I'm in opposition. Think carefully about whether there are people who trust you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17080	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted by the MPs' groups of ZES, SRS, G17 plus, DSS, Forwards, Serbia and Manjina. If the authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word I ask them to apply, otherwise, I cannot know if anyone wants a word. The word has an authorised representative of the SRS, Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17081	Mr. Novakovic, in time I signed up as an authorised representative, but as I recall, I don't think you were in the chair. What should be on Parliament's agenda today is some 19 draft laws on the validation of various conventions. All of this would not be controversial if these conventions were implemented, or if they refer to the entire territory of the Serbian state. In doing so, I must express a really great protest that only a few of you are present, and that is definitely an image of the Serbian government's relationship to such important issues. I think that these days, the Serbian public is increasingly and more convinced of the true image that destroys Serbia's dignity, not only of Parliament, given that the institutions in Serbia almost do not exist. What I would like to hear from the present few representatives of the Serbian government is to answer me – will these conventions be implemented on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? That's the first question. The second question, given that we are all here, bearing in mind only the better lives of citizens who have chosen and voted us, therefore, to improve their lives, as well as the goal of making the state of Serbia a strong national, economically recovered, safe house for all citizens, regardless of the specificities or differences, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, in what way do you think that you spend all of what the conventions provide as standards within the areas that we represent ourselves? What I would like to remind the government's representatives is this: the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia, so the total foreign debt of the Serbian state has already reached about $30 billion. To finance the current payment deficit of the planned 16.1% of gross domestic product, or more consumption than what we produce, Serbia needs foreign direct investment of around 1.7 billion euros in 2009, an additional net debt of 3.9 billion euros. Since Serbia also makes about 3.6 billion euros in debt in 2009 to finance our excessive spending, loans totalling 7.5 billion euros are needed. These are, ladies and gentlemen, you will admit, the irrefutable facts Serbia faces. What we can learn as MPs trying to carry out their constitutional obligation, which is the work of overseeing the work of the Serbian government, fail, due to the neglect of the Serbian government. We are simply living in a country that is slowly starting to look like a gulag, and in Parliament that is slowly beginning to resemble the disciplinary commission of Mr Tadic, who is sovereignly ruling Serbia. What is important and how important that the public in Serbia knows is – how does the Serbian government think to implement a full set of laws, especially to implement standards that are prescribed by conventions that are on the agenda today. One of the very important examples that I will now try to present, because I will only use ten minutes as an authorised representative in this report, is the example, given that the debate on the set of environmental laws has caused very much attention, and today we have two conventions that are from the field of ecology, so Saša Valjarevic, former Mayor of Požarevec, sent one information to the SRS Parliament Club for which I want the present representative of the Resor Ministry to know. Of course, by getting to know the Serbian public with one of the very drastic examples of political discrimination, I will give you this letter that we have received, and I hope that in some time you will provide feedback. So, when it comes to the overall environment and conventions that provide for and the availability of information, Mr Valjarevic is the most recent example when the state of Serbia is not handling citizens' interests, but only political and personal interests, so it is about the failure of the project to build a regional dump for the towns of Smederevo, Pogorec and the municipality of Kovin. In addition to the signed 2005 Agreement and providing funds worth 106m dinars from the Republic Environment Fund, 50m from the Ministry of National Investment Plan, the project has not been implemented. Mayor of Smedereva, Mr. Predrag Umicevic of DS, Mayor of the town of Požarec, then Saša Valjarevic of the SRS, then president of the Kovin municipality, held a series of meetings and presentations on the construction of the regional dump "Jelen Do" in Smederev. The project was not realised, as the mayor of Smederev was driven by political interests and did not accept the mayoral initiative of the town of Pozarevec to call a tender for the construction of a regional dump. Why didn't that fit the DS? It was not appropriate for such an important project to be implemented for the 200,000 inhabitants of the cities and municipalities mentioned, as in the city of Pozarevec, in the view of the Democrats, the mayor of the SRS and the SRS would receive support for the implementation of such a large and important project. Because of the project's unrealisation, the money worth 156 million dinars has failed. This created an opportunity to call an international tender, where the towns of Smederevo, Pozharec and Kovin municipalities would trust foreign partners from their public utility companies, the main activity of municipal waste management and public hygiene, thereby directly jeopardising public utility companies in these cities. For example, the larger towns of Leskovac and Jagodina, where many workers lost their jobs, three years after trusting foreign partners, were not built regional dumps in these cities. The former mayor of the town of Pozarevic, Sasa Valjarevic, warned new Mayor Miodrag Milosavljevic of the DS against agreeing to a proposal by the mayor of Smederev, who proposes to do the same, as was done in Leskovic and Jagodina. That is why Mr. Valjarevic asks Mr. Dulic, as well as all representatives from the ministry, to check all of this out and to prevent Mayor Umicevic's intention, because it is harmful for citizens and public enterprises in Smederev, Pozarevac and Kovina. Also, what Mr. Valjarevic's request is to seek responsibility for unrealising the construction of a regional dump and for the loss of 156 million funds to mention the project. So, ladies and gentlemen, that's reality in so-called. democratic Serbia after October 5th. Yesterday, I cited an example of the municipality of Zemun in which the UNDP chief manager suspends the project the moment Mrs Pop-Lazic took over as president of the Zemun municipality. We today, as well as all these days, will cite concrete examples of political discrimination by the SRS in all places where it exercises power or tries to implement its political programme to improve the lives of Serbian citizens by the ruling majority, in the first place, the DS. National MP Marina Ragush is handing over the papers to Minister Dulic. ) I informed you that I would only use ten minutes, I didn’t know that my microphone was on, so I apologize to both the public and my colleagues present. This is important information for the citizens of Serbia, it is our belief, we will try to prove it all these days, it is that the flagrant violation of the electoral will held in the elections. It is obvious that Serbia's elections under Mr Tadic's rule are no longer needed, it is our political confidence. Mr Tadic and the ruling coalition in the state of Serbia, in the first place the DS, are in complete control of Belgrade and Serbian media. But it'll be a topic for some of the next agenda points. I hope we get feedback just like we've been getting feedback for all the specific examples we've instructed these days. That would end my first call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17082	Thank you. I give my word to the People's Parliament to Miss Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17083	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me a little bit of time for a brief period before my speech, as I mentioned earlier, I believe that the importance of the institution, such as the National Assembly, the House of National Assembly buildings and this new hall, should be binding on all of us, dear colleagues, this is indeed a positive well-meaning suggestion, I respect everyone's style of speech, whether it be the MPs, whether it be the ministers. Of course the Rules of Procedure still haven't been regulated as we're going to talk here. Looking around us in Europe, I think that's how much we can do, this system is working perfectly. Yesterday we heard a very tall minister standing there talking, so I don't understand why he was sitting there today. I think it takes so much respect and dignity to show this building, to get up and turn around like that. In my discussion, I wanted first to sum up what we've been doing these days, and unfortunately I was prevented from attending Friday's debate. We first talked about the first set of laws that consisted of seven draft laws, of course, on the topic of environmental protection, i.e. environmental science. We talked about chemicals, biocidal products, waste, packaging, destruction of chemical waste, ionic and non-ionizing radiation, etc. The next day, yesterday, we talked all day about a second set of environmental laws that consisted of six draft laws. Among other things, these were the draft laws on environmental impact assessment, air protection, nature, noise, environment itself, meaning, roof fish fund laws, etc. Today we should talk about a very large set, I agree with the opposition, which contains 19 draft laws, all co-confirmation of various international conventions, agreements, contracts, protocols. Those who have looked closely and know that this is about several bilateral agreements with countries such as Romania, Spain, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Korea, etc. Mostly about areas of co-operation in fields like science, culture, education. Since I belong to the SVM within the Manjin Parliament Club, of course I would like to say first in my introduction a few sentences on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on co-operation in the fields of culture, education, science, youth and sport. First, on the one hand, I am very disappointed, or all of us, because the negotiations on this agreement have begun, and you will correct me if I am not precise, and I think I am already in 2002. He signed himself in 2004. We are all aware that today is the beginning of April 2009. We wonder why it took so many years for such an important agreement to be confirmed in the National Assembly. On the other hand, we must boast that as soon as this bill of approval of the Agreement has arrived in the assembly procedure, it is put on the agenda and we are talking about it. I don't think I need to explain in detail how important fields of science, culture, education for all of us and that actually citizens themselves, and of course it is important for us that the citizens of Hungary belonging to the Hungarian national minority will benefit in our country, in the Republic of Serbia, from confirming this agreement. We must also be aware that the Serb national minority in the Republic of Hungary will also benefit. In line with the topic that was actually topical, which could have been said all last week and yesterday, with the debate that had been going on in Parliament the past few days, I decided, as I mentioned, to talk about two conventions. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary to pay attention to the debate. We're really trying. It's not enough that we don't have all the government representatives here, and those who are here don't follow the debate at all. So, I've decided to talk about two conventions concerning ecology, like the minister himself at the beginning, has just explained. We all know that very big progress has been made in Europe and the world in the concept of business and sustainable use of nature and standards for sustainable rational management of natural goods have been reached. With all these standards, our country should finally agree as soon as possible. The first Convention on Ecology is the Convention on the Accessibility of Information, the participation of the public in decision-making and the right to legal protection in environmental matters. It sounds like it's also called the Archusa Convention, and those who benefit most from it, actually benefit from it, are themselves citizens, organisations and associations of citizens. The importance of confirming this Convention can be seen from several points of view. One and perhaps the most important for us here in the Balkans is that it represents the possibility of regional co-operation in this area, in the area of the environment. In the very explanation of this bill, which came to us from the government, we can see that this convention has so far ratified more than 40 countries, including almost all our neighbours, which is very significant. As I have already mentioned, and I would like to point out once again that the confirmation of the so-called Archus Convention and the consistent application of its provisions should be a presumption and a guarantee of respect for the rights of citizens and their associations themselves, and what is very important, it should guarantee more active participation, involving citizens in making environmental decisions. The second international convention to be confirmed is the Rotterdam Convention. Its name is the Rotterdam Convention on the procedure for granting consent on the basis of prior notification of certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides in international trade. Its essence, and the Rotterdam Convention, is the division of responsibilities and co-operation in international trade with certain dangerous chemicals, all for the protection of human health and the environment. What is significant, i.e. why this Convention should be confirmed, is a major saving through the exchange of information on the properties of various chemicals, which should help make decisions on their imports easier. It's really important, especially for countries like ours. It's important to protect against improper use of chemicals. For example, in the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, many other less developed countries have not sufficiently developed public awareness of all the dangers that can cause excessive use or inadequate use of chemicals, especially pesticides. As we have heard from the above debate on many environmental laws, one of the many conditions of EU accession, which we are all seeking, is respect for regulations, i.e. compliance with the requirements, inter alia, and environmental protection. All of this should contribute to the introduction of clean technologies, regulation of the repeatedly mentioned energy consumption. I'll use time for an authorised representative. That's what we agreed yesterday. I'm just finishing up a few more sentences. I'm sorry, it was a practice yesterday. In other words, energy efficiency will increase and we should finally plan to determine ourselves according to other values. Since I'm surprised here and I'm running out of time, I'll just say the next one. The Minister explained to us what the amendment to the Annex to the Annex B Kyoto Protocol means, but my final word is actually the following – starting with that the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians is a party to EU accession, a vote for this set of laws on the validation of international conventions, agreements, etc. There will be another proof that we are really in favour of contemporary European values, both in the environment and in all other areas. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17084	Thank you. He's got a word if he wants to, Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17085	Of course I do, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to begin my presentation where approximately the distinguished colleague Elvira Kovac has finished. I have an objection to the explanation that we just saw through the media and often use it, especially for this set of laws that we had on the agenda yesterday, and here, now we have ratifications of these agreements, international conventions and agreements, some of which have something to do with yesterday's debate, some of which are not, some are put into a united debate and it's all about other issues, like sports or some other conventions. But in any case, I think it is wrong to cite an explanation, which went first and foremost into electronic media, which was preceded by the public service of RTS, which was given by people who belong to the ruling majority in Serbia, I am building on the minister, I have not heard him, although I have tried to hear him say something like that, however, he did not say that for the adoption of these laws, the main argument of European integration and the approximation of Serbia is the EU. I believe that the confirmation of these conventions and the adoption of these laws is primarily our need to meet the world's standards. In some areas, let's say, when we talk about Kyoto protocol, it's much broader than the EU, but I think it's primarily the need of our citizens, our country, our environment, flora and fauna, cities, the environment in which we live. If we want these laws to be applied, it is not important to just pass them, because the adoption of these laws will not bring us closer to the EU. We have now received them and we will bring them, I suppose most of them will also vote these laws, but even when they are voted, the EU will watch, gentlemen, who are in such a hurry in the EU, whether we apply them, what capacity do we apply them with, or if that is a dead letter on paper. It cannot be entered into the EU by just passing I don't know how many hundreds of laws, thinking we'll be part of the EU. No, we have to be that way by all standards and that's the difference between the DSS and this ruling majority. I've said that many times. We always say that the EU is becoming and that it is not going to the EU. Well, on these differences, we will continue to build arguments that we will compete with, hopefully politically, not conflict, because we have never been for conflict, but always for competition. I will refer most to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Amendment to the Annex B Kyoto Protocol with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. This convention, which was adopted in 1997, we are a Member State of the Convention of 1 June 2001, and Kyoto Protocols of 17 January 2008; therefore, from about a year and a half or a year ago and something, those who were MPs in the last meeting should remember that we discussed it in that second hall of Parliament. This would not be so much discussed, because this amendment applies as we have heard in Belarus, so it is changing within the Kyoto protocol of Belarus's status. Interestingly, I, too, was glad to say then and now I am saying that Serbia has entered the ranks of globally responsible countries, including Russia, as we see Belarus, among which the EU is complete, which has otherwise led one major action back years to protect the environment and defend the environment in the world. Otherwise, the President of Belarus was recently in Serbia, and we all know that Mr. Lukashenko was in Kopalnik. Unfortunately, at the same time, he was the president of the Serbian state in Kopalnik and he did not meet with him. He sent him government representatives, but he avoided meeting with the president of such a great state, I don't know why?- I'm sorry. Does he perhaps think that he would be resented by seeing Lukashenko those who are globally irresponsible? Is it necessary for those who are globally irresponsible to be greater friends and to work with them in every way possible, without any dignity, that this country should have and its authority, and what country is globally irresponsible in this matter, that is the United States. They're the ones that make the most of the disturbances to apply Kyoto protocol, and they're also making the most of the problems about ozone holes, ozone envelopes and years of persistently refusing, and I see that these days you're also sharing the books of one of their former vice presidents on the subject to help the world. We are talking about the problems we have in Serbia as well. I'll look back on the two problems we have. First of all, as far as environmental science is concerned, and regarding this globally irresponsible state, the United States, the problem was created in 1999 by violent, unfair, non-civilization bombings on Serbia and in this respect I will read you a few sentences, which you should all listen to well. What Jamie Shay said at the time, otherwise a NATO Pact spokesman, these days is the current topic, I see yesterday's "Polygraph", today's "Cagefinger", is only talking about what Serbia needs to do surrounded the NATO Pact countries and why it should remain military neutral. Here's what Jamie Shay said at the time, just to confirm that story – Serbs need to be calmly bombed, all of this will soon be forgotten. English yellow leaf "San", writing adds – shoot them like dogs! That's why they used uranium, a substance whose half-life is four and a half billion years, is practically eternal. Except for biological weapons, they have applied everything that modern civilization has - chemical, conventional and nuclear weapons, and they have just wanted their ammunition to act at least triple, combined, cumulative and synergy, just like their trinity: greed, profit and prestige. They gave themselves prestige, and Serbia euthanasia and corpses. Today, 10 years later, as a direct consequence, a completely changed picture of birth, disease and death in Serbia. Only cancer dies almost twice as much. Infertile marriages, spontaneous abortions, dead-born children, children born with severe defects. Serbian scientific institutions have found large amounts of uranium and numerous chemicals in plants, animals, domestic and wild, water, air and people in Serbia. Genetic changes are most tangible and most important for these consequences are at least 10 times more than has been known so far, and they were found not full three years after the bombing stopped, because the bombing stopped, but the aggression on Serbia and day-to-day. Because of all this, many future Serbs will not arrive because they were killed before birth, even before conception, after their mothers were sterilized. In these words, I would like to thank Dr Radomir Kovacevic. We all need to imagine what happened to Serbia. When and how Serbia will mitigate the consequences of this if we do not have a real relationship with what happened 10 years ago. Secondly, we have this example. I'm from the city of Smederev. I saw in one situation that the minister praised the newly criticised mayor. I'll say it's an irresponsible and incompetent man, related to the privatisation of Sartide. I'll remind you that it happened less than a month after the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, sort of in a hurry. At the time, the government, which had no legitimacy, because whoever voted to be Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, transferred the procedure through the bankruptcy sale of Sartida, not through the competent Businessman in Pozarevec, but through a court in Belgrade, so it even transferred that authority to speed. In a state of emergency, in a state of war the Sartid of Ju-ES "style" of America was sold. What happened after that? Yu-es. The "style" didn't invest money, at least not as much as expected, just started what Serbia had done before. That other tall stove was there. The Socialists know that, they can ask Mr. Duško Matkovic if it was like that or not, except that there were no trade funds at the time, there were sanctions, but I'll say some more things people don't know. That iron man broke the sanctions in the '90s. She exported Lim to the Duferco company in Italy. She got credit arrangements from Austria Bank. Her biggest confidants, i.e. To whom she owed the most were, interestingly, these four banks, which were somehow liquidated at the same time. That's what I used to talk to the SPS gentlemen about in the first half of this decade, but somehow they've been quiet lately, not talking about these things. Merne stations bought by the state of Serbia came first to Smederevo, not Panchevo. It's interesting that yesterday we were talking about Panchev, the Vorbas, we were talking about environments where our economy, our businessmen, our old inherited problems, but we weren't talking about where our problem was being made by Americans, and they're making us in Ju-ES' style. They completely started what we did earlier, put both high furnaces into drive, rolling stock, steel, everything, that's true, they did it, and then they destroyed our road infrastructure, they use the old port, they don't make a new port, and I'm saying that the land next to the metal bridge for the new port is worth more than they paid "The Iron." They don't make a track to the Ironworks and pollute the extremely Smederevo, especially three villages – Radinac, Ranovo and Ralja around. Mr. Minister, the $50 million you mentioned with the incompetent Mayor Umicevic, we have been listening to this story from Americans since 2004-2005, investment in environmental protection. None of that is going to happen now, because your mayor has private business with the company Ju-ES "style". His private company works within the company and as he stopped building a regional dump, when two cities, and one municipality agreed, arranged everything, prepared with the government, where your party participated, then you were president of the Assembly, he now collapsed and has no smart solution for it. You've now received data from the SRS, please check. I want to say one more thing. We need to be more responsible to ourselves. We have to deal better with these issues and problems. We must do this for our own sake, not for the accelerated convergence of the EU. She's not going anywhere, there's, let's make a state, so we can be as strong as a Czech woman, who, Malten, doesn't feel the economic crisis. Let's work on our standards, let's work on what our potentials are, not wasting our time in some pointless race for what we hear, and anyway, they're putting it off for the next decade, so for the next decade. Once again, it is necessary to confirm and vote in favour of all these conventions, and among other things, for this Convention on the Confirmation of the Amendment to the Annex B Kyoto Protocol, but when these laws are passed, they should be applied. It won't mean anything if we don't apply them and not selectively, not just the Back Channel, and keep quiet to the Americans because they're poisoning a city of 120,000 inhabitants. If we're cleaning the Back Channel, they have to invest 50 million dollars to stop the Irons from poisoning these citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17086	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17087	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express my disdain over the fact that the debate on 19 points of the agenda is united, which you call ratification of the agreement and in which actions are placed: doping in sport, cultural co-operation, cooperation in the field of art and education, confirming agreements on diplomatic official passports with Israel and India, some ratifications in which Kosovo appears as a signatorium country and among what is very dangerous, such as this last said about the treatment of KIM, I say, and what should be good practices for every country that wants to co-operate in all areas, under point 30 and 31 are two ratifications of a heavy 66m, possible loans, euros, but also the commitments that we can achieve from what we can achieve and obligations towards the budget of the Republic of Serbia and only one of them where the 'Banka for the development of the Council of Europe' offers us 20m euros, and we are obliged to provide 11 million euros. Do these two offer ratification agreements deserve so much attention that at least we can explain the purpose, the way these funds are invested, the control of their investment, and what are the effects, since we are already seriously in charge of the countries? You said it did not deserve attention by the fact that no one explained these two international agreements and the very way of refusing to comment that the country of Serbia is in a group of seriously in charge countries concerned me. The International Monetary Fund, which has ceased to play only an advisory role in this country and with which we are conducting negotiations on entering a serious arrangement, called not only monitoring the economic situation, but an arrangement in which the IMF claims to lead our economic policy, is talking these days about Serbia, apart from Latvia and Estonia, belonging to a group of countries that have serious problems with the number and level of loans taken in foreign currency. Only this fact obliges you to justify these two loans to Serbian citizens and MPs, of whom you expect assistance and well-meaning in the ratification of these contracts. Spanish is a special story and what is called – we give you a million euros in donations, to lend you 45m euros in credit for our goods and services, is something to pay attention to in the second part of my discussion. This first one, because of the citizens of Serbia, requires my commitment to inform the citizens of what the Government or the minister did not do, that "The Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe" is a kind of social bank in which we have been a member since 1956, that our founding role in the bank is significant and that, as Serbia-Montenegro, since 2003, we have used loans to build refugee apartments, to help municipalities, to help hire, to help eliminate the effects of floods in Banat, and that we have already used one loan to resuscitate the effects of the skate in Serbia. Now, this loan is for the same purpose and is talking about taking 20 million credits, and that the Serbian government is going to give the 20 million more and 250 000 euros on those 20 million in order to tackle the consequences of the slide. I have a problem with the Government that despite the established Public Debt Administration, the Government does not find it appropriate to say that what we get under more favourable conditions than commercial, but still not enough favourable for a country as our own, so the government owes Serbian citizens an explanation – from which means will it have the opportunity to repay these loans? These are not donations, and when they are, they are not free, because they are conditioned by a certain kind of behavior. And this isn't a donation! This is a loan to be provided in this poverty, and I am interested in whether the Government has taken care of two things – the priority for taking the funds for this purpose, the opportunities to use them, and whether, by any chance, God has already used these funds, as she has done with the previous loan for this purpose, which was 10m euros, and the government has already spent 6m euros at the time it asked the Assembly for ratification. I ask you that the citizens of Serbia, MPs of the Serbian Parliament, do not appreciate so little that you will ask us to spend what you have already spent and there is no excuse for the surprise of the situation, such as the abuse of these institutes – it is urgent, so we need to do something without public procurement. The state itself is doing what it criticises its public enterprises, both in public procurement and in international borrowing. Please, your election campaign doesn't last from cycle to cycle, from government election, and then you do the job, so in the new election cycle you're campaigning. No, the election campaign in this country does not stop and the majority of ministers are engaged in an election campaign, not by work, not by planning their duties, not by calculating the effects of these loans and the possibilities to return them, but by just talking about their similarity to get to them, and without any explanation – from which you will repay the loan. In the Memorandum of Budgetary Policy, with a projection by 2011, you published very precise data on the state of public debt and the level of social product from which the debt will be returned. Number 92, page 99. "The official messenger of the Republic of Serbia", where the memorandum was published, says that in millions of euros, the foreign debt of the state is 6.5 billion, I am talking about the rounded figure, and you say we are not too in charge. But it is calculated on the projection of a gross social product of 39 billion and with a growth of 3.2%. No one seriously in this country ever argues in Serbia that we have a social product with a negative prefix of minus 2%, and you continue to take credits to resuscitate the slide, which I suspect have already been spent in advance, whether for purposes written in the loan agreement, I don't know that, but in this contract, it says that the one who gives that money will have the right to verify it. I hope you won't get a negative rating for this, but you are obliged to lower your gross social product, or the possibility of taking credit, even though we already have signed agreements with those who give us those credits. For me, this government is very irresponsible because what is called an opportunity to spend money without giving us an account of how much we pay the principal and how much we pay the interest on those principals, it simply means that you don't have a long-term commitment to exercise responsible authority. Whenever these loans are spoken of, it is said how long they are by their own hand, and with some delayed return obligations, and when you just open that page 29. Memoranda, every citizen will have a chance to see that we pay a lot more interest than we pay and a principal for loans that were once long-term, and now here we have arrived to return both principals and interest. You can't get exactly how much public debt this year makes this country, which is its obligation. Governor Jelasic, with Dinkic, is going to negotiate in Austria on private loans from banks and businesses and on the application that foreign banks, or we call them domestic, but their headquarters are abroad, implementing the programme, so they postpone these loans. I won't forget to repeat here that these credits they call a crossboarder came because Governor Jelasic ran the wrong monetary policy, with an expensive minimum reserve, so the credit and business users were directed to take loans from the bank's queens who are here, because it's cheaper for the percentage of the mandatory reserve. And now, instead of having all the economic brains and all the economic power concentrated in the government, both in the National Bank, and in the Council of the Monetary Committee, and in the National Bank Council, thinking about the credit for which they are directly responsible, which is a public debt of 6.5 billion euros, we are offered with 19 important but diverse agreements with two new loans, one of which is for the recovery of the slide, and the other for the financing of the sale of Spanish goods. I will mention that in one of the previous sessions in the same way, in a united debate, you provided us with a loan from the same institution worth 10m euros, but had another social purpose, to build permanent housing units for refugee settlements, i.e. refugees and former refugee households. Dear citizens, it says in brackets, for refugees who have received citizenship from the Republic of Serbia. Although it is money and credit, in this place I must remind myself that there are many who cannot enter this barrier, that there are still people in this country of Serbia who have been waiting for years to get the citizenship of the state they live in. Although this is about loans and an irresponsible government still in debt, not taking care of who's going to pay back, I must remind you that it is your obligation to give citizenship to those who live in this country and that it is truly inhumane to continue to postpone it. What is a particular problem with the second loan is called the financial co-operation programme between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Spain with Annex. Spain offers us one million euros in donations, and then offers us the opportunity to withdraw 45m euros in loans to finance the purchase of brand-new Spanish goods and services. The Spanish government reserves the right for its authority, which is called the Council of Ministers of Spain, to still approve everything that we will agree to if we agree to further co-operation. But there is a very precise condition in Article 3 that this government and any government before it have completely forgotten since 2000, which is to protect domestic industry, domestic production and domestic producers, but the Spanish don't forget it. They say – these funds will be used on the basis of individual contracts to finance the following: 100% of all new goods and services of Spanish origin. Article 4 says -- customs duties and taxes, if any, established by the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia, will not be financed by the funds provided for by this programme. So, Serbian friends, if you have any expenses related to the import of goods and services that we, as good hosts and good managers of the Spanish economy, sell to the credit we give you, you won't be able to earn, God forbid, through customs or services, because you are the state that has proven yourself happy to take loans, to gladly open doors and liberalize everything for foreign goods imports, without in any way protecting its domestic industry. What is interesting, in article 6, says the parties agree that the funds are used to finance projects or contracts that will be allocated to Spanish firms. And in each of the following articles, where public procurement procedures are envisaged, in the sense of an open competition procedure for Spanish companies that will sell to us, it stands hundreds of times over – for Spanish companies and services to Spanish companies, and services to companies from Spain that produce Spanish goods. Yes, the tender can be announced in both Serbia and Spain, but here they will get the job on the side because they are used to us making it possible for other people's economies and foreign industries to develop, and to the detriment of these citizens and this country. What I am further concerned about in this situation is one of the requirements of the IMF that is being smuggled into a secret document, owned by the Financial Times and published in all relevant media, so another request, which we have been faced with recently, as a poll, so that our citizens, our political parties and institutions will react if we replace the dinar with the euro. So, the IMF has a proposal that all high-indebted countries, where Serbia is third in their classification, replace the domestic currency with the euro. I will remind the citizens that a month and a half ago in all our media, we had a question – and what would it look like with us, if even the governor had answered such a question. And we were all wondering where that question came from right now. That you do not have a dilemma, as in the puppet theatre, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia can present itself, imposes questions, imposes dilemmas and probes on the public whether the state can also lose that part of monetary sovereignty and before joining the EU. Is the National Bank the way it has been, completely separated from the Ministry of Finance, from the prime minister, from the economic policy, from the Public Debt Administration, which must take care of the weight of these loans we're talking about today, in general, that it has the right to run its own monetary, monetary and credit policy? No, it's not, because it wasn't managed by citizens' interests either, because it unreservedly advertised credit and borrowing to them, bringing every citizen, every family and every company into the state of the ideal debtor, as a desirable way of acting, as a post-modern lifestyle – you only borrow a loan. Remember, it was just a dilemma whether to be in charge in francs or in euros, etc. This same National Bank, a completely wrong monetary policy, which has dealt with trade with foreign banks in repo operations, rather than lending through business banks, rather than directly, has led this economy into a situation that our citizens today need to learn whether and which bank is accounting for the eurobor, whether on a six-month level, on a three-month basis and whether and when it aligns it as a cost that will affect the citizen and his home budget. Has anyone who has signed this request for loans given reason to Serbian citizens whether the eurobor, which writes here, will be accounted for three months or six months and what is the projection of this cost, and what is the effect of investing from the credit that we are taking in this way? Does anyone else need to give citizens an explanation for that? They say this is a neoliberal market economy. Yes, the market should be, but the state in it must not lose its role. And in such an economy, a citizen can't take responsibility for the government, and he doesn't need to take responsibility for his own decisions -- whether he'll take credit and how much he'll cost, but a citizen from the government has to get an answer on how effective the real interest is, and what is the one that's being advertised and whether, indeed, by destroying the domestic banking system, we've got a competitive banking system where we have interest on loans to similar countries in the environment. In the exam, the government fell, and citizens today are appalled by the payments they receive for credit, as the eurobore rose by one hundred percent in one year. Even when it was certain that the euro was going to grow at such a pace, as since August 2007, the financial crisis has shown its true face, the government has continued to be in debt, not at any time asking itself a question, or presenting itself to the citizens as responsible, and what it has done with, according to Mr Dinkic, 17 billion euros inflows of foreign capital, which, by acquisitions from privatisation, which, by foreign direct investment, and which, by increasing total debt to $30 billion. World experts say giving this kind of business new loans and getting into new arrangements with the IMF is the same thing as giving cocaine to a drug-dependent patient. Which moment, from now on, will be more suitable for the government to ask whether it is better to get money to invest in what is called production, not just financial manipulations and virtual development, or whether we will turn to what is called a responsible relationship with public funds, according to a budget from which these loans will be returned and in the name of that account and provide a report on each euro that we leave behind for future generations as debts. In that sense, the SNS and the Progressive Parliamentary Group, Serbia cannot support such a policy of further borrowing, without any indication of the effects and those obligations that remain for future generations, and we will not vote for such proposals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17088	The word is from Ambassador Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17089	The Honorable Chairman, respected gentlemen of ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, today 19 ratifications of different agreements that the National Assembly should ratify and confirm, and these are agreements with countries in the environment, EU countries and other countries of the world, as well as certain agreements that are of a multilateral nature. The authorities of these agreements are ecology, co-operation in economics, culture, sports and youth, art, in scientific – technical co-operation, traffic, and the part relating to air traffic, and two loans. At first, I would like to say that the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of ratification of all 19 agreements. Now I'm going to talk about two agreements. One agreement is between the state of Serbia and the neighbouring countries of Romania and another agreement is a framework loan that the state of Serbia should ratify with the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Romania concerns economic, scientific and technical co-operation and the agreement was signed in Belgrade on 24 October 2008. When we talk about this agreement, we need to say a few statistics on what relations between Serbia and Romania are now like, which is already a member of the EU. As far as economic co-operation between these two countries is concerned, the exchange of goods currently dominates and, importantly, the amount of goods exchanged between these two countries is growing considerably each year. According to statistics, in 2003, the trade between the state of Romania and Serbia was $200m, and already in 2007, the trade in goods came out, somewhere, at $690m. The second thing that is also important is long-term co-operation in the exploitation and maintenance of two hydropower plants, which are Gerdap 1 and Gerdap 2. I think good relations in the area of energy between Romania and Serbia have proved to have to be extended to other areas of the economy. Analysis shows that it can also be co-operated in the chemical, petrochemical industry, food industry, agricultural machinery and means of transport, as well as in the tourism sector. The important thing is that at this point in particular the border areas of the state of Serbia and Romania, there are over 730 mixed companies registered. I think, for these reasons, it is very important to ratify one such agreement and institutionally regulate economic, technical and other co-operation between Romania and Serbia. What this agreement also envisions is the formation of a mixed commission composed of representatives of our country and representatives of Romania, which will monitor the application of this agreement and which will meet annually at least, and possibly several times, to analyse the effects of the application of this agreement. The commission, in addition, will have the role to analyse the proposed measures to develop economic co-operation between Serbia and Romania, encourage co-operation in other areas, inform stakeholders of possible investment investments in one or another country, promote technical and scientific co-operation and co-operation between the private and public sectors and, what is very important, control how this agreement is applied. What is also important is that Romania is currently an EU member, has crossed a thorny path that awaits us, the state of Serbia, in the future, and I am sure that, using the good experiences that Romania has had, we can do certain things in some easier ways, and that means easier access to the European Community. As far as the second agreement is concerned, which is a loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. It was signed on 11.12.2008. Its task is to withdraw funds that will be spent on removing the gliding effects activated in March 2006. I would like to remind the MPs that in March 2006, after the long rains on the entire territory of the Serbian state, we had floods in the northern part of our territory, and from Sava and Danube, therefore, central Serbia and southern Serbia and the western, large slides that threatened both human households, auxiliary facilities, and water and sewerage and roads and all that is related to one local infrastructure. Also, I would like to remind the MPs that part of the damage caused by these rinks has been recovered by joint activities of local self-government and state. However, a good portion of these damages have not yet been resolved. There are examples in every city and municipality in Serbia starting with Kragujevac, Leskovec, Nis, and my King, where I come from as a National MP, a really large number of problems resulting from this elemental disaster that has not yet been solved. What is envisioned by this agreement is that the total value of the project is about 31m euros, 20m euros are withdrawn under favourable conditions from the Bank of the Council of Europe, and 11m euros must be provided, and this has been provided by the state through the 2009 budget. What is important for this project is that it will have four components: 1) The first component is, what is called the component in the project proposal, to ensure construction and repair of around 174 houses in 28 municipalities of Serbia and to build objects of general importance in several places, and when we say of general importance, think of kindergartens and health institutions. 2) The second component refers to the construction of water lines and sewerage networks, and low voltage power power grids, as these infrastructure facilities are also destroyed in rinks, and these funds will also be used to repair, i.e. to build new infrastructure facilities. 3) The third component refers to the recovery of land that threatens houses and other public buildings. So, if you do again, God forbid, there are the same natural disasters that will be very easy to bring down the land. Rehabilitation, i.e. building support walls, must be carried out. 4) The fourth component relating to the construction of local roads and as suggested in the project proposal is about 90km of local roads that were damaged or destroyed in March 2006. What is important here is to point out that this project will cover 60 municipalities in Serbia. This isn't a single community project. This is a project for 60 municipalities in Serbia. It's important to spend these funds to get what we inherited, and that's the consequence since 2006, it's been three years, finally to bring it into normal shape so that people can live easier. What I'm trying to say is the speed at which these funds will be spent and these projects will be completed. There is the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure, and if I am not mistaken, I am also the 'Road of Serbia' to carry out supervision, or management of this project. After the ratification of this agreement I expect that there is really no more responsibility on someone else, the responsibility is entirely upon us. I expect that what is planned, which is that this project ends in 2010, really ends in 2010, and that we can get a report that 31m euros is adequately spent and that what is planned has been done, and that the quality of life of people living where these projects are being done is at a higher level than it is now. Finally, I would like to say, on behalf of the G17 Group of MPs plus I call on all other parliamentary groups to support all 19 agreements, because all 19 agreements represent a benefit for the state of Serbia and its citizens at this time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17090	Thank you. Mr Milan Vučković has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government, I am extremely glad that today among these 19 ratifications, we have three that even partially touch the field of sport. We are talking about two bilateral agreements between our country, with Hungary and the Czech Republic, and the third is the bill to confirm the international anti-doping convention in sport. I'd like to take a few minutes of your time to explain to you why I think we should adopt this convention unanimously. It's about doping in sports, doping as taking certain substances to improve physical performance, strength, endurance, they certainly didn't come from sports. Probably, like many other things, they came from war, among warriors, soldiers, in order to achieve a better result on the battlefield, a myth about a magical potion that gives incredible power and a victorious elan army exists in many cultures, and it has also found its expression in modern art, let's say, a cartoon about Asterix. Generally, in sports, more serious research, more serious application of doping starts somewhere in the 19th century, and that, above all, in those sports that are directly related to major straines, endurance, the need to endure more hours in these sports efforts. It was first swimming, and then cycling and over time was transmitted and accepted into other sports, as they would say. At the time, various assets were taken that were in hand, say, cocaine, etc. However, then the first negative effects of drug use in the 19th century appear, and the first deaths of doping are recorded. So this magic potion soon showed its dark side and began to take its toll. Since then, medicine has progressed at an incredible rate, and drugs have made progress, science and the number and scope of the funds used have increased and increased. The East German case is well known, which, according to the testimony of many athletes at the time, had as a state strategy to win the Olympic Games and other competitions, the practical doping of young people, minor children. Many of them are disabled today. Many of them died too soon. Many have hormonal disorders. It was a time of ideological struggle where any victory or gold medal at the Olympic Games meant victory of ideology. It is known that when ideological battles are fought they do not ask for victims, or people, individuals are in ideological battles a negligible item. Many other countries were not immune to the use of these funds either. That is why the international community has been constantly trying to put the use of these funds under certain control, and that is why we now have ratification of this UNESCO Convention. It was signed in 2005, October 19th in Paris. It took effect on 1 February 2007, for all those countries that ratified it by the end of 2006, there were 52 countries. And for all those who have ratified it or will ratify it after that period, it shall enter into force first in the month following the end of the month of the ratification of the Convention. So far, about 100 countries in the world have ratified this convention. It should be stressed that by ratifying this convention, we will formally recognise the 'World Anti-doping Code' signed by the World Anti-doping Agency, with the aim of harmonising anti-doping rules in the world. So far, 570 sports organisations have accepted the "World Anti-doping Code", including the International Olympic Committee. The adoption of the UNESCO Convention in 2005 preceded the Copenhagen Declaration of Doping in Sports of 2003, which was an expression of political will to accept the 'World Anti-doping Code'. Our country signed it, at the time Minister Goran Svilanovic was ahead of Serbia-Montenegro and signed the declaration. But we haven't ratified this convention yet, and now it's on the agenda. However, although we have not accepted it, it does not mean that we are behind the world in the fight against doping, against illicit funds and drug abuse in order to achieve better results. Our Anti-doping Agency of the Republic of Serbia has received confirmation from the World Anti-doping Agency that the code is complicated, or compatible with the 'World Anti-doping Code'. Also, our law, which was passed in 2005, the Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports is based and based on that code. Until we ratify this convention, and I hope that we will do so unanimously in this assembly, as we did on the Youth and Sports Committee, we formally do not recognise it because we did not recognise the 'World Anti-doping Code'. This can also produce negative consequences for our athletes. The 2010 World Olympics are in Vancouver, the Winter Olympics, and unless we accept it, our athletes would not be able to participate in the competition. It is only one of the practical consequences, and there are both the ethical and foreign policy consequences that our country would bear, unless by an emergency procedure, it ratifys this Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, sport today, except for the reputation and glory he's brought forever, he's bringing huge money or he can bring it to his actors. They're not just athletes, they're coaches, they're administrations, they're doctors, and they're all people who help athletes. That is why it is a great challenge for young people and for those who help them to find a shortcut to a better result through the use of doping. It is ours, as Parliament, to unanimously underline, to support this convention, to ratify it as Parliament and to show that we believe in fair play, to believe in sport and most importantly, to believe in the health of athletes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17092	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Pejcic. The remaining time for the DSS is 10 minutes. Please press the key.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17093	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, are before us the conventions that this Parliament must ratify. I will look back, as well as my former esteemed colleague Mr. Vukkovic, I will talk about the International Convention against Doping in Sports, for one simple reason, coming from that sphere. I was a longtime athlete, actively involved in federal rank, coached in federal rank, and from that position, I think it's much easier for me to speak than any other MP. However, in this pre-named agenda, I expected to talk about this convention in person. Also, I expected to talk before this convention about one roof law, which is the Law on Sports and I am extremely sorry that this law did not enter into this assembly procedure, because in this way we send a bad message to our athletes – that the state is not thinking about them, and otherwise it has proved to be a bad example in previous Summer Olympics, when one sports nation has won only three medals, it is two silver and one bronze. I mean the Serbian sports nation, which expects its athletes to permanently bring some medals from major world or Olympic events. This is an obvious example of the government's relationship with athletes, to young people who want to get involved in these sports waters. Now let's get back to the subject, and that's doping. As my former colleague Vukkovic said, doping is a physiological or chemical substance that leads to improved working ability or sports skills. The greatest virtue of modern sport is that sports spirit, and the greatest values of sport are, above all, fair-play, health, strengthening of collective spirit, strengthening ethics, honesty and using doping in modern sport is precisely contrary to these values, which I have stated. Doping wasn't invented by athletes or their coaches. Doping was invented a lot, a lot earlier. Many military leaders gave to their soldiers to create false courage, false endurance, false morality. In modern history, we see that certain countries are like DRN, i.e. The eastern German, or eastern bloc developed this technology of doping, even deliberately and intentionally giving its athletes that doping means to show up in the world as a great sports nation. These were used, as I said, by the countries of the eastern bloc, Germany, Bulgaria and many others. In modern sports doping is used in individual sports, such as cycling, athletics, swimming. We had the opportunity to see that the winners of the great cycling races, such as "Giro d'Italia" or "Tur d'Frans", were deprived of the title precisely for this reason, because after the doping tests, it was seen that they were using some doping means and therefore their title was taken away. Today there's a large battery of tests that controls the use of doping. Some countries, like ours, have a law to prevent doping in sport. One of the most rigorous is in Italy, where a sportsman who tends and deliberately takes doping can be punished from three months to three years. With us, since we have this Law on the Prevention of Doping in Sports, our law is a little bit more liberal and it is foreseen for one year for one who is found to be deliberately using doping funds. There is a first category of sanctions, introduced by the Olympic Committee, introduced by resolute sports alliances, which refers to the possibility that Olympic committees or sports alliances can forbid them from a sports competition or take away their title. The second category of sanctions implies that the state authorities respond and they can bring certain sanctions, such as criminal and legal and criminal measures that can be, as I said, up to a year. I sincerely expect us to accept this convention here unanimously all together, because we send a clear message to the world and local public – to the world public that we will respect the international convention and that it will see in us a strategic partner in the prevention and elimination of doping in sport, and to the local public that this society protects all young athletes who enter professional waters and that human life is much more important to us than any medal. So, I invite you all to unanimously adopt this convention and thank you for listening to me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17094	Thank you. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word. Time is available for four minutes and forty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17095	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, these five minutes, I will be looking to look back at the laws and ratifications that are on the agenda as soon as possible. First of all, I have to say that it is absolutely pointless to link the doping points in sport, which concern loans from the DBRD or the financial arrangement with Spain, to points concerning air traffic or points concerning cultural co-operation with certain countries and the issue of diplomatic passports. I'll look back here on air traffic and credit arrangements, but I don't think there's anyone here from the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Finance who I can ask questions concerning these laws. I really don't think we just don't have the conditions to be able to do this job in a good way. In any case, as regards the law on co-operation with Romania, on scientific, economic and technical co-operation with Romania, it is quite fine, and as Mr Nesovic said earlier, it will bring us enlargement of that co-operation. As we have seen in the proposal for this material since November 2006, this agreement has been ratified, and it was only signed in October 2008, so I am interested – what has the Minister of Economy and Regional Development been doing for two years? It is said in the explanation that it did not join the signing, because it simply did not get the opportunity to sign. As for the credit arrangement with Spain, the credit arrangement implies that we will withdraw 45m euros in goods from Spain, plus a million euros in donations that will remain in Spain, as the Spanish government will give that donation to its state-owned study firm and for various surveys. I ask the question to all of us and to the public of Serbia, especially the Minister, who is not present – what benefit will Serbia benefit from, who is in the interest of having Serbia as a high-indebted country, the third in Europe, according to the IMF report, enters new credit arrangements in the moments of the world's greatest crisis, when I am the president of the Republic and the head of the ruling coalition Boris Tadic asks everyone to defend domestic jobs at all costs?- I'm sorry. Will loans and financial arrangements, which are in the form of goods, defend domestic jobs or defend jobs in the business of Spain and the citizens of Spain?- I'm sorry. It is truly unreasonable to take credits like this at times like this, especially when it comes to the fact that we are a high-indebted country and that we will have an additional negative impact on the loss of home jobs and on the loss of activity of the domestic economy. What's crucial here, as far as these ratifications are concerned, and as far as many interests are concerned, are ratifications of conventions and contracts concerning air traffic. These conventions were signed in 2004, i.e. the Government evaluated them and adopted them in 2006 and in 2007, and only in 2009 do they come, now, to ratification in the Assembly. During that time, as a monopolies in Serbia, JAT air carrier, carried out all of his flights from Belgrade, and no other airport, or other international airport in Serbia, Nis, could have had free flights, nor could other companies carry passengers from Nis, although they were interested, because of the monopolistic relationship both JAT and Belgrade's Airport. We are all talking about unbalanced development, the backdrop of southern Serbia, how citizens of this part of Serbia are the poorest, how there are the most unemployed, and what we can do on our own, which is a quality of air traffic, a greater number of passengers, and thus an increase in the intensity of the economy, an increase in employment, because it is a clear fact that every job at one airport is drawing from seven to ten other jobs in the accompanying activities and services. Of course, when compared to the fact that Belgrade Airport has 15m euros in profits this year, and two million and 650 000 passengers across from the airport who have 22,000 passengers and losses are clear enough and clear enough to lead us to conclude that monopolistic relations between parts of Serbia that are underdeveloped and that everything that happens in Belgrade cannot be good for all Serbia. If only Belgrade is developing, if only Belgrade's airport is developing, and we have funding from the state and airport in Batajnica, which is completely unreasonable, then there is no improvement for the rest of Serbia. We will have even greater migration from that part of Serbia and even greater decomposition in both development and standard. With no more time left, the DSS MP Group will support the ratifications of these air transport conventions, but as far as financial contracts with Spain are concerned, we certainly will not, as this is harmful for both Serbia's economy and for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17096	This is what we'd do in the morning. Based on article 85, I'm setting a break. We'll start at 2:45. The first next MP to receive the word is Miss Marina Ragush. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] Good afternoon. We'll continue the afternoon session. According to an announcement from this afternoon, Miss Marina Ragush has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17098	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Ladies and gentlemen, what the SRS will insist on is the way and methodology of implementing all the standards that these conventions, which are now on the agenda, provide and should be implemented. With this in mind, we express a very large reserve, especially when it comes to the sovereign part of a territory called KIM, and I expect to hear from the representatives of the Serbian government when all these laws, which should mean the possibility of approaching the EU, defined by the ruling coalition, will be able to apply to the part of KIM territory. It will certainly be a signal to us that we have a very serious government and a very serious state that has begun to deal, finally, with all those national prerogatives and to spread in the sovereign part of Kosovo and Metohija. Also, the public works, I need to express a protest in terms of merger, conditionally speaking, incompatible topics which are both of great importance for the everyday life of Serbian citizens. It's a word, if I've added it well, about the 19 conventions, which are connected in a way that is not quite acceptable to us, and it's very vague, but anyway, it's how it is. It wasn't up to us to decide this. I will try in a decent way, I hope, to present colleagues who, for known reasons, are unable to participate in the regular session of the National Assembly of Serbia. The mandated representative on this agenda was to be Mr Dejan Mirovic, who was finally working on the topics he considered to be of paramount importance for the current moment in which Serbia lies, which is burdened with major economic and social problems, in the first place by external debt now exceeding $30 billion. What we expect to hear from the government soon, too, is a new package of measures, a new arrangement with the IMF, and possibly to resolve all dilemmas, inconceivables and remove fears, whether the Argentine scenario is approaching Serbia. But let's finally get back to the agenda. The SRS believes the application of conventions on the agenda is of great importance to all citizens of the Serbian state. Their full application would mean a promotion, first of all, a set of human rights that are of paramount importance to the SRS. Human rights are essentially a prerequisite for civilised functioning of every state and modern society, but in order to apply it in practice, what is necessary is to literally apply basic conventions and protocols in this area. These days, we have cited some examples that are, in fact, conditionally speaking, plastic examples, so even brutal violations of basic human rights in modern, democratic, Serb society or what Serbian society should be or what it should seek. What is essential is that it is not enough for conventions and protocols only to be adopted by automation, without reading and understanding or adapting to Serbian practice, but rather, and what is the constraint of the SRS Parliament Club, all that is required by the community of the most developed European states and societies should be tailored by the benefits of the transfer to the circumstances and specificities of the Serbian society and the Serbian state. If that is not the case, then it is really very difficult to think about and the purpose of the law package, and in particular about the proposals of the law to confirm the conventions that should enter into force. What is important, too, is that this set of protocols and conventions that we are considering today, each selective application inevitably leads to the abuse of these rights and to double standards that lead to, for example, the practice for Serbian citizens not being subject to certain human rights, but to the citizens of the West. As for the concrete solutions set out in the Bill on Confirmation of a Strategic Co-operation Agreement, let's say, the Republic of Serbia and the European Police Office, the SRS is not against co-operation between our police and European police. On the contrary, this co-operation cannot be seen separately from the general context between Brussels and our country. It is already seen in Article 1 of this proposal that the Agreement was concluded on 18 September 2008, following the declaration of independence of the so-called ‘independence’. Kosovo and recognition of the phantom state by more than two-thirds of the EU. So, the fact is that based on the falsified report by Helen Ranta, they have excluded the territory of the likes of KIM and that two thirds of the European civilised world has trampled a set of international law standards, recognised a country that is based only on Shipar terrorism and special aspects of high-tech crime, organised crime, organ trafficking, narcotics and everything that represents the black funds of many of the most developed organizations. What is a fact, and in this inconceivable case, if we confirm and verify a convention that should effectively put into effect co-operation between the Serbian and European police, we almost had an example of a secret report by the Federal German Intelligence Service confirming that the Cypriot terrorist state, so-called. Kosovo's independent business activity is based solely on the criminal activity of the Shipar political summit. A secret report by the Federal German Intelligence Service established a link between all those freed from war crimes, trade in Serbian organs, to the highest peaks in Brussels. With that in mind, I would like the representatives of the Serbian government, which they are now, to me, the Minister of Sport and Mrs of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, so that they are not the right addresses to address this issue, but finally this is the relationship of the Serbian government to this Parliament, but the Serbian public should find the very answer to this question, so we should have fantastic, timely, real-time, qualified co-operation with the European police. The European police should first arrest, at least according to a secret BND report by senior Brussels officials, and then the Cypriot political summit. Mr. Thaci's name was also found in a secret GNI report as one of the people signing criminal activities on KIM territory. Given that Kosovo and Metohija do not have business activities, but is financed solely by crime, they have increased the crime rate for all Serbia and only within that, Europe sees us as a comprehensive country, so Serbia has increased its blacklist rating and has become a black spot when it comes to organised crime. We do not understand how the standard and co-operation between the European police and the Serbian police will look when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. We don't understand how co-operation between the European and Serbian police will look if we know about the fact that three thousand DNA samples, which would definitely help investigate the trade in Serbian organs, are missing in the UN tribunal's laboratories?- I'm sorry. Or what will this co-operation look like when we know that the Albanian state is harming further investigation?- I'm sorry. Or, what would it look like if we knew about these activities, in the first place, that the trafficking of organs of people who were abducted from the territory of KIM and driven into the period of NATO aggression, to Tropoje in northern Albania, and all intelligence services knew nothing about it and did nothing, how would co-operation between the European and Serbian police on the ground look like?- I'm sorry. Similar problems arise when an analysis of Article 2 of this Agreement, which defines strategic, or technical information, Article 6, which regulates the exchange of information, Article 7, which regulates requests for assistance, Article 13, which speaks of the liability of the parties, defines in Annex the forms of crime that are the subject of co-operation, which are trafficking in narcotics, human beings, therefore, all of what is characteristic of the so-called. Kosovo and in light of this bill, it is said that these are criminal acts that are the basis for co-operation under the agreement. However, this is already the problem of the mixed state priorities -- the policy of this government, which is trying in this agenda to hide what every citizen of our country knows, which is the fact that today the choice between Brussels or KIM is being raised for Serbia. What we have expressed as a doubt, and the Serbian government should respond, but it will not do so and today's session is a real example, the Serbian public sees it, is how it will manage to get close to the EU and preserve Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, when it comes to KIM, especially when we know that under US pressure two thirds of the EU member states have recognised independence so-called. The countries of Kosovo and Metohija, created exclusively on Shipar terrorism and on crime. Also, why don't you say it openly? Currently, the main terrorists in the Balkans, Haradinaj, Thaci and others are not engaged in their basic work, terrorism, which has won the final state, and in organ trafficking, but are playing some intellectuals and politicians, all for building the Kosovo state institutions on Serbian territory. What we had the opportunity to see, too, at the end of last year when the Rule of Law Mission – Eulex became operationally capable and when we expressed our disdain for another rampage of the American and British administration, when it comes to the Security Council, so Eulex is like a mission against law in KIM territory. In EULEX, among other things, their capacities, human resources participate in the US, participate, say, one Croatia. Eulex is a mission that is not foreseen by Resolution 1244 and has completely done everything behind it and which should be the responsibility of the Security Council directly. The court's decision almost freed a man who signed a terrorist act on KIM territory when more Serb civilians died. These are actually messages sent to the Serbian public, that the Cypriot terrorists are politicians, statesmen, joyfully seen guests in the American or British, conditionally speaking, to modern courts, and that Serbs are paying for it by obtaining years of imprisonment in front of The Hague tribunal, which is literally an instrument of force in the new order of the world. So, in this sense, the real state of affairs is tragically seen and the explanation of the legislator on the bill that does not mention at all whether the Serbian side considers that this law applies to our southern province, in essence, is believed to meet the necessary conditions in the EU accession process. When this is read, the question is inevitably raised which are European conditions in practice, or that this terrorist group from Kosovo, which loves this quasi-fitness, has met these European security conditions by selling, for example, human organs and kidnapping people. A while ago, the SRS told Serbian Justice Minister Ms Malovic – we came to the knowledge that the "little Guantanamo" was actually installed in Bondsteel. In that "little Guantanamo" in Bondsteel, which is what the Commissioners of the Council of Europe found, were Serbs. The international community also had, and the Serbian state, based on counterintelligence and intelligence from police and military, knowledge of organ trafficking, the abduction of people from the KIM territory. If someone, and is established, had this knowledge from the Serbian government, ladies and gentlemen, make sure that the SRS will do its best to make these people, when the time comes, feel guilty. What should also be said is that, of course, all of this shows the difference between practice and propaganda about so-called. To Brussels standards, this may indirectly mean that this agreement regulates territorial application only for Serbia and that is why it is so-called. The state of Kosovo allowed human trafficking and allowed people to disappear. If that's not the case, and if so, so-called. The Brussels standards match, then the legislator should answer the direct question, but unfortunately, the legislator is not there, so it will not answer the question – whether and whether the corrupt, biased, Brussels officials present at KIM will be subject to the same standards, i.e. the application of this agreement that regulates helping to detect the most serious crimes, what are trafficking in human beings and narcotics. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, trafficking in human beings, as well as trafficking in human organs, where it is known that a girl's liver between 15 and 17 years old on the black market costs five million euros, it is a very sophisticated job and that job must involve various institutions. So, it can't be done by a few people, and it's usually done under the auspices of many intelligence organizations. If a representative of the Serbian government were present here to whom I could address this question, I would ask a very clear and urgent question on behalf of the Serbian public and those who gave us the mandate to investigate this until the end, but unfortunately, the Serbian government did not consider it appropriate to be there. So it's no secret who from the West from EU countries has for years been sponsoring a terrorist so-called "terrorist". The Liberation Army of Kosovo and its leaders. Also, the SRS cited some time ago, at the end of 2008, taxed, and I don't want to repeat myself, it was recorded how much the US administration was giving millions in dollars to form an independent state of Kosovo. Confirmation of all this and a very clear and decadent position we had the opportunity to see and hear from the US and UK ambassadors at the last session of the Security Council on March 23rd, when they said - Kosovo's independence is a irreversible process, the KIM plot is applied in the territory of Martti Ahtisaari. So, all that were our concerns and doubts, expressed through attempts to distract the public and those responsible in power, that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was in fact an extortion of the recognition of KIM independence, that the next phase of the implementation of the Martti Ahtisaari plan, followed by the application of Ischinger's plan to divide Kosovo, the entry of the Serbian and Albanian sides into negotiations, and thus the job was completed. Perhaps the government will accept that fact, the SRS will never accept Kosovo's independence and Metohija as a fact! We see the solution in peaceful, political and diplomatic means. Talks, negotiations or any activity with the terrorist state, so-called An independent kim, from the perspective of the SRS will never happen! Let's get back to the agenda. What needs to be observed are the provisions of this Agreement on Cooperation, in particular its Articles 1, 2, 6, 7, 8 and 13 as well as the definitions of Annex. However, regardless of all these common known facts and distances between the peach and the Brussels ideology that is dominant in this country, there is nothing controversial about it, in the May elections "For Europe's Serbia" voted an exceptional percentage of people, expecting a better future. We can only respect that, but these are our reasons why we feel that Serbia really has no alternative. It explains the purpose of the Agreement and the improvement of relations with the EU, therefore, with the EU and Brussels, which openly, very plastically, helps those who are defined as terrorists, who have come to an independent state through terrorism. This absurd is difficult to understand, but even more difficult and serious commentary. The only possible explanation is that pro-Bristian ideology in our country has lost touch with real life, relationship in the world and the region. Maybe some of you think it's the only right path. Perhaps some of you may or may not be available to certain economic indicators, which I will later present to all of you, to the special Serbian public, which are talking about the trendy destruction, let's say, of the Serbian economy, and by giving primates to the choice of foreign contractors instead of the domestically, truly targeted over-indebted Serbia. That's the way to Europe! Perhaps some of you are not available, perhaps you do not have time to think in this way, perhaps a European dream means a better civilised Serbia, but for us, and yet some people voted for it in May 2008, there is another time that should rely on Serbia's own resources, to revive domestic production, to give at least hope to people that they will be able to do their work, independent of the political pressures from the great EU, to make a better life for their fellow citizens in Serbia. Let's get back to the subject. Under the proposed agreement, it can be concluded that it is essentially inapplicable in practice, because this power, unfortunately, has neither the courage nor the ability to apply it to, for example, terrorists in Pristina. When it comes to national symbols, coat of arms, anthem and flag, we have tried to ask the minister, who was there in front of the promoter, when we are talking about when "God of Justice" will play in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, when will the two-headed non-facilitated coat of arms stand in the Pristina parliament, when will the Serbian flag turn to the institutions of Kosovo and Metohija? This means law enforcement for us, which means that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Serbian state. Also, that means for us that a whole set of these laws, which is why we're all under so much pressure, satanized, means they're going to be implemented in practice or they're just going to be a dead letter on paper. Also, it is an extraordinary opportunity to maybe just think about asking a rhetorical question: what will the EU look like at the end of 2009 or 2010, now that we see the tendencies and efforts of strong European states, we hear statements, let's say, Angela Merkel, who does not think of helping economies that do not have German majority capital? What our projection can be, like the SRS, that follows all that is happening in Europe's territory in the context of the global financial crisis, is that it is a very likely scenario that countries will close to national economies, that all highly developed Western European democracies will first think about the domestic market and domestic labour force, that in the first place they will drive out those who came here with bread and bring them back to their countries of origin and that the EU will become and remain only a dream. So what do we do? Or will all of these laws, which we are considering in such an urgent process, and therefore suffer terrible Satanizations because, for God's sake, we are late, so will the laws mean a better life for the citizens of Serbia? Does that mean he's going to bring production back to life with us? Is that gonna mean that we're gonna get the agriculture to do finally what it's supposed to do in this country? Does this mean that people here will be able to support their families with their work? These are also issues that I intended very directly and clearly to put before the Serbian government, because these are the only answers the Serbian public expects. So, you took the responsibility to bring this dream back to life and that people slowly but certainly, not overnight, no one unrealistically expects that kind of magic formula, but that at least he sees that every day at least he lives better. That the Serbian government is not sitting here and that the Serbian government will not give that answer, that is to us and the Serbian public, I think the best possible answer. So, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the proposed Agreement, it can be concluded that he is, in essence, in practice inapplicable, not only because there is no courage, or possibility, and here in the first place, I mean material and technical possibilities and human resources, and above all, we think that those who have been behind all this that has affected Serbia for nine years, and somewhere in Brussels and Washington, we do not intend for Serbia to be a strong country in this region. If they had any intention, Kosovo and Metohija wouldn't be independent in their eyes. Also, the adoption of the Agreement will change nothing significantly to the so-called The Brussels path of our country because, as we have seen, after the last EU extraordinary summit, held in Brussels, which the Daily Telegraph since 3 March 2009 openly describes as a disaster, Eastern Europe is in big trouble, because Western European rich countries do not want to help our region. To help, as I said earlier, I cannot count even the countries that are members of the EU, such as Hungary, which is in debt, just to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, about 200 billion dollars, whose currency -- forint, according to the official course of the National Bank of Hungary, was changed in mid-August compared to 235 forints for one euro. A few weeks ago it was worth at least in history compared to the euro, and the relationship was 312 forints for one euro. Also, ladies and gentlemen, you've seen, I mentioned this earlier, that Mrs. Merkel doesn't want to help even a giant like Opel just because she's not in majority German ownership. That is why it is unrealistic to expect any serious assistance for Serbia. Similarly, there is a propaganda trick about visa-free travel, which allegedly depends on the adoption of all these conventions, protocols and agreements, because any kind of journey requires good wages and a solid standard, and above all a stable economy that provides it. Serbia has no stable economy. Serbia is slowly but surely moving towards debt slavery. None of this exists with us, and I can only expect worse indicators this year. Also, when Oli Rehn's statement of 4 March 2008 on visa relief for the Western Balkans is analysed, it is clear that there are no guarantees for Serbia, because he doesn't even mention us in that statement. He is indeterminately talking about the possibility, and recognising a particular dictionary of Western diplomats when it comes to possibilities, then the fact itself is very disputable, that some Western Balkan countries may get visa relief by the end of this year, this should also be added to the statement by Olli Rehn of 9 February last year, recommending that EU candidacy is not tolerated and things are fully clear on our country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, such a agenda can only be viewed in one way, however, as a transparent distraction of the public or a distraction from the main problems of this country, such as the economic crisis and the scandalous anti-crisis programme. In doing so, he is so scandalous that we cannot even imagine what the Serbian government's strategy is, in terms of resolving the financial crisis that has hit Serbia. Let me remind you, when the SRS and the Serbian opposition at some point even screamed from the microphone that Serbia was slowly but certainly entering the recession, that production activity and productivity growth would be in a negative trend, that Serbia would be hit by a crisis, for which no one could assume its overall dimensions, we got a dirty media campaign. In return, we've received a complete derrogation of our dignity, as well as the dignity of this home. In what way? It began to count, instead of going to meet the citizens and how all aspects of the crisis will be overcome, how much one MP costs. Let's go back to the following reasons. So, this anti-crisis program, and it's a political belief of the SRS, has the only goal of helping domestic tycoons. You had a chance to see them in Kopalnik, it was shown by Serbian media, foreign banks, mostly Austrian, who are using our citizens and are there to earn profits with really high interest. Of the developmental domestic banks, unfortunately, there's no sign. Secondly, the debate on economic suicide or the loss of 267m euros that brings a unilateral application of the Transition Agreement with the EU at the moment when every euro is important to us, I think that these days should write the real economy of destruction, because this example of unilateral application of the Agreement with one organisation, indeed, at the expense of the damage to the state, seems unremembered to me, but there are people who have been dealing with this for quite a long time, and I suppose it will deny me if this is not true, but Serbia is slowly, but certainly, in negative aspects, picking up a precedent for the precedent. Third, discussions on recession, recognised by the Institute of Market Research already 51% of the 200 leading domestic businessmen, discussions in the months-long waste of interest payments on a stand-by arrangement with the IMF, as well as discussions on a new arrangement with the IMF. Although even the Ukrainian government of Ms. Timoshenko finds that this is a disaster for the economy of each country and anyone who even claims to be a serious professional in his work, whether it is politics or economy, it also accepts that credit arrangements with the IMF have mostly brought bad days for those countries that have gone that way. The moment they tried to get back off that road, it was already too late. So these are the primary topics that we need to discuss in this congregation. There have been several attempts to do so with representatives of the Serbian government, however, none of these attempts have been done properly. Honestly, we don't know what that answer should be given to millions of people who have lost their jobs, those half a million people who live below the poverty line, pensioners whose pensions at nominal value are already so tight that they can't escort all those health needs that go along with those days. I don't know which answer should be given to mothers who should raise and decide on their children's better lives or decide to increase their family. Or, what the Serbian government should answer should give to all of us whose receipts are nominal in terms of price increases and the euro course still dropped significantly. So, ladies and gentlemen, what should also be one of the topics is a topic of crime that is best prevented by social prevention and by relying on its own forces. There is no evidence that in Western Europe he is at the lowest level, therefore, at a lower level than in some Balkan states. On the contrary, a report by the UN Bureau on Crime and Drugs called "Crime and its Impact in the Balkans" claims that in many Balkan countries the level of crime is lower than in most Western European states, especially when it comes to parts against people and property. Just to remind you, Antonio Mario Costa, executive director of the UN Anti-Crime and Drugs Bureau, the team said for the BBC site – in fact, in the report, that the crime level today is the same in the Balkans or in some cases even lower than in Western Europe. Of course, the level of crime in the Balkans would have been even lower if it hadn't been for the creation of so-called crime. EU countries in Kosovo. In the first place of the Washington administration, and then Brussels, because, according to the report, one of the biggest problems in the Balkan territory is the problem, it is the biggest black hole, Kosovo and Metohija. The EU immediately tried to hide this truth and denied the EU Bureau's claims. It is obvious that history does not fit in with a dogma called the European Union, which is encouraged by Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, when you vote on this agreement, which we are talking about today, Articles 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, and 17, on the provisions of the Annex and the definitions of the reasoning, bear in mind the following facts: the British Observer announced on 21 February 2007 that Germany had signed a meeting of EU Justice and Home Affairs Ministers in Dresden to adopt an agreement between Germany and seven other countries, signed in 2005. The agreement stipulates that in emergency situations, police officers, without any notice, will be able to move from one country to another. The definition of an "emergency situation" is slightly disputed, the risk of materialisation in case the police of the host state are waiting for them to operate. The police would have the right to take all the temporary measures necessary to prevent the immediate danger. As for the exchange of information provided for by the Agreement, Tony Banjan of the Civil Liberties Control Group "Staj Voca" considers Prum, this process speeds up and instead of having a suspect first, and only then looking for data, will they be able to immediately throw themselves in search of all over Europe. What is very important here and should be said, we are just adopting conventions that come from the part of developed, civilized, worlds that are in most of the very important strategic missions in the territories that have been declared the crisis areas of low but controlled intensity, whose soldiers, in the first place, I mean American soldiers, are not obliged, are even exempt from domestic legislation if they commit a criminal act, most often their soldiers respond, and should respond, to domestic courts. We mentioned these examples as a parliamentary group last year and it was seen that, for example, for a massacre in Fallujah, no American mercenaries who signed this massacre against civilians had even received moral notice, so it won't be now. It's a world that's tailored to democratic principles and principles, and so much for the freedoms that come from Washington and possibly Brussels cuisine. From that kitchen comes only one message to the Serbian people, so Ramush Haradinaj is released, and the Serbian people, the Serbian state, police and military summits are condemned for so many years of imprisonment. Now let's go back to the topic, which is 19 conventions, agreements and protocols. One of the very important segments for Serbian society is the bill to confirm the loan framework contract concluded between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. The SRS is against further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia. The total foreign debt is already exceeding $30 billion and the state debt is smaller cannot mean anything, as the state will be forced to take over, in an indirect or direct manner, private debt companies or there will be a total collapse of the economy. As for the concrete loan with the Bank of the Council of Europe of around 20m euros, its purpose is not disputed. This is the correcting effect of natural disasters and rinks. I do not understand why the state is further in debt if it could save, say, 267m euros if it gave up a pointless decision on unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU. So not only could it fund the entire 36m-euro project but it could raise, for example, the following projects and facilities: 1) If it were to give up the unilateral implementation of the Transition Agreement, the authorities could, for example, increase the budget appropriations provided for, say, for the anti-crisis programme -- that's about 84m, given by the state, and the rest are very uncertain bank loans. 2) If the authorities gave up the unilateral implementation of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU, the 580m-euro budget deficit would be nearly halved. If funds lost by applying the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU were directed towards economics, subsidies could be increased by almost eight times or if the funds were directed towards the Republic Health Insurance Office, it would have almost seven times more resources. The sum of 267m euros is also higher than the expenditure foreseen for agricultural subsidies of around 212m euros, but also from the sum of about 192m euros provided for by the National Employment Service. Let me remind you, according to the National Employment Service data by the end of last year, more than 700,000 people are officially out of work, and about 67,000 people are out of work officially, we have read that list of enterprises, too, by simply stopping their work base, mostly about 67,000 people without the possibility of feeding their family. Also, the sum of 267m euros is only 17% lower than the total budget allocation for childcare, for example. A comparison of the budget expenditures and losses produced by the decision to implement the Transition Agreement shows that the government could finance, for example, the work of the following institutions – the National Assembly, including MPs from the professional service to which it goes from 23m euros; the KIM Ministry of 47m euros; the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including diplomatic and consular representations headed by around 67m euros; the Ministry of Justice, including the Office for the Implementation of Institutional Sanctions and the Directorate for the Management of Disposal of Assets, belonging to around 74m euros. So, all these institutions cost Serbia around 211m euros in total, which is about 55m euros less than the loss generated by the unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU. However, regardless of all this data, all institutions are on a constant blow from the media, especially our institution, which we hope will someday be remembered by those who own it to do so, to protect the dignity of all of us. On the other hand, the disastrous decision to unilaterally apply the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU is rarely criticised in the media. Even more rarely, she's wanted to be abolished for saving. Similarly, it can be concluded when it comes to the economy ministry to which almost incredible 516m euros go. The Ministry of Local Self-Government announces the layoffs of eight thousand local civil servants over the next four years. Thus, 12m euros will be reportedly saved. However, the figure is more than 20 times smaller than the figure we lose unilaterally by applying the Transitional Trade Agreement with the EU. So what the SRS thinks is our political belief, that if all of this is in mind, and are precise economic indicators, the government must withdraw the decision to unilaterally apply the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU. The enormous financial resources that Serbia gives, you will acknowledge, to the rich EU, therefore, must be directed – towards our poorest citizens, employees, to improve health and childcare, to our farmers and to our agriculture. Not to turn out to be just criticizing here, respecting really concrete economic indicators and concrete data, this is also one of the solutions offered to overcome the financial crisis. So, the SRS believes the government must stop helping monopolies, such as the Delta Company. The company's owners are already rich enough and they don't need the state's help to increase their wealth. A unilateral application of the Transition Trade Agreement with the EU shows Brussels essentially is stealing Serbia. Brussels has taken 267m euros from our citizens. For this money, about 60 kindergartens or 50 living rooms could be built for children, with transportation provided, and new furniture could be obtained for 150, let's say, schools, building 50 physical halls, building 22 schools or rehabilitating 90 schools, and also building 15 new schools. Three new bridges in Belgrade could be built for the money we have been kidnapped by Brussels. I have indeed, somewhere, and I have rejoiced, and apparently my hopes have been, as well as expectations, very unrealistic, that these two orders for representatives of the Serbian government will be filled, so that we will have opportunities to exchange arguments and hear concrete solutions to overcoming the financial crisis, but here's the Serbian public can see that – what it looks like. With this agenda point, of course, on the agenda and this loan that we're considering today, it's very important that these jobs are done by our businesses, because experience with so-called. European loans are more than negative because of what some would say – the high standards that come from the Brussels administration. The SRS considers these to be blackmails, and that is our political confidence, and their financial institutions. I'll give you a few examples. So, when it comes to eliminating domestic enterprises, the example is in Article 115. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement promises assistance to Serbia, which includes loans from the European Investment Bank. It is not clear how high interest rate loans can be counted and read – as help? But there! Also, so-called. The assistance will be conditioned by the recipient's efforts to implement economic, democratic and institutional reforms. As these reforms look in practice, it shows, let's say, the next example. Austria's Por, which for at least 118m and 640m euros will build a bridge on the lower deck of Ade Gigania, because it simply had no competition among domestic builders, once famous in the world, because they did not participate in the tender. The reason is the very strict conditions of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which were known in advance to be insurmountable for domestic operation. The first condition of the IBRD was that the contractor had a 200m-euro turnover in the last five years. Others to have references, i.e. that he built at least three bridges of similar characteristics, like the one they've been competing for in the last ten years. It is understood that the company that gets the job will be technically trained. The only domestic company that meets this last condition is the Bridge Building, which owns a mechanism for building a bridge on the waterways, as is the case with the bridge at Ada Gigania. In recent years, however, she has not built capital bridges, for well-known reasons, because the state did not have economic strength in the first place, for such a thing. Angelko Kovacevic, otherwise vice president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, presented data that foreign firms have brought new conditions and that our companies, who are applying for a job, are asking for something significant to be built in the last three years. Therefore, all major projects, such as roads and bridges, have been allocated mostly to foreign companies, although there is no evidence in practice that they are more capable than our own. For example, the Energy Project earned about 200m euros in 2007. Our builders believe they have insufficient support from banks that should be supported by exporters. We go on with concrete examples, a similar situation happened in 2006 regarding the construction of a new bridge and reconstruction of an old bridge near Beška na Dunav. Representatives of Serbia's Construction Unions and the Republic of the Border Union "Independence" publicly expressed their dissatisfaction with the fact that the Serbian consortium, which made up "The Bridge", "Planum", "Gosa", MIN, "Ivan Milutinovic" and "The Welder", did not get a job building a new bridge at Beska, although independent commissions assessed the offer as the most favourable. The joint Serbian companies have managed to outrun all foreign firms by the quality of the offer. But the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank disqualified the domestic consortium because it allegedly does not meet the high criteria. In vain, domestic firms warned that loans from these banks would be returned to Serbian citizens. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, therefore, total work on the recovery and construction of bridges at Beška, otherwise worth 40m euros, even the reconstruction of the bridge at Beška did not want to trust Mostogradnja. Apparently, in 2005, this company had insufficient profits, so it was openly favoured by a long-placed Alpina, although the company's offer was two million more expensive. Let me remind you, that same bridge at Beška, in the '70s, was built by the local Bridge. The epilogue was that the agreement to resuscitate the existing and build a new bridge at Beska had been given to Alpina-Majreder and DSD. One of the subcontractors will be "The Bridge", and on the other hand, if we think about that other way, unlike the inability to meet standards and while we are at it, another of the plastic and very current examples is the functioning of the "Fiyata" in Serbia. What we know for sure is that Fiat cannot attach itself to any spare parts factory on Serbia's territory because, simply, no factory can compete with the standards of the Fiat, because technology is outdated. So what's being provided as a new possibility is actually an old possibility that stands there, but which also comes to Satanization because it comes from the East, it's about the Russian Federation. In the Russian Federation, a wide door for construction companies has been opened. This, of course, is not a political phrase or a flossula or our intoxication with the Russian Federation, but there are concrete examples. The company Ivan Milutinovic-PIM signed an agreement in July 2008 on the construction of a port in Primorsk, the Azov Sea in Russia, worth 360m euros. Belgrade's Advanced signed a 45m-dollar contract in August 2008. At the same time, he's building a $70m hotel in the Jaroslav area. While domestic construction firms are suffocating in Serbia, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development invests in the expansion of the Austrian Insurance Society, namely the group "Unika" in Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland. Partners intend to expand their business in Eastern and Southeast Europe. Co-operation lasts several years and coincides with the expansion of European values to Eastern Europe. When we look at, ladies and gentlemen, all these facts, it is no wonder that the US Undersecretary of Finance is also in charge of international issues, Tim Adams, said in 2006, that it is time to reconsider the work of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. He said the bank was formed as a temporary institution and that it should be reconsidered if it really achieved its purpose. This is a very important question. Otherwise, when it comes to the banking system in Serbia's territory, for one simple reason, what Serbia lacks, that is, the fact, we all know, is a developmental domestic bank. As another picture of the overall issue, Article 91, for example, calls on Serbia for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the EU says: "The Parties will co-operate to establish and develop an appropriate framework for the achievement of the banking, insurance and financial services sector in Serbia based on free competition and ensuring the necessary and equal conditions for all participants. ''However, according to data from the NBS governor, around 80% of banks in Serbia were still in majority ownership of EU capital in May 2007. According to the NBS report in the first quarter of 2008, the banking sector gained a profit of around 130m euros. The majority of foreign banks in Serbia made a gross profit of around 293m euros in 2007, up from 40% compared to 2006. At the end of March 2008, there were 2,486 business units of branches, counters, exhibits, agencies and exchange offices in the organisation system of all banks, which is 51% more than at the end of 2007. So, as the Serbian industry and agriculture fail, I would like to hear different arguments and reasons that would convince me otherwise, as well as a whole group of the SRS Parliament Club, the banking sector that is in foreign hands is developing. At the same time, it is, somehow, already within the process that we recognise as the process of merged courts, growing and external debt of Serbia. Financial consultant Nebojsa Katic compares Serbia's borrowings with those from the time of the SFRY that led to the failure of the second Yugoslavia's economic system. So, the ease of borrowing in recent years reminds us of 'Happy '70s', when Yugoslavia was happy to take foreign loans, when it was living well and when the awareness of living well was strengthened, too good. However, Mr Katic believes the current situation is worse than that of the former Yugoslavia, because there is not even a false feeling of a better life. The external debt is growing hopelessly, $28.4 billion at the end of March, what we have so far as data is that it has almost exceeded that $30 billion figure, there is no development of the construction industry with the help of domestic banks. For example, again, Mr Katic says that part of the loan that Yugoslavia received was directed, for example, only by the companies working, for the construction of infrastructure, therefore, dedicated and selective. The business was, of course, done by domestic companies. – In addition to building infrastructure and new jobs, experience was gained that was later sold to third-world countries, and this is a legacy that is still close to us and that we all recognize well. - Part of the foreign credit is channelled through the banking sector. A better and more efficient part of the economy has accelerated and has been able to offer domestic markets, sometimes by side, enough products, not top-notch but quite solid. - Banks credited exclusively for the purchase of domestic goods, and that helped make it more competitive, at least on the domestic market. In any case, poverty and despair were not a mass phenomenon like today. The Serbian Radical Party is afraid that these two phenomena will become more frequent residents in Serbia's daily life, and we still have no answer from the Serbian authorities what it specifically means to do in those 'five minutes after twelve'. The growing number of citizens has a regular and permanent job. The economic crisis has continued. The sense of life, it seems for a reason, is increasingly tragic, although the economic system absorbs huge amounts of foreign capital and is invested in fact and realistically very little. There is no more serious investment in infrastructure, except in pre-election promises. We can here for the sake of political correctness to say that no one could in May predict that a financial crisis would happen, that everything that was a corpus of pre-election promises was indeed the wish of many to implement it in action, but also, on the other hand, we did not see this serious, responsible move by the Serbian authorities that the moment when the financial crisis hit us we have a strategy and a plan to get out of it. We inform ourselves, or semi-inform ourselves from the media, by hearing that the Serbian government intends to overcome the financial crisis, i.e. to make up for the gaps in the budget, by further borrowing from the IMF. You will allow, ladies and gentlemen, then it is quite a common and normal reaction to say that we are afraid that the Argentine script can happen to Serbia. The logical question being raised is – who will succeed with a non-functioning economy, with a society that has so many problems to pay and to respect all obligations towards the IMF?- I'm sorry. On the other hand, it can be truly brutally called the idea of reducing the administration. It's not about numbers, it's about concrete people. How are these people going to carry out the burden of the financial crisis in the context of the survival of their families? One problem cannot be solved by creating a host of other problems. This financial crisis that has spread to Serbia, I will only remind you that certain ministers, who have taken responsibility to think on behalf of everyone in Serbia, have accused us of spreading panic just because in the middle of last year we suggested that something like this could happen, so instead of answering, we got serious media, dirty, war, it's our belief, by the serious, very powerful lobbyists of the EU and some tycoons. The Serbian public cannot know and cannot see what kind of framework this is, which is a strategy, which is the plan of the financial crisis resolution in Serbia, except for borrowing from the IMF. Banks are uncompromising, exclusively following their own profit interest. It's not against them, and in our case it's allowed, that interest is short-term. Investments and interest in Serbia are the most in Europe. Credits are mostly directed where the bank can make the most money, and that's the luxurial interest of the bank. It is the very nature of a foreign bank in Serbia's territory. So, it's mostly cash loans where credit returns can be secured in terms of mortgage loans, so I'd like to hear, say, how does the Serbian government think they solve the problem with all those people who, after a long period of sanctions, wars, wanted a normal life, and that's a perfectly normal biological, basic nature of man, wanted to have a man's life, so they went into loans, bought cars, bought some apartments -- they're out of work, and now what? Most of the time, these apartments entered as a mortgage for a certain loan, instead of the participation that was given at the outset. We have a serious social bomb in our perspective. These people not that they won't be able to pay off credit wars, they won't be able to have a roof over their heads. I would like one of the representatives of the Serbian government to answer this question to come to Parliament, make it a place of dignity, this is the only place where the government and the opposition meet, exchange arguments, trying in such serious times to find solutions for the endangered, therefore, the basic existential needs of citizens I am afraid, I am afraid that this will happen today and these days will not happen. On the list of priorities for financing production investments, it is the most risky at the bottom. Credit policy is rational from the corner of the banking sector, but it is devastating for an undeveloped society such as Serbia. All of these trends have deteriorated with the ownership structure of banks. Foreign banks are untouchable in a small country and can do as they please. It is natural that foreign bank owners do not feel responsible for the domestic economy. In the end, what would you do? They have an obligation to themselves, don't they? But it is dangerous for the financial system of small and undeveloped countries to be dominated by foreign property! Banking is a blood flow of the economic system, not a business like any other, and from a socialist extreme in which the banking system was completely subordinated to the interests of the economy, it went to another, even worse. There is no successful model of autonomous economic development, financed by foreign banks. Serbia will only regret helping to destroy the domestic banking sector. It's not a question of nostalgia, if someone had thought to respect the SRS, but economic fiction. I am fully aware that I have, very possibly, overloaded you with a bunch of concrete data, but I simply think that the picture is clear when you have specific data, when they are concrete economic indicators, and not just the political attitudes that can be respected as phraseology or complete political demagogy. What I would like to quote, in addition to many foreign names, is the name of the distinguished Mrs. Borka Vukic, who, you will agree, is a recognised name in the banking world. Mrs. Vucic has confirmed that she has a certain reputation in these streams. She's a woman who's done business with Rockefeller, and she's been very successful in dealing with these jobs. So when Mrs. Vukic gives a certain qualification, it certainly has a certain weight. Among other things, she says foreign banks work on the same principles as domestic banks, so we cannot treat them as foreign. However, unlike domestics, their interest is not to invest capital in the Serbian economy and its development, but solely to raise funds from citizens in order to make profits and transfer it to accounts in foreign countries. Also, Mrs. Vukic states that foreign banks are very pragmatic in our country's business. They met the legal limits in terms of founding roles and capital, rushed to extract their roles as soon as possible and to continue to use funds mobilised by our citizens and businesses, by re-placeing them, the truth, with high interest and other costs. In this way, foreign banks avoid any risk, as our people generally pay them a very high level of payment of approved loans. Let me remind you that interest in Serbia is among the highest interest rates in Europe. It is an important fact, according to the NBS, that in the banking sector a significant increase in profits is in business. Shouldn't be too smart to conclude that the profit goes to foreign banks' headquarters, but it is the basic motto of foreign banks' arrival in Serbia. If, I suppose, that amount alone could remain in our country, it would certainly reduce interest and other cost of borrowing the economy and the population. It is a devastating example of the exploitation of our economy and population, also the fact that a small town like Zrenjanin has 30 banks and 10 healthy companies. The already mentioned most famous Slovenian economist Dr. Jože Mecinger says double standards apply in this area. He says he is convinced that major mistakes were made when it was sold, for example, again an example from the region, "Ljubljanska Banka", which was quite unnecessary because in developed countries banks are usually domestically owned and only in Eastern European countries abroad. And that's enough response to the architecture of the world we're approaching. Given that, on the one hand, we are really bitter opponents of the neoliberal policy and the neoliberal occupation of the world, so we belong to those who can be classified as anti-globalists, so that you don't get me wrong, globalisation is not harmful in all its forms and all its visions, but when it comes to neoliberal occupation, it's totally devastating for what is called a man's life, and we have the opportunity to see, the Nobel laureate that the SRS often quotes, Joseph Stovec, can be said that one of the valuable phenomena of the anti-globalistic world, otherwise a member of Clinton's cabinet, a man who was one of the IMF vice presidents, knows how international financial institutions function, among other things, says Argentina points to the danger of these species, talking about the role of foreign banks in the 2001 Argentine collapse. And we can see, when it comes to borrowing and relocating from international financial institutions, for example from Croatian sources, as well as, on the basis of the writing of a foreign journal "Economist", that this is a realistic scenario that can be designed for countries that go out on the 'Dunavian Stream'. Among other things, says Mr. Privic that Argentina points to the danger of this species. There, before the collapse in 2001, domestic banking fell under the rule of foreign-owned banks. While these banks easily provided money to multinational companies, including large domestic companies, small and medium-sized companies complained of difficult access to capital. You'll admit this is a situation that's already been seen. The absence of economic growth, which contributed to the absence of funding, was a key factor in Argentina's collapse. I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, I guess I still have six minutes. Thank you. So, in any further borrowing of our country, it seems like a very significant role will be played by the 'good-will', international IMF. Speaking of which, I hope to say it in the next five-and-a-half minutes, as the IMF and the World Bank have influenced the states of debtors and the world economy, and I like to talk about concrete examples, the following examples show. Ser Jelami, by the way, writes – countries that have listened to the advice of the World Bank and the IMF have sacrificed their food agriculture. They are no longer able to rely on their own harvest. Then, professor Dr. Emilia Vukadin writes about the IMF, the World Bank, other supranational institutions, where the most developed countries of the centre, headed by the United States, have the greatest impact on the decisions of those institutions, whose realization directly affects the fate of the poor countries in the area of the periphery. Over the last decade, this has been seen in low raw materials prices, which are the main export product of undeveloped countries and in an increase in interest by four to six times on loans they must take from international financial institutions. Also, Mr. Dotic, who was among other things a member of major economic advisers and former chief economist of the World Bank, on the work of the IMF, regardless of what sometimes seems to be very ugly to write in such categories about the institution in which you worked, simply, man is turned to science, scientific achievements, to observe economic flows and to offer concrete solutions, says – decisions were made on the basis of something that seemed like a strange mix of ideology and bad economy, i.e. Dogma, which sometimes seemed to be barely concealing special interests. So only one recipe was strengthened, alternative solutions were not required. The problems facing developing countries are difficult and the IMF is often called to help in a situation where someone, like us, is ringing the alarm because it finds itself in a position to have a huge, for example, budget deficit, that it will not be able to wash out the huge public spending, and as a rule, a financial crisis like this now, unremembered since 1929, opens up, raises to the surface, all the shortcomings and all the shortcomings that the executive power was supposed to do, and it isn't. The IMF medications often failed, according to Nobel laureate Privic, most often were less successful than expected. The IMF policy in terms of structural adjustment, and you remember that since 2000, we have received several loans from international financial institutions for structural adjustments that were and should have brought about system reforms, we have not – therefore, policies designed to help the country adapt to crises, as well as to permanent imbalances, have led to hunger and riots in many countries. Well, when the results weren't so devastating, even when they were able to win temporarily and some growth, the benefits were often in full proportion to those well-being at the bottom of the zone, faced with an even higher poverty rate. However, what astounded Mr. Privic, as a man who worked within the system of international financial institutions, is, in fact, that these policies would be completely destroyed, which would bring poverty to countries that would borrow money from international financial institutions, never questioned, especially by many powerful people in the IMF, i.e. those who have made these critical decisions. They were often questioned by people from developing countries, but many of them were so intimidated by the loss of funding from the International Fund, that they did not have to make it clear that they were not to articulate concrete objections to the policies and behaviour of the IMF in relation to countries that had no other way than to raise, indeed, a large number of loans. I also want to stand in defense of domestic experts who, occasionally, try to warn in some places what might be one of the scenarios. I hope that the representatives of the Serbian government will convey where they should, because unfortunately, the Government knows by whom there is no way, that this is yet concrete data, that the MPs today have made an effort to bring to all of you concrete and argumentatively the dilemmas that await all of us and express great concern for the future of our people and our country in economic and social terms, and in the first place, to express complete doubt about the enforceability of conventions that are necessary across the state of Serbia, simply because there are no material-technical, human resources to implement this into action and which none of the existing conventions will be able to implement in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17099	Since on the lists of parliamentary groups more than we have been reported for the word, and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 93 want to do so. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint single search on the drafts of the law under points 15, 16 and 17 and points 28 to 43 of the agenda. We move to the 18th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Political Parties (principle search) You have received the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate, in principle, for the parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate is one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; the G17 Plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group of the SRS – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS - 18 minutes; the MEP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia Parliamentary Group – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina Group – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a National MP who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes, MP Vladan Batic. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file an application for a word with the order of MPs. I am informing the National Assembly that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them on this agenda point: MP Siniša Stamenković, PUBS MP; MP Aleksandra Jankovic, MP of the New Serbia Group; MP Zoran Shami, MP of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Marina Ragus, MP of the SRS; MP Vlatko Ratkovic, MP of the ZES Group and MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, MP of the LDP. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the word of Proposal Representative Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want? The information and notice that I've been given tells me that since 4:00 a.m., the minister in the National Assembly building has been in the building, so I'm asking him to enter the O.R. because the agenda point is open. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Does the president of the Justice and Administration Committee want the word, MP Bosko Ristic? No, I don't. ) Does the President of the Legislative Committee, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, want the word? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta, who, at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, issue an opinion on the bill, want to explain their own opinion? Unfortunately, both MPs were excluded from the National Assembly session because of disrespect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the decisions of the Administrative Committee. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The application was handed over by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17100	I would ask the question - why is there no Mr. Minister, because there is no point in having a debate without his presence and without the proponent's explanation why such a law is before the MPs. I thank you for your word. I'll wait for Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17101	Does MP Nebojsa Rangelovic want to continue? Mr. Minister has missed his turn and will wait to hear the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, unless the MPs explicitly want to hear first Minister Milan Markovic? They do. Does the Minister of State and Local Self-Government want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17102	I'm sorry, I came in 60 minutes ago, but I was here, obviously we didn't understand at what point to go in. I suppose such mistakes will not be repeated as we come to this precious home. Dear Presidency, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I have the pleasure of explaining today the draft law on political parties, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you'll excuse me, I'll read this opening statement, and after that, I'm ready to answer all the questions that are being asked. The reasons for the adoption of a new law on political parties lie in the colourfulness and mutual inconsistency of the legal framework that today governs in the Republic of Serbia the achievement of guaranteed freedom of political association. Contrary to modern constitutional norms, which, in accordance with the highest international standards, are guaranteed the freedom of political association and recognises the role of political parties in the political formation of the political will of citizens, this area is still governed by two in many far-reaching laws: the 1990 Law on Political Organisations, adopted as a republican regulation, and the Law on the Association of Citizens in Associations, Social Organisations and Political Organizations brought to the former federal level. The fact that the applicable laws were passed almost 20 years ago clearly points to their inconsistency not only with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also with most of the other regulations whose provisions are related to the content of these laws, notably the Constitutional Court Act, in a work related to the ban on the political party's work. In addition, the practice has shown that the laws contain a number of inadequate and incomplete solutions, and because of the changed social circumstances in the period since their adoption and a series of legal gaps, because they do not regulate many issues equally significant for the performance of the business of keeping a register and for the exercise of the rights of the entities to which they apply. The result of such a legal framework is that the same registration authority keeps two official records of political organisations: the Register of Political Organisations and the Register of Associations, social organisations and political organisations. An extremely simple procedure for the registration of a political organisation, the lack of mechanisms to determine whether all registered political organisations act, i.e. in fact there are, as well as many other issues related to their work, have resulted in the fact that a total of 636 political organisations have been registered in registers today, with 60 political organisations being deleted at the request of authorised persons, so that we are currently actively running in the register of 576 political organisations. In addition to these, we can cite a number of other no less serious reasons to finally, after nearly two decades of the introduction of a multi-party system, adopt a new law on political parties and this area is regulated on modern grounds, in line with the requirements of the ratified International Pact on Civil and Political Rights and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as other binding acts of the Council of Europe, with explicit regulation of restrictions on the functioning of the political party, promotion of transparency in work and the security of mechanisms for reliability and accuracy of the register, thus achieving the essence of political pluralism and freedom of association. The relevant laws governing these areas are among the oldest, as the largest number of countries in our environment, as well as other European countries, have passed their rules on political organisation and association since 2000. It was therefore possible to look at comparative legal solutions and experience from other countries' practices, which certainly contributed to better quality solutions in the draft law on political parties. Also, as the starting basis for preparing the text, a draft law on political parties was adopted in 2003, as well as criticisms of the proposal that were heard in public. The bill passed a comprehensive public debate involving, among other things, representatives of more than 20 political organisations and mainly all political parties that have representatives in this parliament. For the first time on a single basis, the law fully, clearly and precisely regulates the conditions for the establishment of a political party, its legal position, the keeping of a register, the termination of a political party and all other issues relevant to its work. First of all, the law regulates the procedure for registering political parties, which will be registered in the ministry responsible for the affairs of the administration. As the most significant newspaper in this part, it is proposed that a political party, instead of 100 full-time citizens so far, can establish at least 5,000 full-time business citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When proposing the number of founders needed to establish a political party, they took into account the comparative legal solutions of Austria, Norway, Finland, Spain, and proposed what we consider to be the necessary results and serious political scene in the Republic of Serbia. As an exception to this rule, in the context of the country's positive measures towards members of national minorities, a significantly smaller number of founders of the political party of the national minority, whose concept is also first regulated by this law, which is 500 full-time and commercially qualified citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the proposed solution will allow the implementation of good practice for the participation of national minorities in political life, adopted by the Code of Good Practice for Political Parties, Resolution of Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe No 1546 of 17 April 2007. It is also a regulation that a political party is founded on the founding assembly, by adopting a founding act, programme, statutes, by electing a person authorised to represent a political party, and that the constituent part of the founding act is made, in a legally prescribed manner, by a certified statement by the founder of a political party. This ensures the authenticity of the statements made, removes the possibility of various abuses, and, above all, the violation of the Constitution of guaranteed rights to the protection of personal data, freedom of opinion and expression and freedom of association. Furthermore, relevant evidence shall be provided to the competent authority on the basis of which it determines that the professional conditions for the entry of the political party in the register have been met, which has been a significant problem in practice so far. The proposed solutions, which regulate registration in the register, allow the political party to be entered in the register in a quick and efficient manner. In this part, for the first time, a new Institute for Renewal of Registration is introduced in the register, which aims to activate the entities to which the law applies with regard to the achievement of certain social policy objectives and as a key link between citizens and democratic authorities to maintain citizens' trust in the political system in general, while at the same time ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the register. This suggests that the political party is obliged to submit an application for renewal at the end of each eighth year from the date of entry into the register, with which it submits statements by members of the political party on membership in the political party, which contain at least a copy of the signature required for the establishment of a political party registered in the register. As an incentive measure of political parties in public life, the law proposes one of the exceptions to this obligation, so that the political party does not apply for the renewal of registrations in the register, if, within the prescribed deadline, the candidates proposed by it alone or in a coalition of political parties have received at least one mandate in the elections for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The conditions for termination of the political party are explicitly and precisely defined by law and there is no room for discretionary assessment of their performance. The law for the first time, in addition to the general conditions, and these are when the body established by the statutes adopts a decision on termination, when the political party merges with the other or other political parties and when the Constitutional Court prohibits the work, it stipulates that the political party ceases to exist and deletes itself from the register if it fails to apply for the renewal of the political party's registration in the register, and the competent authority determines that the candidates proposed by it alone or in a coalition of political parties within the legal period have not received any mandate in the prescribed representative bodies. Pursuant to the legitimate law of the State referred to in Article 11(2). European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 22(2) The International Civil Rights Pact, as well as binding acts on restrictions on political association in the Member States of the Council of Europe, provides for conditions and competent authorities to prohibit the political party's work. It is proposed that the Constitutional Court decide on a ban on political party's work only by the Constitution and the Law on political parties in established cases. Given the importance of these newspapers, we have provided for a transitional period of six months in which political organisations were left to comply with their statutes and other general acts with the provisions of this law and to apply for registration in the register. Political parties that are in the so-called The re-registration procedure shall not be lost in this way to the status of the legal person and shall be deleted from the register. As can be seen, the Law on Political Parties, whose adoption we propose, provides for full freedom of political association in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, but at the same time removing existing legal gaps and discrepancies create assumptions for the responsible conduct of political parties and the possibility of competent state authorities in this area exercising their powers. Therefore, it is right to expect that the adoption and application of this law will improve the position of political parties and activate them in terms of achieving their objectives, a prerequisite for citizens' confidence in the political system in general, and thus, in the end, provide general interest, since political parties, through the democratic formation of the political will of citizens and by participating in elections, are later entitled to participate in government, i.e. to create a policy of state and local communities. Dear People's MPs, this bill is basic, fundamental, which should set up in the future a different political framework in which political parties will exist and in which they will act. If this bill is passed and if the first effects of this law are as expected, we will be able to access very quickly the amendments to the electoral laws that will allow political parties special status in the election processes, which will save considerable energy and, above all, taxpayers' money in each run, whether it be presidential, republican or local elections. On the other hand, if this law achieves the effects we expect from it, it will be much easier for the new law on the financing of political parties to establish effective control of the work and material business of political parties, given that the law will apply to at least a tenfold fewer entities than it is in this case. I certainly think that by adopting this law in the field of political organisation, we are establishing a modern and modern, first of all, one system that is fully suited to the circumstances in which Serbia is today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17103	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is held by MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, an authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17104	I listened carefully to Mr. Minister, I listened carefully to the reasons for this law, they are reasonable, logical and should be respected and accepted. I've singled out two, replace the overriding laws, that's fine, of course, another, and that's due to the logical adoption of such a law, correct data in a register that doesn't correspond to the real state, because as Mr. Minister said, over six hundred parties and political organisations are currently registered. How was the government going to achieve these goals? I'd say by one bad law. Of course, it is not the first time that bad and inapplicable laws are voted and adopted in this congregation. Remember the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws that we have passed, and we cannot apply them, not because we cannot, but because such a situation is in our legislation. Another bad law could cause confusion in the already complicated political situation in Serbia. If I may, I would now set out to measure, or ask some questions about some members who are an integral part of this bill. This law regulates the establishment and legal position of political parties, enrolment and removal from the register, termination of political parties and other issues relevant to the work of political parties, said Article 1 of this law. So Article 1 tells us that this is one of the system laws, one of the most important for the functioning of the political system of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'd stick to article four and ask for some explanations. Paragraph 2 states: "The political party's action cannot be directed at the violent destruction of the constitutional order," legitimately, okay, it would not be possible to stand differently, "and to violate the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, to violate guaranteed human and minority rights" etc. In the light of the law, I did not find exactly what "infringing the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia" meant. '"Serious question without a serious proposalor question. The position of the 3rd member states: ''The political party cannot directly exercise power, nor subjugate it to itself. ''I would ask the promoters to look at Article 102. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which gives the parties exactly this right, not to mention that this member is contrary to Article 5. The constitution, because the Constitution itself, and I have repeatedly pointed out that in this congregation, its norms are in contrast with themselves. What does that mean? "The political party cannot directly exercise power, nor subsidize it to itself," when there is constitutional possibility that mandates can be entrusted to political parties, or that MPs are not the owners of their mandates? Next, I'd stick to Article 8. How are political parties founded? – The political party must make known through the press its existence, its arrangement and its representation, management. That goes for every change and supplement. A liberal provision that freer and freer can't be. Unfortunately, I read article 37. Law on public choirs and associations from 1891. Did it take 120 years for us to learn freedom, liberalism and democracy, or is it necessary for Article 8 to defile civil law in the Republic of Serbia? I would mention, such a liberal approach did not lead to chaos in Serbia's political life, because then in 1891, anyone could, whenever they wanted to, and how they wanted to start a political party, and there were only three of them in Serbia. Obviously something else is missing in our society, something else is missing, not a good regulation that will limit the possibility of creating a huge number of political parties. Now I'd stick to my ankle. 13th and 14th. It's a bill of law. Article 13 states: "The political party programme contains a description of the political principles, objectives and values the political party advocates. ''The statute of the political party, Article 14, provides for programmes and objectives, i.e. programme objectives. If a party is defined as having its statutes, which is legally possible, sublime and programming principles, at the same time be the statute and programme – will the ministry refuse to register such a party, or will such a party not be able to be registered? In this bill, it doesn't stand. Article 16 – The availability of data, programmes, statutes and other general acts of the political party says: "The political party is obliged to make it publicly available via the Internet a founding act, the personal names of the founders" etc. etc. What if in southern Serbia, I know for a fact that there are no Internet providers in some places, there is no Internet access, or 5,000 citizens are determined to start a political party?- I'm sorry. Will their inability to use modern technical means be a reason why such a party cannot be registered? As far as I know and as much as my legal knowledge serves – the public data is meant to be sufficient for a document where a party, organisation, association or anyone is registered to be made available to the public. Who cares? Let him go and watch the register. The question is, why does Article 16 violate civil rights in this way? Article 17, I will not only quote the last position, where it is said: "The Organisational Units Registration is run by the ministry by the territorial principle of political parties, in a way that is closer to the secretary's office. '"Why is the state so involved in this matter? The name and short names of political parties, i.e. "The name of the political party", stands in the position of the 1st member, "must be in Serbian and Cyrillic. '"I am sorry that, because of what is in the Constitution, this member had to be like this, because the Constitution is false, bad, hard to apply. Unfortunately, only representatives of the Liberal Democratic Party spoke about it. Everyone else stood up for such a bad constitution, and now they have problems with it. Because they are constitutional solutions, so is Article 18. Let's remind ourselves how the "Vidovdan Constitution" was brought. He would not have been voted if it had not been for the votes of ''Jemit', which mainly consisted of Albanian fugitives -- that Pasic was so cruel and that Jemit, because it cannot be translated into Serbian and cannot be written with Cyrillic, was not registered as a political party, there would be no 'Vidovdan Constitution'. 'Unfortunately, in today's country of Serbia, the situation is quite different. Article 21 says: ''The political party keeps records of its members, which must contain: the personal name and name of one of the parents, residence and address and the unique home number of citizens... '"Why this provision? In fact, only the unique number of citizens is sufficient to identify. Is that necessary too? What if the party has significant members, which they don't want to know are members of that party? The other thing is with those whose law and other normative acts are forbidden to be members of political parties, but this should not concern the normativeity contained in this law. Also, Article 26 concerns the establishment of a political party. There is a reference to administrative procedure, therefore, to the way to reach its rights, if the minister, or the competent authority, does not enrol in the register. I wouldn't go back to the law of 1891, quoting it a moment ago, I was quite clear enough. In the end, I'd stick to the last few members. First – regulatory, i.e. part of the matter concerning the ban on the work of political parties, Article 37. ''O banning the political party's work is decided by the Constitutional Court. ''In paragraph 2, he says, ''The work of a political party whose operation is contrary to Article 4(2) of this Law or which is to be joined... '" etc. If the Constitutional Court is in charge of this, why is the legislator, or in the next step the legislator, interfering with the judicial authority? Let the Constitutional Court do according to its rules and to the similar conviction of the Constitutional Court judges. What I have stated about Article 37 also refers to Article 38 -- which also concerns the ban on political parties. And finally – The authority to exercise supervision says: ''The supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by the ministry responsible for the affairs of the administration. Inspection is carried out by the Ministry through the inspection department. '"I would ask Mr. Minister to explain to us what is meant under surveillance, how will he be done? In an explanation, on page 20 of this material we have received, there is no detailed explanation of how monitoring will be done and what are all the attributes of the supervision that I have mentioned so far, or how the work of political parties will be monitored. I've used 12 minutes, I'll ask you to let me use the rest of my time when I finish my word. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17105	The electronic system has registered the application of MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the Progressive Group, Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wish the minister had prepared all the laws concerning the organisation of the political party, the financing. I can see that he wants to change election principles, systems by which the councils are elected, perhaps MPs. This isn't some law from which the others come. We could have discussed all the laws at once. It is true that the organisation of political parties at the time when we entered the multi-party system was one law in Serbia, in the SRJ then another, so there were parties that were registered only at the federal level. Some in both federal and republican, some only in the Republic. It's not so much anachron that we've been registered under. There were some problems that partly this law removes, but, of course, by introducing new technology, new understandings began to create new dilemmas. In fact, the party to the national minority is, in some order, by members, not important, a political party whose basic political action is aimed at achieving the right of a national minority. What does "basic political action" mean, and if there is a basic, what is the upgrade to political action? Isn't it the basis of political action that a man chooses to be a council seat, to participate in power, to create, to help, to get away, to fight. It bothers me a little bit, we will have a party whose basic function will be that the people from whom the party came live better, and I think it is the purpose of all of us to live better in Serbia, even if there is a Serbian people's party to fight to make all citizens of Serbia live better, if there is a Hungarian people's party fighting to make all citizens live better. I think that there is a positive discrimination, which is that they need fewer signatures, fewer votes, should have been carried out in some other way, and not so, to define them that they have to fight to make their people live better. So, in order for them to appear to you as a party of national minorities, they have to prove that they want their people to live better. That really doesn't make sense! You've introduced a political party representative. I happen to be one of five hundred and some party president, six hundred. Don't call me a political party representative, it doesn't make sense! Because this representation, if you transferred it from legal terminology, could be entrusted to anyone, and to represent a political party, to decide on its behalf, to make decisions, to sign, you have to be elected. You say so here – appointed. I have not yet heard that there is a political party that appoints its president. Perhaps yours, on a proposal from the international community, would be acceptable – it is called Boris Tadic for the president of the DS, on a proposal from the international community, which we all seek so much. Then, here you have predicted a person who contacts the state authorities, I think in the context of this financial business – a person authorized to contact the competent authority. ''We can't do it with the statute, Mr. Minister, 'because it's a passing term 'face authorized to contact' or 'president of the municipal board' or someone who runs accounting. What if that face leaves the party and we statute it to contact the competent authorities? Now we're gonna change the statutes because you asked us to name a contact person? Come on, function! And then we get to these six hundred and some registered parties. I think it should have been a little more free to predict rigorous conditions for the establishment of a political party. That's what we've been reacting to, and I see that other parliamentary groups have also referred to 10,000 certified signatures. And that's small, but not to turn out to be the big ones that are now big, they want to destroy the little ones that are small right now. Let those 10,000 signatures be basic. If it's too much, we'll have cacophony or what to call it, we can change that law, but I would suggest that the national minority parties with 1,000 signatures are registered, not five hundred, because it's really five hundred signatures. You can collect that in one great duchess village. You're talking about funding political parties. I remind you that there is a certain conflict in Article 4. The law on the financing of political parties, in which paragraph 1, when it comes to the distribution of funds, speaks of political parties that have won parliamentary or parliamentary mandates, and in paragraph 3, it talks about the distribution of funds to political parties that have parliamentary or parliamentary mandates, so if you are already hinting at the Law on the financing of political parties, that I am already helping you in advance, to solve the dilemma already once, the Constitution has resolved, it must also be resolved through the accompanying laws. So here we are talking about MPs, the committees and the parties in which they are. - It is the parliamentary party that has MPs, not the one who won the parliamentary mandates. It would be pointless for the Constitutional Court to ban a political party and the state is funding it after winning parliamentary mandates. Registration of political parties. You probably had good intentions when you were talking about a six-month transitional period in which existing political parties could reregister or new ones to register, but you didn't predict that someone could steal a name. Namely, if DS were to be late, the re-registration deadline starts and someone who is fully ready, efficient, in five days, submits a request to register as DS – where did you stop him from getting that name? What member of this law? We helped you there a little bit and we wrote that the existing registered political parties that have their own registration, in one of the two registers that exist so far, have six months to register and that during that time their name cannot be used by anyone in the registration. That's totally right. We still have to talk about whether an eight-year-old political party with parliamentary mandates or who has won parliamentary mandates should or should not register again? In our opinion, it takes a lot more respect for the Constitution than you've shown for this bill. You need to show understanding of what we wanted with this new constitution, understanding that the MP and the councilman have their mandate completely, that they can trust him in accordance with the law, which you have not yet passed, and that they can not trust him, that they can, with that mandate, after verification, go into whatever political party they want. That is how we accepted European values. This then means that the party in which they are located after eight years does not have to be reregistered, not a party that has won seats five months before that, one year, three years, but a party where MPs are currently present. So we value life, not value paper or what happens sometimes. Basically, the law regulates this business we do, but I don't dare say it wasn't regulated, it's been regulated so far. After all, we all must appreciate all our political struggles, everything we've done in politics. It would seem that you went even wider, but I expect other laws, to see how the media represents parties that have mandates and which they do not have, whether there should be room for all or if winning the mandate is still some higher platform from which political parties are far more accessible and media coverage. Since money is only available to political parties that prove themselves in the elections, let's also make it a media presentation, let's actually be valued political parties. Let's show those who are in vain looking for others, if once, for the third time in the election, they fail, by law, to direct them to the fact that there are others, perhaps, for them more acceptable and serious jobs than those we do here. Well, if it happens to us that we can't win the mandates, we should be referred to other jobs, just like the minister, just like the Prime Minister. In principle, I think you'll consider these remarks, they're well-intentioned. I don't want us to exclude ourselves from deciding on political life, about regulating political life just because we're an opposition. So we will have a clear position and we will vote either for this law or against it, depending on how you interpreted our objections, and the interpretation of our remarks is either acceptance or rejection of our amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17107	The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17108	I asked for a word, because we had representatives of two parliamentary groups, so it's time to offer answers to what we heard. The Serbian Progressive Party's amendment, submitted by Mr Arsic, seems to me, is a good amendment. It is not quite true that it was unclear that the parties with the same name could not be entered, because the legal personality was lost only after six months, so that no one could come and enroll the Democratic Party within six months. That six-month deadline is guaranteed to everyone. But that amendment is good, first of all, because it explains the situation that after those six months these names are free and that's why the amendment is good. I can only thank you for that amendment and tell you that it will be accepted. It is a fundamental and key amendment of the Serbian Progressive Party, so I expect that, after these few oral explanations of amendments, the law will have your support, given that this key amendment has been accepted and I thank you for having submitted it. The availability of mandates, you're right, is a major political issue, but it's a topic for election laws and we'll talk about it very soon, I hope. You have to understand that we as the Ministry are not in charge of the law on financing political positions, but the fact that this law will be the basis for further work on other laws. And what I can promise and invite you all here to get involved in a public debate over the first electoral law, which essentially changes our electoral system, it's a law on election committees. It changes the system in which Mr Nikolic spoke. The law is on the site. The public debate has begun. The round table will be April 29th, and I urge everyone to join in. It's a very important law. It will essentially change our current experience of politics in local self-government. Citizens will vote, not only vote, but will directly choose who will be their representatives in local parliaments. I think it's a good model that we should talk about later, when it comes to selecting MPs. As regards the definition of a national minority party, this definition has been taken over from the current Law on selecting Members of the People. Of course, she didn't belong in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, but that's a definition that we as a state absolutely had no problems with. The advantage is that only the Ministry will now be able to issue that kind of conviction, and until now the Republic Election Commission has done so. But more importantly, it seems to me that Mr Nikolic did not read the law, but specifically did not paraphrasise well, so I would not like to see any confusion: 'The political party of the national minority within the meaning of this law is a political party whose main action is aimed at representing and representing the interests of a national minority and protecting and improving the rights of members of that national minority in accordance with international standards, governed by the founding act, the programme and the statutes of the party. ''With regard to her colleague Zlata Djeric, we have submitted a good amendment, and we have accepted it, which adds 'our Constitution', which is not mentioned in our mistake. As for the 'face', it's not about the name 'faces that contact', it's about the president of the executive board, the secretary of the party, and it's about the function of who the state authority is communicating with. That's why it found its place in the statute. It's not about Peter Petrovic or anything, but it's good to mention. A political party representative, there are always persons empowered to represent and represent the political party. This person is a representative of the political party, in the sense of all our positive regulations governing the relationship between the party and the state, above all, the Law on Administrative Procedure, and we have written – chosen, or appointed, because we do not know how this person will be determined at which stop. It's going to be appointed somewhere, somewhere chosen, so we put both of them together. It's not a good interpretation of Mr. Nikolic. As for Mr. Rangelovic's remarks, I disagree with you, really. Freedom of association is one thing, freedom of political organisation is another. We have prepared the law, as you know, on the association that has put citizens' association on the most liberal basis, observing the parallel law and parallel practice. So three natural or legal persons can establish an association of citizens and, in this sense, Serbia will be absolutely in the highest European standard of achieving the freedom of association of citizens after the adoption of the law. It's one thing to associate citizens. It's kind of a private relationship. It's like joining the three of us to achieve some goals that we think are important. But one is a political organization. It's not a political party that's what a butterfly lover's association is. The political party pleads to run the country. The political party pleads to decide people's fates. It's the politicians who enter our homes. We are the ones who enter our countrymen's homes through TV, our decisions, our statements, create life. It can't be that kind of a political organization. It must be subject to strict criteria so that it can be established, in order to gain that legitimacy that you decide tomorrow on the rights of citizens or at all to plead, to run a country, society, people, etc. That is why strict conditions are for the establishment of a political party. That's why I disagree with you. So, for association – total freedom. They can't even register an association. Whatever they want. You can build an association of citizens and not sign up to the competent national authority at all. It's the new draft association law. So, freedom -- there's no bigger. But when it comes to the political party, three people cannot be gathered, especially if we want to improve our electoral process, so let's say tomorrow - all registered political parties have a direct pass in the elections. Why collect ten thousand signatures? Why harass citizens, their infrastructure, why verify these signatures, why block courts, when the election process of the Court of Justice cannot work? By the time we all bring in the credentials, or by now by the time we go to verify ourselves, it's a circus! If we give that kind of freedom, I'm sorry, we'll have hundreds of presidential candidacys tomorrow. We're going to have an election with 150 presidential candidates or we're going to keep the census high to run, which I think is a much worse variant. We have a different attitude. You think you need to achieve total freedom, and I think that when it comes to political organisation you should put very sharp criteria. Next, you won't hide if you're the founder of a political party, no one can hide! That ambition to manage other people's lives must cost us. - If I have the ambition to run the state and thus de facto people living in that country then let my name as the founder of the party be on the Internet, that every citizen can see it! That, in my opinion, is an important difference between freedom of association and political organisation. [[Applause]] As far as heights are concerned, whether it's five thousand or ten thousand, I want to say that in a practical way, most parliamentary groups decide to be. For example, ten thousand is in Romania. It's no big deal. In Slovenia there are 300, but unfortunately, we cannot compare with Slovenia, we are a unique example, only with 576 active ones. As for re-registration after eight years, the status of a political party cannot be acquired once and then the benefits that will come out of some other laws and be once and for all. It must be proven every eight years that we deserve that privilege given to political parties. It must be seen for eight years whether you really exist, whether the citizens are behind you, by entering Parliament on your own or in the coalition. You must show your potential in the election process, not by transferring MPs from one parliamentary group to another. In the election process, show that you have citizens behind you to be released from some other obligations, which will take place when you are registered as a political party. The whole system, in my deep conviction, is designed to last. With the establishment of this system, we have once for a long time put ad act on the status issues of political parties, and then we can calmly regulate some other issues. I have to tell you, there are some things that are not normal to me, while we're at it. It is not normal for an individual to enter parliament on behalf of a political party, on its list, not as a coalition, and then every year, every month from taxpayers as a political party, and we all know that it is not a political party, to receive 973,000 dinars, plus a parliamentary salary, if it takes it, if it does not take it, it does not matter. For the phantom clients 973,000 dinars! I don't think that's correct. Political parties finance taxpayers and that's fine. But those who are not political parties, let them do business, let them teach in colleges, let them do what they want otherwise, and let them risk their own money, but it's a little insecure that de facto of taxpayers' money is declared a political party when it's not real. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17109	The word has a folk MP Aleksandra Jankovic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, followed by MP Branko Ruzic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group. Please report again. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17110	Today we heard, and before we heard, from the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, that the adoption of this law on political parties will stabilise Serbia's political scene and make political parties more serious, which are more than six hundred in the register. The minister explained that the registration of a political party, according to the bill, would require the addition of 5,000 certified signatures by full-year and business-qualified Serbian citizens who will be founders and whose names will be publicly available on party internet presentations. We from New Serbia, as well as representatives of other opposition parties, have submitted an amendment to increase the number of signatures to 10,000, and for national minorities to thousands. But what's interesting here is what it really means – Founders whose names will be publicly available on party internet presentations, sounds like a kind of threat, and in addition, what does it mean if, for example, of these six hundred parties, as long as they are in the register, only three hundred remain and your proposal is accepted, that it takes five thousand signatures, it comes about one million and a half citizens on some lists, citizens marked as founders of a particular political party. A little bit of Stalinist sound, it has to be acknowledged, because we still have a question – how many NGOs are there and are their founders on official websites and internet presentations? What is a fact, is that Mr. Markovic, as a good intention, stated that when we reach an optimal number of political parties, we will practically deprive both citizens and the state of unnecessary costs during the election process. But for us, it's a question of what an optimal number is. Is the optimal number made by the American model, so now we have some kind of fancy position and fancy opposition or is that some other number? You have also specified that founders and all party documents will be public and that everyone who wants to deal with politics will have to bear a significant burden and be aware that they are constantly in front of the public. Again, it sounds like a threat. What could be the good side of New Serbia's new bill? First of all, it is obvious that it is a good intention, that a large political scene, to carry out easier control of the financial business of parties, to eliminate those parties that are still just a dead letter on paper and to deprive citizens of unnecessary costs, both citizens and states during the election process. What's wrong with us? For the stabilisation of the political scene, which is the intention of this law, however, it is necessary to change the electoral system that is announced, but a different global atmosphere. The main policy element in Serbia, as an extremely important social action, is its internal dynamics, caused by constant changes in circumstances and the reshaping of the most influential political actors. After the parliamentary elections, our political scene has changed greatly, and coalitions that were unimaginable by yesterday have emerged. It is clear that Serbia has not yet been able to consolidate its democratic system. A new cross-over of political parties has opened up the space for political life to finally be introduced into institutional frameworks. However, this tumultuous change has conditioned the absence of respect and representation of elementary democratic principles in our social life. In political history, it often happens that certain political figures, movements and parties remain trapped in rhetoric, way of thinking, ideological postulates at one time. Now these thunderous ideas often sound empty, don't move and don't inspire people. Time has run over them, and political actors have not been able to even see it in their ideological blindness. They continue to insist on some ideological mantras because they are not ready to feel either the spirit of their people or the time. Thus, practical examples of political farce appear as an expression of the inability to recognize the spirit of a new time, which is also sought by different answers. This certainly is not just about the need for political pragmatism, but about the necessity to change political life without leaving the basic political principles of democracy. It is the need to stabilise political opportunities and profile the main actors of our political scene. However, the fact is that there is some kind of blind political stain, which, as in the black hole, involves political parties and organisations, is unaware that times have changed and that it is necessary to change the very way of political response, but also the essence of action. I do have the impression, not only me, but most of the citizens who speak to us, that Serbia is in a difficult situation today, but under a Turkish occupation or an "uptake", as David Strbac would say. Serbia was enslaved under the Turks, but the people were very unique in resistance, and the leaders in both the First and the Second uprising had the same goal as the people, freedom from slavery. At present, we have political parties, especially those in power, stakeholders acting on the basic principle of democracy – democracy is when the incompetent majority choose a corrupt minority. Because of the spectral hate speech, no more satire, as a literary genus, no more Serbian media, all sold to Soros and similar, no waves or bubbles on the standing surface of the toad. We don't produce almost anything, we import everything, it's just trouble that we have nothing left to sell, so we have nothing to close the budget deficit. The second important flaw of this proposal, with good intentions, is the thesis that those who signed for the registration of the political party will be founders, and their names publicly available on party internet presentations and in the BIA, I have no doubt. The minister himself specified that the founders and all party documents would be public and that everyone who wanted to deal with politics would have to bear a significant burden and be aware that they were constantly in front of the public. Why did I say it sounded like a threat and putting on a list of similar and inappropriate? Because this government actually controls absolutely everything, and employment, and advancement, and scholarships, and pensions and communals. Does this mean, in fact, that supporters and founders of the current opposition parties will suffer the consequences because they do not believe that the political scene is grouped by the optimal number of parties being two? It was also a process and a scenario, to create these famous two parties to build up a political scene in post-Communist countries, so we say, what should Serbia be an exception, especially since its authority has already quietly allowed survival, primarily the formation, then the survival of the NATO state in one part of its territory, as if there were no other ways to restructure the political scene. To all of this, a particular issue for the minister, but also for the party he belongs to, is – who will protect political parties from discrimination by so-called. the NGO that openly attacks not only political leaders, but also prominent intellectuals and professors, although the Constitution guarantees freedom of speech and expression, and the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination declares discrimination on the basis of political commitment, as well as hate speech. How come there's no founder's name on the official internet presentations of the so-called. NGOs run by Biserko, Kandic, Vuco, Pavicevic?- I'm sorry. Perhaps because their founders and ideologists are not citizens of Serbia, they are members of the ruling establishment of some other countries. How can protecting political party sympathisers if the Serbian intellectual elite disqualifies just because they think otherwise? Is this a hate speech? Now I will read you a quote from the Helsinki Committee report – Self-insulation, reality or goal: ''According to the views of the contemporary intellectual elite in Serbia, it can be concluded that dominant nationalism has a chauvinistic character. He looks at the satanization of both external and internal enemies. The danger is greater for the last, because chauvinism is characterized by greater aggression towards the inner enemy. This nationalism has racist elements aimed at Albanians, which is only the unspeakable practice of institutions and majority parties in the country that characterize xenophobia towards all ethnic minorities. The academic elite's relationship with the regime is also visible based on the denial of genocide in Srebrenica, viewing the International Court of Justice's verdict as positive, and BiH's suit, as one that has little to do with smartness. The expressions "anti-West Course" and the propagation of a romanticised relationship with the nation are also an indicator and one of the causes of the blocked state in Serbia, which in 2007, for which the report was made, showed no change in the slightest towards the European future. One of the most dangerous consequences of the academic elite's operation is the huge media space available to them. 'Now, really, if it weren't terrible, it would be funny, because the national conscious elite doesn't have any access to the media at all. With this in mind and an explanation that everyone who wants to deal with politics must bear a significant burden and be aware that they are constantly in front of the public, indeed seems threatening. New Serbia, and its president Velimir Ilic, indeed, have a rich experience of carrying such a burden, because she was equally persecuted as she exercised power even when she was in opposition. It is as if some kind of competition has been organised in which the media will further throw into the spit of a man who has allowed many to sit here today and represent the people, many to sit in Germany and even on Andric's crown, as well as to freely report in various media. Probably, given this experience and recent attacks on the LDP leader family, we can't help but experience this kind of explanation as a threat. Neither we, nor Serbian citizens, among whom there are many capable, honest, spiritual and national-aware people, ready to be activated politically, not in the style of James Bond, "Danger is my bustiness". Is this, in fact, a kind of warning to young, smart and capable people to stay away from political engagement, because it can only bring them problems, especially if they're not from the show "Pointed Yellow"? It's as if it's not enough that our government is fighting against our past, and through it and our future, it's going to be a blurry and flabby fight. It is usually said that the teaching of history is in the function of totalitarian regimes, while democratic systems are immune to its abuse. But it's not exactly like that. The line that separates the use of history from abuse is quite thin and always ugly. The authorities of the serious countries are fully aware of what Henry Kissinger clearly said "history, it is the memory of the state". Hence, the teaching of history is always subject to national values and interests. Of course, when it comes to internal use of history, the governments of democratic countries have restrictions. A reminder of the past is found in the service of the ruling values of the current policy, but it does not systematically resort to historical engineering. However, when it comes to fighting for national interests abroad, powerful democratic countries are acting in the same way as totalitarianly on the internal agenda. In a science event held in Boston in 1996, our historian and diplomat Dusan Batakovic noted that many American historians drastically changed their relationship to Serbian history in a negative way. When he asked them what new knowledge they were based on a radically different interpretation of our history than the one they had recently represented, he received the answer that they were, above all, civil servants. As Batakovic wrote, they acknowledged that their job as historians is too widely seen as logistical support for the justice of their country's state policy towards the Balkans. Our government is not nearly as successful as the American in the field of mobilising the country's scientific and other potentials to support national objectives. Maybe that's good. We are trying to build a democratic society, and the United States, regardless of democratic tradition, is no longer a good example. However, one thing is to bring scientists to the level of national propaganda fighters and the other is fundamentally to lead scientific and educational policies in line with the interests of the country. Fishte said for many reasons, "We are what we remember." If we allow young Serbs and Serbian women to remember what Madeleine Albright, Hillary Clinton, George Soros, will soon have many more people indifferent to national interests without direct bribery, and even convinced that they are in the post-modern era and relevant. Since they will be convinced that we are a people burdened with mythomania and burden-collective guilt, they will not be suspicious that the country that speaks most of the universal values and humanism in international relations is selfishly protecting its partial interests, nor that the peoples of our environment, with whom we have been in conflict, and that we should apologize, while they generally overlook their guilt from the times of wars for the Yugoslav heritage, and persist in the pink vision of their roles in them. So Minister Markovic also said that the new law on political parties would lead to politicians being more responsible in their work and establishing a direct attitude between citizens and politicians. This is the direct relationship we from the NS have not even interrupted, because we are a folk party, the so-called party. ordinary people. And right now, our President Velimir Ilic and deputy head of the NS Group are at the celebration of the "Brana Petrovic" elementary school in Slatina. After nearly two months of absence, which meant no interruption of communication with citizens, Velimir Ilic was in this assembly until a moment, and now he is back in the people. We don't need a new law to create a new Serbia that comes from the people and keeps coming back to the people. Instead of the conclusion, I'll just say this: from my party's point of view, the "worst thing – that's better" principle doesn't apply. We are sure that the best we can do is lead our policies in a stable Serbia. Our policy is understood by people who have time to stop a little bit, think a little bit, and that can hardly be people who are scared, have no electricity, have no heating. Our solidarity with power exists as much as we, as a party, think with a chill about the possible collapse of the dinars, because it affects us. - "When there's noise, yelling, yelling, there's no way we as a party. Then the trained demagogues pass, traveling circuses passing through Serbia like gypsies, from place to place. 'Unfortunately, these words are not mine, this is a quote from someone you know well. Now a rewarding question for many who sit here and are in the party of power: who said this? Does anyone know? This is what Zoran Djindjic said on October 19th 1994, and this is the part that, as an authorised representative of the NS, would sign.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17111	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17112	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, the duration of the current Political Party Act proves that two decades ago, when it was brought in, it found the right measure to restore the multilateral system and political pluralism, where it had just made a valuable contribution to the SPS. It has been established on very liberal criteria that have made it possible to simply use the right to political organisation, and more importantly, it has not been an obstacle to forming or formatting a party system and functioning parties with any solution. Today's opportunities are significantly different from those of two decades ago. In Serbia, more than 650 parties, 440 in the register of Serbia and 150 in the former federal government's registries were registered in the register of political parties. For many of these parties, citizens have never heard of them, and their founders no longer remember their names. The production of new parties has brought in 30 new ones each year, and all this time the register has been wiped out barely less than 60 and that's 38 from the Republic Register and 21 from the Federal. In addition, the party system has consolidated. The parties passed a series of election tests, and the party scene essentially polarized. On the one hand, the parties that participated in the elections and the past status of parties in the opposition government or parties, and on the other, there was a large corps of states that essentially existed on paper alone, i.e. in the register. Their effect in political life did not feel, did not represent citizens, did not promote their programmes. They bothered and confused voters more than they contributed to the quality of the party scene. Over the past two decades, the parties have become an inevitable factor in stabilising democracy, whether it is thought positive or not. Their positioning in a normative sense should be upgraded by emphasising the party's responsibility and importance for the functioning of political institutions. We believe that the bill is good and that it contains a series of improvements and precision that will bring more seriousness to the party scene, allow greater public insight into the work of the parties. The law's intensities are not to be affected by party autonomy but to develop a stronger framework for the establishment, registration, organisation and functioning of parties in a way that will raise the quality of political organisation to a higher level and commit the parties themselves to a minimum of organisational and programming arrangements, which, by the assumption of those that are not thus done, can help improve their internal organisation and work. It is precisely the quality of this law, more complexly arranged issues of party organisation and suited to the needs of institutional reform of our system. This should at least be a normative guarantee of greater responsibility for parties to citizens, for the role they play in the system. In addition to this general feature, several newspapers deserve special attention. It's the first number of founders. The bill has raised the current limit 50 times from 100 to 5,000 signatories, and that is a major increase. The number, however, represents less than one breakthrough of the electoral body in Serbia. Is there any serious political idea in Serbia that cannot bring citizens into the party and what an exclusive programme that cannot collect signatures less than voter promiscation? What is the purpose of such a party if it is not some kind of political exhibitionism and some kind of economic activity to come close to the budget funds for the financing of the elections, because, certainly, those used on the basis of parliamentary status are invaluable for such parties. This number is not an obstacle to relevant parties, nor to minority parties. It can only be a problem for regionally-oriented parties and it is those who are facing voters in the area, for example, of a municipality. The possibility of raising that number to 10,000 signatures should be considered, as the number is needed for example to hand over the electoral list in the republican elections. It would be good, too, to specify by law whether 5,000 signatories are also party members. I don't think that's necessary. The law in the members at the beginning speaks about the founders and determines the number at 5,000, and later in Article 30, which regulates re-registration, requires 5,000 members. This misunderstanding should be removed for two reasons. First, it's hard for someone to join a few thousand citizens in a short time. Secondly, the trend in developed democracies shows that the number of party members is decreasing and is becoming less relevant for the post of the vote. This precision is necessary, not only for the sake of the parties, but in order to avoid confusion in registration, or in subsequent registration. The other thing that stems from such a stricter criterion, which is not within the law, is whether reaching that limit will apply to other proceedings and legitimateising parties in political life. I think it would be perfectly appropriate in the logic of this solution that parties registered under the new rules are free to collect signatures for the election of MPs and councilors, or that they have fewer limits than those who participate in the elections and are not registered as a party. If it can't be the matter of this law, then it's an idea that should certainly be taken into account in the reform of the electoral laws. The second aspect I draw attention to is to prescribe the party's obligation to make its work public. It's not a dispute, because the parties want to be as public as they can be. However, Article 16 is not precise enough. Information on founders, specific names, shall be required to be published. Here, it may be necessary to specify that other data cannot be published as a unique home number of citizens and a home address, because it is being hacked into personal data and these people can be hit with a variety of inconveniences. Again, if you publish only a name, I did that list, it won't speak much. These provisions should be specified, or by stating the consent of the members to do so or possibly by abandoning that obligation. The same shall apply to the publication of other general acts if the party brings them. It is a broad notion that can easily be avoided by the legislator's intention to make the party's work more transparent. For example, it is better to count the program, statutes, regulations, instructions or just limit yourself to the programme and statutes. Such a bill on political parties is a clear shift in the normative regulation of this issue and the SPS-JS Group will support this law, as well as constructive amendments that would perfect this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17113	The word has been made by MP Zoran Shami, the DSS Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17114	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, right away, let me say that the DSS absolutely thinks we need to pass a new law on political parties. The existing Law was passed at a time when Honorable counterpart Ruzic was 15 years old, was passed, I am afraid not with excessively fair intentions; the first version was passed as long as there was a single-party state, and later, however, there were changes, in a multiparty system, but again with one absolute power of the SPS. My impression at the time was, not only my own, but also many prominent intellectuals, that a law was passed that was to the maximum to compromise the idea of a multiparty system. Many of those 576 existing parties, I apologize, have been made by the police. They chose wonderful names, for example, "Party of honest drunks," and "Joggie-Flyers," so that I don't count, those who have a long memory will remember more of those similar names. It's certainly necessary to bring things down to the right degree and make the whole story serious. Therefore, the need to pass a new law is not controversial. But if it is not disputed to play the game, we are not too satisfied with the game itself, or we are not too happy with the proposal we received, without doubting the good intentions of the promoter, we think and we have a lot of objections. Two objections are global. One is removable, and the other is not. In fact, we think that the law on political parties should not only have the one party obligations of political parties, that is, those who make political parties, but also have to contain the other side, which are the rights acquired by organising a political party. In that sense, it was wise to get along with this text one text that is actually the subject of one other law, which is the law on the financing of political parties. We think it would be smarter if it were all in one law, not in two laws. That part, unfortunately, is indisposable at this point, because of course it is one matter that requires an important extension of the proposed text. The other part is removable and, in that sense, the DSS has written one amendment. Namely, the aim of forming a political party is to participate in the elections, paraphrasing it, you wrote it in one member, and that is correct, and we believe that by the very act of forming a political party under the conditions that are stated, and which we even think to sharpen, it is necessary to make it clear that these political parties themselves can participate in all types of elections, both in both parliamentary and local, without additional signing. So if I'm running for some party, say, in the presidential election, then I don't have to collect special signatures, and if I want to be a candidate under my name as an independent candidate, or I have a group of citizens in some local elections, then of course I have to collect signatures. I know you're going to say that it's the matter of the electoral law and that it should be regulated in electoral law. That's right. It is the matter of the electoral law and should be regulated in the electoral law, but it should be as the right to stand in this law as well. Tomorrow there will be someone else in power, some other coalition, either the day after tomorrow or in 10 years, however, should stand in the law on political parties' right to participate in the elections without collecting additional signatures. Because, to be clear, 10,000 signatures, if nothing else, cost half a million dinars, if 50 dinars per signature, verification of the signature, and maybe more, I don't know what the prices are now, and of course, is one endless waste of time and everything else. And if we're a registered political party, then it's natural to go to those elections, it's natural to have a presidential candidate, it's natural to go to local elections, province elections, parliamentary elections, and that's something we've proposed, so we think that, in addition to what needs to be introduced into the appropriate electoral laws, it should be as the right of political parties to stand in this law. The DSS had, in connection with its observations, a global dilemma – how many amendments to submit, not in the sense that we would distract this assembly, but whether we should insist on those remarks or just on the most important ones? We've defined ourselves for this second one. We have many different objections to various formulations in various members, but we have submitted only eight amendments. We'll talk about them in detail when there's a debate going on in detail. I'd only be apostrophe, I've already mentioned one, just two more amendments. We have made an observation, and we believe that this is a serious remark, to Article 18, which speaks of the name of the political party, where the legislator correctly, in addition to other things, predicted that the name cannot contain the elements provided for in Article 4 of Article 2 of this Law. So that's what it is about spreading religious, racial and other hatred. However, you have overlooked, or the promoter has overlooked one possibility. Imagine me setting up a party according to all our regulations, according to the Constitution, by law, by European norms, whatever you want and calling that party a national-socialist party. According to this proposed text, I can do it. We have made a proposal that no name can be given, or any names from the past that directly associate with a particular kind of policy. The second remark, I see that many here have mentioned it, and it concerns the number of signatures, according to our proposal that a registered political party can, without collecting signatures to participate in the elections, we believe that the number of signatures for political parties should be 10,000, or 5,000, to rise to 10,000. However, we don't think it's necessary to raise the signatures for national minority parties, and I'm going to explain that. There is, however, one mathematical explanation. The party to enter parliament is due to win about 200,000 votes. A minority party to enter parliament is due to win about 14,000 votes. If you put this in proportion to the fallout – if the political party's registration requires 10,000 votes, then 700 votes are required for the registration of the national minority party. National minorities are a broad term, but fortunately we have a lot of national minorities and I don't doubt that national minorities that are much larger, as the Hungarian national minority, Albanian, Bosniaks, etc., can collect perhaps more, can collect five hundred, certainly thousands and two thousand, but we think that the chance should be given to politically organise those national minorities that are not enough for us and that is why it would be good to leave the proposed five hundred signatures. Finally, right away, as always, I would say, with open arms, we approach the debate on this law, provided that the minimum number of objections we have made is accepted we would in that case support the law, but if our objections are not accepted, of course, in which case we will not be able to vote on that law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17115	The word has Minister Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17116	Thank you. I would ask Mr. Shami to vote for the law, based on the remarks you made and on what I heard and what we talked about, I represented this and all the other laws to all the political parties. I've also had this remark about being a guest in your party, and I thank you for that dialogue we've been having, especially because of that, I said, as far as 10,000 signatures are concerned, it's very meaningful to accept such an amendment, and I think it's key, to say, to this whole idea. As for the direct passing of elections, I told you, and I certainly will not give up on that – we have to deal with the electoral laws. This definitely cannot be the matter of these laws, so direct passing to elections must be resolved by election laws. I really don't think that we should have any dilemma, given that when the electoral law comes in order, whoever it is, and whatever power it is, when the electoral laws are normal, there is a dialogue between all parties to come up with a solution that will reach the greatest consensus possible. For the financing of political parties and I would like to have made one whole, but you know that this is a matter that is very clearly divided, from the work of different state bodies, and simply this law could not contain that part about funding. As for the name and last name data Mr Ruzic mentioned, as well as a colleague from New Serbia Alexander, it is important to know, these data are known to the state, there is nothing new. The state knows everything anyway, because our names, when we all joined and applied, they exist in all registers. These registers are public and every citizen can go and look at that register. It doesn't matter, we just want one more thing - to have the name and last name on the site. We must work to strengthen political parties' legitimacy in the public. Otherwise, a rather unarticulated part of political thinking will appear in the elections. That's why it's one of the symbolic approaches that's going to improve. As far as Mr. Ruzic's remarks are concerned, we've basically taken "general acts". We don't know what kind of general acts will be, the statutes are understood, and other general acts, such as the membership act that should also be, because people from home could be informed, so to say I will in this party or I won't, the membership fee is that big or it's not that big. It's nothing to argue with. We need to affirm this approach to using these modern technologies and we need simply what is public, because nothing is secret, to be available via the Internet. I'm saying again that the data is public. Mr. Shami is a member of the party, we know which and it's public and it can't be hidden. Who is willing to discriminate about this will come under the law recently passed by this assembly – discrimination on a political basis, as I recall, one of the most difficult forms of discrimination. Therefore, this law certainly does not resolve it. I agree with your objection to Article 18. It would be crazy to register a party under the name of a national – the Socialist Party and there is no dilemma there. I would like it here, and I hope that you can be satisfied with the explanation resulting from Article 19, where it is said – the name of the political party cannot be such as to hurt the moral feelings of the citizens. You practically said in your amendment that it associated you with it. It is a subjective assessment of the organ, and if it were to be a national -- a Socialist party, I would certainly refuse as a minister, because I think it offends the moral feelings of citizens, not only of us in Serbia, but probably of the whole world, but especially of us, given what sacrifices we had during World War II and to what extent at least no organization should appear here, any ideas that remind us of this evil times of fascist and national – socialist ideas. In that sense, look at Article 19, please, and I hope it will be in the same direction that you were just discussing. As for the parties of national minorities, let's do another round of consultations with both national minorities and think about it one more time. We have time to discuss the amendments, so we're going to solve that. In any case, I hope this explanation will be enough for the DSS Group to still support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17117	The word has been passed by Parliament MP Marina Ragus, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm just asking you to sign in so you can be registered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17118	Mrs. Comic, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the SRS and the people who gave us confidence in 78 mandates should trust you for a word when you say you want to put order into the lives and organisation of political parties. Here, I now doubt that you will succeed, perhaps that is your personal intention, but before a certain time you called one of the MPs of this parliament a Serbian Progressive Party. Now this time I ask you, Mr. Minister, what elections did the Serbian Progressive Party take part in? On the other hand, what is evident and what I would like to talk about in the next ten minutes is the political climate and the atmosphere within which we are talking about the draft law on political parties. You'll admit, Mr. Minister, I see that's what you said, that's what I've recorded here, you'll correct me if I misrepresented, that the capacity of each party is verifiable and verified in the election itself. On behalf of the SRS Parliament Club, I would like to ask you – what parties participated in the May elections, and what is the picture of the Serbian Parliament on today? Also, I agree with your finding that it is direct, I am a politician by profession, so I am trained for what I am talking about right now, very well at the Belgrade Faculty of Political Sciences, ending the electoral will of what is happening in the Serbian Parliament, that you have a club that represents and we cannot determine which political programme, given that it is a 'progressive' without ideology. Political confidence and the full conviction of the SRS is that in September of the month, the state-level project hits the SRS, and not only the SRS, Serbian society's respected academics, such as Prof. Costa Cavoski, said that the West was really interested in fragmenting the political scene in order to manipulate, and that is the political belief of the SRS. I will try to be as concise as possible to color the political atmosphere in which we talk about the law on political parties, in hopes of introducing order into political life in Serbia. Here, we say we don't trust you, Mr. Minister, because you broke it first. You have turned the will of citizens into political life and introduced a Serbian Progressive Party MP. Whether it's a lapus or not, it's something that certainly cannot happen to a representative of the executive government. To remind you, on 11 May 2008, precision works, the SRS list – Dr Vojislav Seselj won 1,219,436 votes, i.e. 78 seats. It is the only fact for the SRS, although democratic power in Serbia, when it comes to ending the electoral will, has failed the parliamentary democracy test. It's our political trust. So, when it comes to political mandates, it is not a topic for this kind of law, but a picture of the certainly political atmosphere in Serbia in 2009 and from the end of 2008, it is no doubt that it belongs to an MP who has the right to the Constitution, and we can only talk about constitutional categories, because it obliges us to do so as the highest legislative act. The MP has the right to give the mandate to a political party. In our case, the resignations have disappeared. Criminal charges and the proceedings themselves will determine the true truth, it is not disputed, however, the Administrative Committee has received three resignations that were subsequently given and the Administrative Board has actually failed to find the strength and to make a decision in favour of parliamentary democracy in Serbia, in society and in the state as it claims to be. We have no dilemma that nothing significant will happen in favour of the SRS and that this image of the Serbian parliament will remain. This dilemma of ours has been confirmed by direct interference, which we think is unacceptable and I would like you to answer that question, because you often know that you are commenting on, and are the views of the diplomatic representatives of the United States and the United Kingdom, who directly entered into the political life of the Serbian state itself by qualified relationship, nature, the future of certain parties. We think it's inadmissible. Again, we have no illusion that anything in favour of the SRS will change, in fact, the situation is next – we are in the political ring, that's our belief, because that's how we feel, you see here a wasteland, Mr. Minister, a small white spot, that's me. We're in the political ring where you tie our hands, tie our legs, put a blindfold on our eyes, and take the punches. So mandates are not the only problem. At the end of last year, it was also a budget vote. We tried to make a political deal concerning the mandate. We were saying then that the democratic authority in the exam, expressed doubts, did not God give something to happen to the MPs who left the SRS, from whom you will replace the mandates, trying to paint the full end of the electoral will. That didn't happen. The deal is not respected. What we could have done, Mr. Minister. We could have chosen, I'll only remind you of the period when you were the opposition, the legitimate ways of the opposition struggle. We have come to the situation of a change in the Rules of Procedure, to vote, when you ask for a word in the Rules of Procedure, that you have no right, and that the chairman or president knows what you're going to say and you get a warning. Our political belief is that everything works against the SRS. Of course, in all these processes, both the principles and rules of political struggle have been forgotten in the end, and this only reflects that there is no political climate in Serbia to come to a political agreement, and therefore we do not believe that you will succeed in this law by introducing order in Serbia under the protectorate. And that's our political belief. The evidence for that is daily. Finally, you have that the largest opposition political party, such as the SRS, is for us a fact of 78 mandates, which traditionally sat in two columns, the strongest opposition political party cannot sit, with all due respect to its opposition counterparts, behind the backs of a far less political party. The one who brought in the seating schedule expected an SRS response, and as it followed and 48 MPs were away from this regular session. This is a picture of parliamentary democracy in Serbia. I will try and work all these days, out of the stained veins, to introduce my fellow MPs who are far away in a decent manner. The authorising officer on this agenda was Mr Zoran Krasic, who sent information to this parliament, for which I unfortunately will not have time now, respecting the regulation on the work of the National Assembly, but also how I will give myself the freedom to prove political discrimination and to show why the SRS of all 1,220,000 votes of people who voted do not believe that you will succeed in introducing order in Serbia. The Serbian government is definitely a signator of what you respected for the murder of Milosevic. You've managed to reverse the election will of the citizens after the election! What's another proof of that? That the Serbian Progressive Party, as you call it, which is not part of this parliament, because no one voted for it, but for it, the Forward Club, the Serbian Serb who separated from the SRS, after hitting the SRS, was given the position and opportunity to publicly expose and support the regime, where the entire Serbian opposition had no place, even more rarely. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to convince me by the opposite arguments that you're really going to be able to implement this law in practice. So far, practice has denied the democratic nature of the Serbian government, which is the political and ultimate real belief of the SRS. In the 78-term Parliament, I alone, for the reasons I have already spoken of, represent my colleagues. My colleagues will not accept the schedule that stands in this assembly, not because it is the most important subject, but because it is a rule of parliamentary democracy, and as far as the strongest opposition party is concerned, they will not disturb order, they will not disturb any further course of the session and you must, dear colleagues, all of you know, but these people will stand, because they are the place in the front row. When other elections come, when other parties become the strongest opposition parties, we first won't have a problem with admitting it. As you know, we also, after all the elections we have made, no matter how far we go and how few or many votes we win, first we go out with results and congratulate all the participants in the election, because we think that's really the ultimate achievement of democracy. So, freely expressed political will in the elections. We're here, Mr. Minister, we've got "storred" because of the will of the American and British administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-07-0.u17119	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) In this case, we are finishing work for today and continuing tomorrow, 8 April at 10.00 hours, in the principle of the draft law on political parties. At the course of the session set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the president, or the authorised representatives of parliamentary groups who have not spoken today, will be entitled to the debate, and we will move to the debate after the application for the word in the main search, and in the order of the MPs handed over by the parliamentary groups, with the participation of Minister Milan Markovic. Thank you. Until tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs, I ask the MPs present in the hall to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The sound signal indicated that more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Jelena Travar-Miljević and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. I would like to inform you that National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic is in agreement with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called for the session, apart from the proposing representatives, to be attended by Jasmina Benmansur, the assistant minister of state administration and local self-government. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Political Parties (principles) In yesterday's working day we stopped during the work in the debate which was organised by the Rules of Procedure for Presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. Do any of the presidents or authorized representatives want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Pastor Balint. Here you go.
