ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20084	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I agree that 102 MPs are present. For the exact identification of the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' voting units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are found to be more than one-third of the MPs in the 85-nation hall, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Momo Colaković, Konstantin Arsenović, Đuro Peric, Radoslav Mojsilović, Riza Halimi and Meso Omerovic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the promoters, Dr Sasa Dragina, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I called for the session to be attended by Dusan Protic and Nebojsa Lazarevic, assistant ministers of trade and services and I welcome them. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE PRODUCT SPECIFICITY (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the draft of the law by the MPs: together Milica Radović, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Dimitrijevic, then Lidija Dimitrijevic, Sreto Perić, Srboljub Živanovic, Ljubomir Kragović, Dragan Živkov, Dobrislav Prelić, Milan M. Nikolic, Zoran Popović, Dragan Stevanović, Milan Avramović, Dušanka Plečević, Radiša Ilic, Milan Škrbić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Radica Jocić, Bojan Mladenov, Dusan Marić, Natasa Jovanovic, Marko Milenović, Petar Jojić, Mirko Munjic, Nikola Mužić, Nikola Svić, Nikomir Plužarović, Vladica Milojković, Vjera Rada Rada Rada, Dumir Krasović and Štić. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Do you have a problem with identification? We've already called from technical services to see someone. Did you answer your word? Let me open the session. Of course, you'll get the word. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government is proposing that the amendment be rejected. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. Before I give a word about the amendment, Mr. Todorovic answered. However, there is a problem with the identification of the card. Just a minute. Please take someone's card, we know it's you, so we'll ask technical services to help us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20085	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I think you should take care of the Rules of Procedure, that the Rules of Procedure are not broken. Article 149 is both precise and clear, and it is said: "The legislator, the committee responsible and the Government, are obliged to consider, before the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments which have been submitted to the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments they propose to be accepted by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected". We don't have an opinion. So, I don't think there are any conditions for us to move to the agenda. It's a fundamental thing you'd have to take care of, because we'd have to have an opinion, no matter what the minister is there, which he can accept in the course of the debate some of the amendments. I think you should take a break and get the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20086	Government opinion came in a few days ago. I have informed you that the Government is proposing that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20087	We didn't get it in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20088	Please, that's the opinion of May 14th. You've got that opinion, you've got it in the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20089	I'm not saying whether it's 14 or since, for some time, it's been repeated that we don't get certain papers in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20090	I'll check it out, but I'm afraid they're in your parliamentary group. All MP groups have received the government's opinion, so now we're going to bring you the number of expeditionive letters and we're going to find out a little bit. Of course, it shouldn't have happened if you hadn't won.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20091	Madam Chairman, I'm not saying it's on purpose, there's a possibility that a lot of material may have made a mistake, that the technical service didn't deliver. We didn't get that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20092	Okay. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20093	We can't follow.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20094	According to the expedition's records, you were delivered as well as everyone else. We're really gonna have to keep working. I'm sorry if there's been a technical problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20095	I don't want to go into the debate, I don't doubt you're sorry, but we don't get many things, and we should, among other things, answer parliamentary questions. When I asked a question about that scaler upstairs, I still didn't get an answer on what was next to the SRS parliamentary group? Last week I asked, they told me it was written. What's written? Roman? I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20096	Mr. Todorovic, you know it's a formal deadline for an answer for 15 days, but you also know it's a RTS camera. But, well, you'll get a written answer. Thank you. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Nenad Popovic wants a word, did you sign up? Would you like to sign in, Mrs. Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20097	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the ministry, the primary objective of the proposal for a general product safety law should be to eliminate any possibility of finding dangerous products on the market, and thus to eliminate any possible damage to the health and safety of consumers themselves. We believe that this objective of the bill is not fully achieved and therefore we have responded immediately to the amendment in Article 1, where we have asked that the safety of the product be determined before the product is placed on the market. That's where we primarily think about the products that are imported. A large part of our public is familiar with the example of imports of carcinogenic toys for children and clothing that contain colors that in longer skin contact cause severe diseases. I will only remind myself that the EU has banned the sale of children's plastic toys containing materials added to that plastic to soften it, as in close contact with children it can cause severe damage, both liver and kidney. I think these toys, which I was just talking about, were recently found and could have been found at a mall in 70 block, so-called 70. China's mall, which, without any control, came into our market. I believe that consumers in Serbia are not completely sure about the safety and quality of the products they buy, and unlike, of course, consumers themselves in the countries of developed European countries, which, in some situations, single out maybe even less money, but our consumers. (President: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20098	Mrs. Elvira Kovac has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20099	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, representatives of the Ministry, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present in just a few sentences the views of the Minority Club and the SVM on these laws, since we have not been able to do so in principle because the debate was indeed in the late hours. Neither the SVM nor the other MPs of the Minority Group have amendments to this bill, which means that we will vote, that we will support it in the voting day. But I'd really just like to briefly explain why we're doing it. The essence of the adoption of this law is that all producers are obliged to place exclusively safe products on the market, i.e., on any basis. Under this law it is prohibited to produce, but also to import, or export or in any other way distribute, products called so-called ‘products’ on the market. It's misleading. This would mean that all products on the market should be marked in an appropriate manner, a clear, very understandable explanation for all the risks they have in them. We certainly support this labelling and hope that it will be better in the future, as mentioned in the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products. The basic reason why we are talking about this law today and why it is necessary to pass in Serbia a law on general product safety is to ensure a high level of protection and security, firstly, of natural persons and people, and of course, all others who use various products in their work. However, just passing this law, in itself, is not enough. It is necessary to additionally adopt appropriate technical regulations, in a manner and in accordance with the law governing the various technical requirements for products and evaluations with the prescribed standards, i.e. product safety requirements. It is precisely because this is the principle of regulating this area in all EU Member States. Our country, the RS, has various obligations and by signing the SAA itself, its ratification is required by all the countries that conclude it with the EU, that at the first moment, in the first phase of harmonisation of its legislation, first of all focus on the basics of economics and trade, which are consumer protection, standardisation, we passed the Standardisation Act and, of course, to assess the consistency of all products that will be placed on the market. By passing this law, the law on general product safety, in our country's legal system, will finally remove certain legal gaps that exist, unfortunately, as we heard from our colleague, in terms of product safety. Since, after we pass it, this law should apply to all products whose safety has not been regulated by any regulations so far. Positive effects, as I mentioned, of this law apply. (President: fellow MPs, please be a little quiet, so I can follow what my colleague is saying.) Here you go. ) I thank the president for the intervention, and I hope that his colleagues will calm down as well. Thus, the positive effects of this law, as I have mentioned, will primarily apply to natural persons themselves or to consumers, but also to other economic operators and other legal persons who use different types of products in the performance of their activities. Two things that are most significant, why SVM MPs and the Minority Club will vote in favour of this law are, that the application of this law will affect the prevention of unfair competition, because for each producer and all distributors, there will be finally equal, clear rules regarding the production and distribution of purely safe products, without any risk. Taking action and penalties proposed in this legal text will eliminate all producers or distributors from the market, and especially producers, who are very conscious, but unfortunately, at the expense of product safety, will reduce prices and thereby unfairly compete with other producers who took care of the safety of producers and other users.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20100	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20101	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic is, by submitting the amendment to Article 1. The proposal for a law on general product safety tried to process and formulate matter in a better and better way, which covered the proposal for a general product safety law. However, as you will see during the later debate, what prevailed in the thinking of the legislator, these are primarily two items that I will present this time. Namely, when it comes to all the amendments that we have submitted to the SRS parliamentary group, it is generally dominated by the fact that what the Government has proposed is, in their opinion, a more technically correct formulation, i.e. everything that is related to the members of the law mentioned today in the assembly procedure is mainly based on the harmonisation, i.e. regulation of directives and EU regulations. With this in mind, I must point out that we in the SRS parliamentary group had really the best and sincere intention to make all the amendments that we have submitted and to the proposal for a general product safety law, as well as the proposal for a law on electronic trade, which we will talk about a little later, so that we will try to contribute to a higher level of consumer health and safety protection that will buy products for final use, as well as other users who will use the products for their own needs, i.e. to carry out their professional activities. We have respected this and suggestions, both the Union of Consumers and competent institutions. First of all, I think of the views of the Chamber of Commerce, however, on our quite disappointment, it is obvious that we have not come across much of an understanding shift, and I do not seem to want any serious and correct approach and consideration of the amendments, in this case, of an opposition parliamentary group, therefore the SRS. It simply cannot be taken away from that impression because it has only confirmed some of our pessimistic predictions that it is indeed the real reason for the adoption of this law, as well as the numerous previous ones that were previously in the assembly procedure, only one mere harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation, and it has obviously become an obligation that the government and wants and must fulfil because it lives in the belief that the EU will accept Serbia in its membership, not wanting to open its eyes absolutely to the truth that the EU does not actually want Serbia under its auspices. Therefore, when adopted by the congregation’s majority, this bill of law, either by will or by precise means, will practically remain only a dead letter on paper, there will be order, but will not be applied. This, unfortunately, is also the fate of many laws in Serbia that are allegedly being brought into the interest of citizens, and what you like especially to highlight, in the further course of Eurointegration. The two arguments that dominate the government's clarification of the refusal of amendments and colleagues of Lidija Dimitrijevici, as well as other colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group, are, as I have already pointed out: the formulation in the draft law is more legal-technically correct and that it is not in line with the legal standard of the relevant EU directive. So it's all, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, clear as day. It is obvious that this bill is dominated by that too strong import lobby, which we also pointed to in the debate in principle, and this time it showed its strength. The fact is that in our market and after the adoption of the general product safety law, there will continue to be everything and that the priority in all these arrangements will remain the amount of commission that someone will receive, not the characteristics of the products to be imported. In translation, if the commission is appropriate, it will be less important whether the product is safe or not. This syntagma for Serbian citizens is nothing new. In such conditions you live years ago, and since you do not, as a case of the largest number of citizens, have enough money to buy the product you want, it is clear that the old practice will continue, or buy similar for the money we have. Maybe it doesn't even fit the quality or the other characteristics of it, but if there's a need for it, because for the better, there won't be enough money, then we buy one, so we don't run out of anything. So, using some difficult long-term conditions of life for Serbian citizens, it is obvious that those who are also proposing such legal solutions and whose even global financial crisis comes as a joke provide for the penetration of all kinds of products on our market. My colleagues and colleagues, as well as the Serbian public, will remind you of one fact that due to a poor legal solution, a case of the presence of dangerous children's toys can be repeated, which has already been said here, when it turns out that the mark on the declaration is actually not a guarantee of safety at all, and we have paid particular attention to that segment in this bill of law. The problem is that such a label is not allocated by official competent organisations and institutions, but, as I have already said, has been placed by the manufacturer to indicate that the product has been made in accordance with applicable directives, I do not know whether it is the EU or what Directives it has been called on here. However, this allowed the smooth movement of such a product on the market, and that is the general problem, since there is no necessary data on origin, chemical composition, handling and the rest, and that is necessary in order to be sure whether in this case the toy or general product is safe to use. By rejecting the amendments, you confirmed the SRS' views that, among other things, you blindly adhere to the EU directive, although you know the fact that even in the renowned shops in our country, as well as in large-scale distributors, products with a SI label have been found, which have been withdrawn from the EU's markets due to toxicity. By rejecting the amendments, we will be witnessing that products which, according to the rules in force, should not be found in free sale are, for example, based on a solution to the border inspection of regularity or something like that, as was the case in certain Chinese shops in Zajecar and Bor. In order to get into our stores, all products should go beyond the health control of the sanitary inspection and the health ministry. Therefore, the importer is obliged to report any consignment imported, and the customs service should not carry out customs duties until the sanitary inspector has received a solution that the consignment meets the health regulations in our country. In addition to the site, laboratory tests are carried out in health and other competent institutions. Since a lot of goods are coming to Serbia from abroad, we have indeed added great importance to the proposed law, so the law on general product safety, because it concerns absolutely all of us, so consumers, but we believe that one strategic approach has to be made to solve this problem, because it is clear in the members of the law that it is not possible to regulate or prevent the appearance that, for example, in customs, every item in the contingent has to be checked, but the products are controlled selectively. The importer shall also be required to complete the translation of the declaration, i.e. the instructions for use, restriction and prohibition of use if they are contained on original copies or if there is a need. If invalid, import is prohibited and the goods are returned to the delivery or destroyed, if vomiting is not possible. Products which have no evidence of the control of the sanitary inspection, i.e. health inspection on imports, most likely do not have a legal origin, which is the subject of controls and other inspection bodies, I do not think such a law is regulated in a valid manner. Despite all these controls, there have been some in our market, and thanks to this law, I'm afraid there will be future products that are not safe. I have to mention this time, when we're talking about the declarations, a case of glass glasses that collect after washing. Yes, you've heard well, so, on the wine glasses that were found in the sale in downtown Belgrade, in one store of the famous foreign house equipment chain, a declaration has been taped that the glass was literally collected in both length and width by 2%, and the procedure, otherwise the expensive glass wine glasses standing on the declaration, is being prepared by the sewn label. Many irregularities on our market are related to the emphasis on product declarations. On many products, there is not even a declaration or any relevant data. In large trade chains there are frequent failures due to major traffic, so traders miss to highlight the declaration because it cannot be physically stuck to the product or it is only formally highlighted by a bunch of products. It is clear that all information on the declarations must be accurate and unequivocal. However, we are increasingly witnessing that only the EU stands on the declarations instead of the country in which the product is produced. Market inspectors in their practice have had cases of consumer deception, because they are known cases that traders are self-initiative, without checks and laboratory analysis, print out the reference and place it on the product. The Serbian public was pretty upset about the Ariel case, the multinational company Procter ~ Gamble. It has been proven that this company shares the market in both east and west. Many multinational companies underestimate consumers from transition countries, which unfortunately we do. The supply of goods at the quality limit is subject to different standards or criteria. Multinational companies in chocolate for the eastern market place less cocoa in devices cheaper and less quality components, in detergents and products to clean less active ingredients, etc. It's an example, unfortunately, of a brightness. Another purchaser fraud that had to be regulated and the general product safety law, as well as some other accompanying legal acts, which essentially meant a hidden increase in prices, is also a reduction in the quantity of the product. This newspaper comes from elsewhere from the EU, which abolished the regulation on the standard size of the food package. Thus, individual producers, not waiting to join the EU in 2027 and 2100 years, immediately began to apply new rules. Now, for example, a 100-g chocolate can weigh 80 or 90 grams, and milk instead of one liter of 0.9 liters. Here's the information, say, that Imlek has reduced the amount of acid products from 200 to 180 milliliters. These products are absolutely not notified, because the goods are packed in the same packaging, the quantity is reduced, but the price has not been changed, at least not lower. The quantity of the product is in small, barely visible letters, written on the package. Absurd above all is that Serbia imports many agricultural products that itself produce in quantities greater than market needs. It may be good that agriculture minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Sasa Dragin, attends today's session, because I believe that the area is both threatened and linked to such a legal solution. It is known to all that our agricultural producers also produce healthy and quality fruits and vegetables, but they face the problem that not only can they not export surpluses of products, but simply cannot sell on their own market, because imports, examples, work, artificially and mature tomatoes, which are more green than red, cabbage which is hard and white, etc. The quality of these products is unknown, but they are sold at significantly lower prices than domestic products. (President: Just to remind you that it has been 15 minutes, but you can use the time of the parliamentary group. Will you? Here you go. ( ) So much for that famous action – let's buy some homemade ones. Such prices are also the result of the subsidisation of agricultural production in EU countries. In Serbia, unfortunately, everything is diametrically different. The money from the agricultural subsidy budget is increasing. The prices our agricultural producers form are mostly based on the cost of buying seeds, artificial fertilisers, pesticides, seed costs, irrigation and the like. If all of this is in mind, and the government cites the formulation in the rejection of the amendments – because they are contrary to the strategic documents that define EU membership as Serbia's priority goal, then we really need to ask ourselves what this is all about. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, only a decision on the unilateral application of the SAA to this troubled state has caused an additional 267m euros in budget deficit. It should be recalled that the opening of the market for agricultural products from EU countries makes the competition a market match with a clear and unequal nature. The additional burden is a number of problems such as the government's debt to producers, buying problems and buyers, problems with bank loans, non-functional laws, poor infrastructure. The EU pre-accession funds for Serbia will open only after the membership candidate's status has been obtained. Therefore, the unilateral opening of Serbia's market without the use of funds that would potentially help the competitiveness of agriculture, according to the SRS, is an entirely unreasonable act, and when we consider it, then it should not be surprising that the explosive rise in food prices last year has led Serbia into the position of the European recordmaker in the crowds. So, let's say, according to the latest data from the EU Statistics Agency "Eurostat", the only country that has recorded higher food prices in the last three years is Latvia. Only the prices of services are lower than the European average, and there is almost no group of goods in which our country does not precede the purchases. That's why we Serbian radicals by who knows which way we point out that all of these are so-called. pro-European laws, where the general safety of products, as well as the one on electronic trade, and especially what I was talking about, therefore, unilaterally applying the trade agreement, are nothing more than marketing tricks that would show the domestic public an alleged shift in Eurointegration. Unfortunately, from this farce, a large number of Serbian citizens will have long-term damages only. As a state, we're practically entering a high-risk zone without any protection. The proposal for a general product safety law should regulate and prohibit the production, import and export or placing on the market of so-called products. misleading products. What should be noted is that the misleading product, although it reminds itself, is not a food product, but there is also a significant likelihood that consumers, and especially children, use it as a food product, which could pose a risk to their health or life. Unfortunately, we also have an example of a product like this. In order to increase the sale of school rubber wipers, one producer made them as strawberry smells. What further, as an SRS parliamentary group, have we tried to influence amendments to improve the bill? You have, among other things, more words about this later, in Article 10(3), defined that the manufacturer is obliged to, depending on the characteristics of the product and within the limits of its activity, take activities and measures that will enable him to recall and withdraw products from the market, with a view to eliminating, or reducing the risk to an acceptable level, within the meaning of Article 4(3) of this Act. Practice has shown that from our market products are withdrawn mainly by order of competent inspection authorities. Until irregularities are detected, the product is sold on the market, which is absolutely inadmissible. Before the end of the draft law are also mentioned the criminal provisions in Art. 22 and 23 for commercial offences, i.e. in art. Twenty-four and twenty-five related to violations. This is where the SRS MPs, primarily in view of the situation in our judicial system, which has long ceased to be immune to corruption, tried to influence the amendments that the perpetrators of these economic crimes and crimes are being punished and indeed punished. However, the defeating fact is that competent authorities only take measures when something really big happens, so about everything, say, media dust. Here is the apparent lack of interest of inspection and judicial authorities to self-initiately engage in the detection of business offences and violations, as they all unfortunately only guard their jobs, just as Boris Tadic recently ordered. If they object to someone, they may be able to join a million-dollar army of unemployed in Serbia. Powers, i.e. successful businessmen, as they formulate themselves here in the law, good businessmen are ruthless. There is no such thing as forgiveness in their verb. The laws of their market are written by them, and these laws adopted by the Assembly are simply not recognised. When Serbian radicals ask for an amendment to "with the attention of a good businessman" to be replaced by "in accordance with the law", the government rejects it, with a famous explanation of EU technical regulation and regulations. If we have all this in mind, and this is the bill, and this work and the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture, then it should absolutely not be surprised at the situation in which Serbia is. It is a lot of defeating parameters that point out that Serbia simply is an overindebted country and that such a bill is not a way, is not the way, is not the solution to get out of all this. So for now, we'll move on later, when this debate is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20102	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Ljubomir Kragovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a general product safety law, to Article 4, which reads: "Article 4, item 1, point 4), after the word "sacona," the comma is replaced by point and comma, and the rest of the text is deleted. ''The objective of this amendment is to avoid, above all, any possibility of ambiguous interpretation of what is actually a dangerous product. No further clarifications to the term "hazard product" are considered necessary, and here we see that this concept is complemented by the availability of other products that represent a lower level of risk. Now a logical question is raised – who determines whether a product represents a lower level of risk and what is the objective, I would say, of easing the concept of a “hazard product”? This reminds me of one part of the law in the field of environmental protection, where the term “hazardous waste” or “a packaging that becomes more dangerous” has often been modified and changed, so that it can be interpreted in two senses. Serbia will have a big problem in the future -- how to defend itself, I would say, from the flood of dangerous products coming, among other things, from the EU and despite this law, to the Serbian market. It is well known that there are codes on certain products from imports – which are intended for the market. This is the best example for citizens to see how someone in the European Union thinks – what toys can their children play, and what toys can our children play here in Serbia? Whether it's toys, whether it's technical goods, cattle food, food products, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that many products... (President: It's been two minutes, bring the discussion to an end. That doesn't matter. It is important that many products in the EU are already banned, and unfortunately, they are sold and used extensively. If distribution, import and sales do not stop after the adoption of this law, then all this is only done to meet the EU requirement – to adapt a large number of laws to these EU directives, in exchange for false visa promises, accession, EU accession, probably 50 and 100 years, etc. What is a dangerous product will remain on our market, perhaps only repacked, with other codes, as we can all assume that large quantities of products are found on supplies in the EU, where they are banned. This must be distributed where it can pass, which is – the Balkans, Asia, Africa and Latin America.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20104	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Tomislav Ljubenović submitted the title above Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20105	Here, and during this recent amendment and what I tried to point out in my first address, this is the government's argument – for which the amendments of my colleagues, Radisa Ilic, as well as my colleagues, have been rejected, i.e. mainly for reasons that are not in line with what it says, with the legal standard of the relevant EU directive to be taken over by this provision. So that's an explanation for most of the amendments that were rejected by the government, submitted by the MPs of the SRS. We wanted, therefore, and in this case to point out certain problems, possibilities and ways of solving them, so when it comes to the EU, for example, we are surprised that the bill's proposer did not deal with it – that Serbia still has no practical system for rapid food safety warning, which has proved very effective in this Europe. The example, thanks to one such system, was warned by British competent inspections in mid-January by EU members – that they had recorded gas-bound alcohol poisoning imported from Austria, and that product was soon placed on the blacklist. The RAS FF alarm, a so-called public alarm system due to non-secure supplies, has never rang in Serbia, and we have been bypassed by a number of RAPEX warnings -- a European system for alerts to non-secure goods. This problem is mainly addressed by certain consumer organisations, internet portals, while the state and its competent services await this famous entry into the EU, when they will be obliged to protect the market and worry about consumer safety, although no country is prohibited from using the data of these same European services, primarily to prevent imports of suspicious quality goods. The question now is, is there really a desire and commitment to do so? According to RAPEX, for example, in the previous year 1,340 non-secure products were withdrawn from the EU market, 40% of which were toys, which were found in the Chinese 70 shopping mall in New Belgrade, according to claims by the national consumer organisation of Serbia. Consumer organisations have warned that there is a real possibility that discarded goods from the world legally, due to outdated and insufficiently defined regulations, are re-emerged or imported into Serbia. Otherwise, that EU membership is not the only way to protect consumers, it also shows an example of the country in the environment, Croatia, which uses alarm system information, and has also made its own pilot project modelled by RAS FF, where 67 medically invalid foods have been withdrawn from the market within a year, and the largest quantities of these goods in Croatia have just arrived from the Western European market.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20106	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20107	Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 10. The proposal for this law states that the manufacturer is obliged, within the limits of its activity, to provide the necessary information to consumers and other users who will allow them to assess the risk that the product may pose during the period of its use which determines the manufacturer or reasonably foreseeable period of use. I have submitted an amendment suggesting that this formulation of a "reasonably predictable period of use" be deleted. In my opinion, it's too broad, too free a formula that leaves room for different interpretations. Where different interpretations are found, there is also a space for misunderstandings, disagreements, a space for certain abuses, which can ultimately have tragic consequences. The question is, what does a reasonable period of use mean? For some reasonable period of use to use a particular product can be five years, for another can be 25 years. What's reasonable for someone else can be completely unreasonable. I'm asking a practical question, let's say what happens if someone who deals with filling and distribution of gas bottles puts in the market used gas bottles that are 40-50 years old. Practically end-users, users will receive time bombs in their apartments, business premises, and the distributor can be called upon to make a reasonable period of use of gas bottles. We know that through Belgrade, Panchevo and some other Serbian cities, tanks of dangerous substances, chemicals may pass daily, may happen that distributors decide to distribute in tanks that are 40-50 years old, which have expired. I believe that the only reasonable solution is that this, otherwise excessive, formulation is deleted and that the period of use of a product is strictly determined by the manufacturer and in accordance with the existing standards and in accordance with the legal rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20108	National MP Natasa Jovanovic, who wants a word, submitted to the 10th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, member of the 10th regulates the obligations of producers and distributors. Given that Minister Milosavljevic is not here, I must inform you, although I believe you have all noticed that in this article, the last position, one of the proposings has happened, a provision that has never existed anywhere before, in any law. I'll have to read it to you. Namely, when it comes to the process and the measure of warning, possibly the manufacturer may withdraw, and this is what the promoter says should do on its own initiative, a product that is dangerous for safety and which cannot be further traffic, imagine, the promoter explained this to us: ''The product recall measure takes a self-initiative measure only if it is estimated that other measures are not sufficient to eliminate, or reduce the risk, and can be implemented also on the basis of the rules of good practice regarding the recall of the product, if such rules exist in the Republic of Serbia. ''This leads me to the conclusion that this law, like everyone else, is written in the EU office, that it is translated here and that your employers, is it so, which gave you this law and a package of other laws, wrote that if such rules exist in the Republic of Serbia, you implement them, and if they do not exist, then let, because no self-initiative producer has decided otherwise, the product remains on the market. We are coming into a situation, and so is my amendment, Article 4(2), that we really need to make a commitment to the manufacturer, because I have made this university provision that reads - when it is necessary for the manufacturer to examine the product sample on the market, on behalf of the SRS, I simply deleted it with an amendment. He can't - when it's necessary. A sample of products, especially foreign ones, especially those that, according to their substance and dangerous possible substances containing them, a colleague named Jeremic spoke about toys today and in previous days, but could also be in any chemical product. We're going back to what's really true. It is seen for both the quality and the price of these products, but what concerns Miskovic and other tycoons, they will import it, which was made for the Eastern European market and will not care for the quality, here you can see that neither the foreign producer nor the domestic producer is obliged to exercise control and withdraw the product from the market. Don't think, especially our ladies in Serbia, that products related to cosmetics of world-renowned companies are the same quality as those sold in Western European countries. Of course they're not, and we know it very well, when we travel there and see what the price of that product is there, the original, with these substances that contain the original product, and what they are here. It's the same case when it comes to eating. That's why it's very important that you accept this in the voting day, especially because you see that the legislator was wandering. But I'm really standing on that starting point of mine that actually this law didn't come from our resolution ministry, because if it were, you wouldn't find a provision like this. As far as these good practices are concerned, so-called. And let's buy our own campaigns, remember when it was. Did this campaign -- let's buy it domestically, have its beginning and its end, or did it just take someone to promote it in one period and, as our people would say, wash the money for a project? I mean, specifically, former Minister of Trade Bojan Dimitrijevic. How did this turn out later in practice? Not at all. Who's the one who's pushing today and standing behind some home brand? Who is he from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is especially not Minister Milosavljevic, who advocates that more of our products be present on the domestic market, because if they did so, they would not have these products of poor quality for these world-class companies working for the Eastern market. I urge you once again to vote in the day of voting, especially because of the fact that these are dangerous times, the time of the severe financial economic crisis, when people, in addition to barely single out the last dinar, have four eyes to open when it comes to product control and quality, because they are primarily intended for children, the younger population, of course, and adults, to accept this amendment and that the manufacturer knows, at any moment, that both the party and the domestics, that a rigorous control must be carried out and that the sample must be examined on the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20110	National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 10 relating to Section 5, to add after the word "producers" to the words "are obliged to take those measures that this member normises". Why? It's not allowed this stretching, indefinitely, legally non-binding character, no orders. It is necessary to add in this article the words that producers are obliged to take what is provided for in this Article. Because if he doesn't have a duty and a duty, and we wait for the competent state authority to take appropriate measures, it's absolutely unacceptable from our point of view, from my point of view as a lawyer, because a citizen and a manufacturer can take what's right with him. It can deliver on the market and products that come from past times, to be of poor quality, to be dangerous to the health and environment of people. Therefore, this standard was incomplete and my opinion was that it should be strengthened by producers being obliged to take care of their products, to act securely, to act responsibly on the market, not to pose a general risk to human health and thus to establish order on the market. This team before we consider after the suspension of customs duties and imports of each waste from abroad, that our individual traders also import that powdered milk in tonnes in Western European countries and other countries of other continents in warehouses for a decade. In 1919, our famous scientist, Mihajlo Pupin, spoke about this, about the quality of the product, especially agricultural, from the area of cereals, fruit growing and vegetables. He talked about it a lot, and it was accepted by the cooperatives, and I think this amendment should be accepted for these reasons, for food safety reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20112	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20113	Mirko Munjic submitted an amendment to Article 11. The bill, where he asked for the first sentence of the words "with the attention of a good businessman" to be replaced by the words "in accordance with the law". Of course, the reason for the rejection of the amendment was also insurmountable, as well as in all situations. Because, really, what does that mean now, a good businessman? Are the good businessmen of those who "enabled" Serbia to move between 60% and 70%, that the net external debt increased from 2000 to 2008 in euro by as much as 28%, i.e. that it is now close to $30 billion? Are these good businessmen the most responsible for Serbia's "economic growth" between October 5th 2000 and today, as it is clear that this characterizes lower growth rates compared to foreign inflow rates, increasing the country's debt, etc.? So Serbia's external debt grew at an average annual rate of 13.5% in dollars, while the average annual increase in external debt was 6.22%. Clearly, there was no economic growth from these and the good businessmen mentioned. You know how much GDP is projected for 2009. Ambassador of the SRS Mirko Munjic intended this article 11. The bill gets meaning and gets one legal framework and has asked for a change of words "with the attention of a good businessman" in the words "in accordance with the law". The worst thing is when the law doesn't exist, and worse or equally bad is when it exists, but it doesn't apply or doesn't respect it. It was precisely the wish of the amendment’s proposing to regulate this matter in some way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20114	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Radovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20115	The amendment that we have submitted to Article 11 tightens the obligation of the distributor in that it obliges it to deliver exclusively products that it knows are safe. We don't think that a distributor should be given the opportunity to deliver products that he can assume are not safe, just because the distributor isn't, or has to be, a professional person. I'll point out the provision of a bill defining what a distributor is. It is said here that it is a legal person, an entrepreneur or a natural person who is within the limits of the activity he carries out in the supply chain and whose activity does not affect the safety of the product. When we know all of this, then I really don't know what information it needs to own to figure out or assume that the product is safe. That is why we have submitted this amendment, deeming it necessary, for the sake of consumer safety itself, to limit the obligation of distributors to deliver exclusively products they know are safe. As with the previous amendment, I call on the Ministry's representatives to reconsider it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20116	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliament MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted to the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20117	We have another situation with Article 16. In fact, the EU Commission has decided to prohibit or restrict the placing on the market of products that pose a serious risk to human health and safety, and now, based on that decision, our government should adopt an act that is closer to regulating the rules of behaviour of distributors or producers. We have submitted the amendment, believing that a 20-day deadline for the adoption of such an act is not an appropriate time-limit, because it is very long and our amendment refers to a reduction of seven days. We believe there is no reason for the government to be given so much time to put together such an act. We believe that it should not be forgotten that it is products that pose a serious risk to human health and safety and that is sufficient reason to lead us to the need for urgent response. We think it would be good to reduce this deadline to seven days, so that the consequences themselves will be excluded before any consumer who would buy this product in danger.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20118	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17 of the amendment was filed by the Ambassador of the Prophet Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20119	Article 17. The proposal for a general product safety law speaks of inspection and customs supervision, as the title above Article 17 reads. In point 7. The draft law states that the competent customs authority will temporarily suspend the customs procedure of imports or exports and release of products suspected of being misleading, here we added 'or that the product poses a risk to the health and safety of consumers and other users', which remains to be urgently informed by the competent inspector who is required to carry out inspection surveillance within 24 hours of receiving the notice and determine whether the product is misleading. It is not logical for us to reason that the amendment is not accepted because the provision of Article 17 applies only to misleading, not to all dangerous products. The essence of our amendment, Mr Minister, is precisely that this member, namely the position of the 7th member, does not only apply to misleading products, but it is equally important to refer to products that pose a risk to the health and safety of consumers and other users. Since somewhere else in this law you have not regulated this product group, and you have to admit, if you compare misleading products that pose a health and safety risk, in order to take over even this group of products for which we have intervened with the amendment. I expect you to reconsider and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20120	Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20121	This amendment wants the SRS to extend the fact of something written in Article 17 and, as Mrs Radeta said, not only when it comes to misleading products, but also products that pose risks to the health and safety of consumers and other users. It's probably the same reason or, to be precise, an excuse why the government has not accepted this amendment. I think this agenda point is significant for one maybe and a wider analysis of why this is necessary to regulate the law. It is true that in this bill, regardless of how these sets of provisions are viewed, there are provisions that regulate the obligations of manufacturers and distributors, there are provisions on which the state body is responsible for which the tasks in meeting these obligations, and it is an obligation to provide, first of all, a guarantee to the consumer that what it has bought corresponds to what is and not only declared, but for which there is a guarantee that it represents safety for the consumer and that all possible harmful consequences are prevented from happening "callers" and some other things. You bought in good faith, counting on the product of that quality and after a while it turned out to be a different product entirely. I get the impression that neither the state, the state authorities, nor the public are quite certain of what a misleading product is. Probably citizens have a chance to watch these commercials, or between commercials, they can also see the news, and some movie... I'll use time for what the SRS has. You know, in the end, television turns out to be about commercials. Everything else is a side effect. When you watch our commercials, it's all misleading commercials. First, which has a lot of plagiarism elements compared to those commercials that are abroad. Secondly, there are commercials like that that really change mental consciousness. In a commercial for some shampoo you see a feminized man holding a child and the message is very dangerous, strong, strong. Or being with your friends on a vacation, on a cruise. Or what you can see at the Ibari Masteral – it is no longer "Lasta" but "Lastra" Lazarjevac. As a society for these things, we have no answer. How many other manufacturers who visually match a branded product, such as "pepsi-cola", "coca-cola" etc. Or that -- through a vein that flows your coke. It's all part of that action – only once you live, it's only one life, now or never, now get everything. We've become victims of these great corporations. You got 10% more for the same money. You must know what's causing it. The cause is that someone wants to make a profit in a senseless way, not choosing the means. He's able to get into the product, what characterizes his quality, his ugliness and some surrogate. No wonder there's something from India that looks like sugar, and it's not sugar, it's like glucose, and it's not glucose. Later, it turned out to be some sort of toxic substance. The public must know that for maybe 15, or more, 20 years now, since some quality standards have emerged, Western European markets have turned up to be closed to products coming from the side. Why? Because in this process of stabilising the economy in Western Europe, they first stabilised and secured food security for all these countries. Believe me, for 15 years, there are no more pictures of Spanish warlords throwing tomatoes or others throwing cucumbers, or the French protesting, wasting milk, sometimes wine, because they provided, above all, food stability over their stock funds, and they are in their agricultural and food production essentially fighting for premiums, fighting for what the EU is giving out of the common fund to ensure stability. No wonder, in the Western European Union, you already have in their livestock sugar for the next five years. So three years doesn't have to give birth to them, they already have food security. This country in one period wanted to be industrial at all costs. The process was from village to city, but not for economy, but for man to free himself from property, so he could not be independent, independent. Thus, there was a kind of depression of the price of agricultural and food products, an increase in the prices of industrial products and this process of migration. If this government makes at least 1% of the effort to get people out of town to the village, not to abuse themselves there, but that whoever with 10 acres of property in your Vojvodina, from where you're from, Mrs. Comic, if he can live with those 10 acres well, then we've done a good job. But ever since you came to power and 10 acres doesn't help him. There are some Sugars, some agencies, some firms, buying out bamboo, and destroying our production. So, the EU is well protected, it has invented quality standards for agricultural and food products in particular, but also for all other products, and is thus made famous for the maximum of French radio television: "This is for us, there is no one there anymore." Then they moved on, so they started all their foreign trade partners from the north and from the west and from the south to condition – if you want to be present on our market, then your products must meet the conditions in question. It's that other kind of closure. Then they came to, as the EU sign and that blue cloth with yellow flags, i.e. stars became a symbol for those who were never in the EU, then they realized they were making products for special markets, so "colgate" in Serbia is not like "colgate" in Switzerland and France. Then the question arises – and why is it not the same quality? Which distinguishes the quality of teeth in Serbia from teeth in France. We see that they think there's a big difference. So then we got a situation to get in here products, no one even knows what that quality is. Unfortunately, there are some inspection services at the border that run this phytopathological analysis, being examined. The question is, is that exactly what it is, since today's packaging sells goods. You know, if it's nice, nice packed, so it can be in there and nothing, it's baiting attention and people buy it. We need to defend ourselves from it somehow, so we don't have to be so gullible. But how can we defend ourselves and not be gullible when an import lobby creates the Government of the Republic of Serbia? You saw for yourself, there's been a bill on confirming that agreement. We unilaterally abolished customs and now with dumping prices, dumping prices compared to our terms and our prices, goods from abroad and by the system – everything that flies, it can be eaten, everything that comes from the West is good. We now have a situation that in a few months we will probably have milk without milk fat. We'll have yogurt without milk fat. We'll have everything without it, because it's all dangerous. Look at the very interesting situation, 20 years ago, you from abroad told us that five-package is the solution to all problems. He says, but if you want to use it, you have to buy our machines too, you have to buy those blowers and everything to comply with European standards. Don't lie down, they said a few years ago. It's like holding water in oil in a plastic packaging. It's not good, it can't fall apart, you need to go back to the glass, and now it's standard glass again. Some destroyed the complete packing plant with glass packaging, introduced these blowers. Or to give you another better example, twenty years ago it was said – it's not nice to eat eggs in the eye, mayonnaise can be taken. The same ones who sold us mayonnaise plants now say, no, mayonnaise is not good, there are some additives that are dangerous, they are carcinogenic. On these few examples, you can see that it's not about quality, it's about interest. You're interested in those who are strong or those who are from the West. I remember in time, in some big credit project of theirs, I think it was the last major project in that former SFRY, it was the Morava 2 project. Development, reportedly, south of Serbia. Approved loans to buy Italian and Swiss equipment and machinery for the production of agricultural and food products. What happened? They sold their machines that they couldn't sell in the Western market and sold technologies that were already obsolete at the time. They were obsolete back then, but there's a group here that's thinking about the system, money coming from abroad, it's supposed to be taken, because if we don't take that money, we're gone, there's nothing from us. That's why you need to be careful. Of course, it should be taken into account as much as possible about the quality of the product, especially these foods, because they are the most direct concern of life, but also of all others, especially those who are on electricity, for safety purposes. Please, don't insinuate those standards of theirs and their picnics related to their technology, to destroy shaded cheese, goldibor prosciutto, woody ajvar or something else. Let us eat our triglycerides, our parents, our grandfathers ate them too. While they ate that -- they lived 80, 90 years. Ever since we started eating this pro-European technology, it's been hard to get over 65 years of life. I suggest that the government adopt these amendments because they are submitted, first of all, with a desire to improve this regulation, but also to warn everyone. The regulation to be adopted, unless applied as it is written, should not have been passed. What are the regulations worth to us, when customs and inspection authorities know that they are staring, as in time that Dan Tana is elected President of the Red Star Assembly, so he says - I am not a member of any party, but I have always voted for DS. Keep an eye out, 'cause there's no room for DS in ajvar. Ivar is still red.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20122	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Mrs. Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20123	This amendment, as well as the previous ones that we have submitted to this bill, should show the highest level of seriousness, i.e. the responsibility of the competent state authorities when faced with products that pose a serious risk to human health and safety, i.e. when faced with dangerous products already placed on the market. We believe that, in the event of an urgent withdrawal of dangerous products from the market, it is necessary for the competent inspector to warn consumers of any potential risks contained by the public. We have responded here with the amendment in this very sense, where we have asked for the notification to go through public texts, whether they are electronic, whether they are written, because we consider it to be an extremely serious situation, because it is already a dangerous product on the market itself, so it requires a general notice from all consumers, or citizens. If the primary objective of this law is to eliminate any possibility of a dangerous product being found on the market, and it has already been found, then it is necessary that the competent inspector adequately responds through the public vote itself, in order to prevent the possible occurrence of any adverse effects on human health and safety. From the very explanation of this amendment, which the Government has given, that it is concluded that the competent state authorities will not necessarily apply this type of notice, which I find entirely unacceptable, if human health and safety are at least in the first place.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20124	Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20125	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 18, shall be governed by the jurisdiction of the inspector and the authority of the inspector in the control of the safety of the product, and in paragraph 1, point 6), point 2) shall be regulated and what should be done by the competent inspector when he finds that a dangerous product is on the market. Let me remind you that the moment you from the yellow company opened the market, the unilateral application of this agreement allowed a large number of very dangerous products to be found on our market. Of course, these same products under the same name are located in the EU, but it is a completely different quality and a completely different product. I remind the citizens that when they buy the product, they look at the declaration, but they bring the bat, because in very fine letters it writes E, well, some of the numbers and, let them look at what those markings mean. It's mostly dangerous materials found in the product. What should a market inspector do now when he finds that a dangerous product is on the market? In this point 2), point 6), Article 18 is said to order, coordinate or, where appropriate, organise with manufacturers and distributors and other bodies, recalling products from consumers and other users, including forced implementation, etc. I asked the amendment to delete this "or" if necessary and to put "and." Then it would be, if he ordered, coordinated and organized... (President: Excuse me, would you like to extend the time? )......................................................................................................... I'll take another minute from the time the party has. I asked him to coordinate and organise with a manufacturer or without a manufacturer, with or without a distributor, but to remove this product from the market by health. I have been answered – the amendment is not accepted for reasons that are not complete, since the measures envisaged can be implemented, that is, taken alternatively. What does that mean? There is no alternative when a dangerous product is placed on the market. I believe that the MPs, given what I said today, will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20126	The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic, who wants to explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20127	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, on Article 22, I have tabled an amendment to change the words "500,000" by the number of "1,000,000" dinars. The explanation of this amendment is that, given that public health concerns are first priority, it is necessary to make this legislative provision more stringent and thus reduce the range between minimum and maximum penalties. Given all that we have been saying today about this bill, the proposer gave a large range of penalties according to New Serbia's stance. This amendment primarily refers to criminal policy and, in view of all of this, it is necessary to reduce the range of penalties, for the simple reason that 500,000 is really very little if someone wants some products imported, that it is such a quality that it threatens human health. I don't see any reason why the scope of the sentence is practically 500,000 to 3. 000,000 dinars. I think the government should accept this amendment for all of these reasons I've listed. First of all, someone who wants a product that is extremely dangerous to include and thereby endangers the health of our citizens should be absolutely sanctioned with greater penalties, which is, above all, in the spirit of better application of this law, and once again I call on the minister to accept this amendment, because someone will risk 500,000, can import something, but the penalty of a million dinars and so on, the question is whether anyone will dare. In my view, the difference between minimum and maximum punishment was to be reduced even more, but I did go with such a proposal for a simple reason, which would certainly have some kind of general prevention in the application and criminal policy of this law. There is no possibility of someone being punished from 500,000 to 3,000,000 dinars. Therefore, a great possibility is left for those who weigh penalties to practically lead one policy of different arches and it is not clear on what basis points 1, 2 and 3 will apply. Don't make a difference what's harder, whether one, two or three. Therefore, for each of these provisions, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this proposal, it was necessary to clearly separate and practically make a selection that is part of this criminal policy, whether it is who puts a dangerous product, whether it is who makes imports or exports, by misleading a product or three - does not take action to withdraw. I think that should have made one selection and, more correctly, practically, qualified these ranges. However, I was carrying on the idea that by accepting this amendment, a lot of things would be improved in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20128	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20129	In Article 23, paragraph 1, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a general product safety law to change the word "300,000" by 500,000. All that I've said about the previous amendment would also apply to this amendment that I have submitted. Therefore, a more responsible and rigorous policy of this law would be made to account in particular for the import and export of quality products, and it is important to change the range between minimum and maximum penalties, which will further ensure legal persons are responsible for carrying out their work. Therefore, the proposal for a law on general product safety is a constitutional obligation. The Proposer shall, pursuant to Article 97, point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, introduced into the procedure of this law. This law provides for the placing on the market of exclusively safe products and will prevent the production, import and placing on the market of misleading products, but also their exports. We have practically two things here. What currently bothers absolutely this country when it comes to both economics and economy, is that in our country, much more imports than products are exported, and practically, when it comes to this criminal policy, will exclusively be brought down to what we are importing, because it is clear that there are no export criteria, absolutely such as, it is practically impossible to perform something that is not in the standards and quality of the products, but when imports, things are happening that imports of such products that threaten both health and safety of the population. During previous some discussions, New Serbia has submitted a very good amendment and we have had great problems and troubles practically with the Committee and with the Minister, and we have had little to change, but this amendment has been accepted when it comes to importing long-range batteries, extremely toxic things, and by accepting our amendment, at least in this segment we will avoid that products clearly have to be marked with the amount of live that is in those long-term batteries. The citizens of Serbia may not even know how dangerous the long batteries are if they are not removed properly when they are removed, or after they are used. Fortunately, accepting our amendment in the future will no longer be able to endanger the health of the population, at least when it comes to the product. We will have great problems in the functioning of our economy and economy, because we see that by applying this SAA, which is one-way, we have endangered a large number of our exporting people. In this country, everything and everything is being imported, we have put absolutely our good producers at risk with this application, because one big competition will be further made, and I'm sure our products are much better than what we import, but some import lobbys aren't interested, they're only interested in profit from all that. Therefore, some of our people who produced in the wood industry, who for years were prisoners of the difference in course from the purchase of that balvana that serves as a repromaterial to the final product, were often in an exceptional proportion between the course which was 7.5, and we know that the purchase of that balvana from which the production was calculated according to the rate of 8.5. People have lost a lot. These people are in big trouble right now. All this applies to agricultural products as well. In several of my discussions with the speaker, I often considered that the state simply has to help when some difficult moments are to subsidize agriculture. We had big problems last year in the caneland with the production of their traditional product – paprika, where it was a catastrophic year, where people were disastrously lost on these products, but the state did not respond adequately to stimulate these people not to repeat themselves in this year. I'm saying all this about the law, that it must be stimulated to export these products because we know that in particular these products, peppers, tomatoes, carrots from that area often ended up outside the borders of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20130	The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Would you like a word, Mr. Savior? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20131	By submitting this amendment to the 26th New Serbia Parliament Club, he wanted the words "three years" to be changed in words "two years". The explanation of this amendment is that the three-year period is too long and is therefore more comprehensive and justified to be two years old. At the same time, the proposed two-year deadline will force state authorities to conduct a misdemeanour procedure to be more up-to-date and efficient. Of course, I'm not happy, let me put it this way, by reason of the government. Therefore, the government has explained that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the overall reduction of the limitation period is, given the non-restrictive reduction of the limitation period, given the importance of the area governed by this law and the fact that it is a relatively new area in the domestic legal system. There is no reason for this word “relatively new area. ” Practically, this amendment would force state authorities to react more quickly. So, a two-year deadline is one deadline that is in a violation of the time limit of limitations. In many situations today, we have thousands of various infringements on the road and, of course, the non-starting of the infringement procedure within two years leads to antiquity. If, in this large amount of these cases, the state authorities, i.e. misdemeanors, can account, go through red light, various penalties, belts, some events, it is absolutely absurd to extend the deadline to three years for something that threatens the safety of the population. So, within two years, absolutely state authorities commit themselves to react faster to failures that are extremely dangerous, so something about human health specifically. I see no reason for this explanation of "a relatively new area". It simply had to be tied to the general principle of obsolescence in a misdemeanor procedure and there is no problem. I see no reason why this amendment is not accepted. There was absolutely a place for him to be accepted and by accepting this amendment, I repeat again, the state authorities leading the procedure would make them work faster, which would lead to one legal certainty both in the country and, of course, would force all these people involved in importing and exporting goods to be practically more binding, to say the least.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20132	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20133	Whoever dealt with the amendments, looked at them, looked at them, could notice that when it comes to the new law on general product safety, very few amendments to the SRS MPs were requested to delete certain members. As regards the amendment to Article 28. The bill, it is ultimately the highlight of this whole story and the peak of nonsensus if there is an explanation that has come from the Government, and believe me, I absolutely believe that if by any chance it were accepted that it would absolutely not reflect the proposed legislative solution, because this amendment was asked to delete Article 28. For those who may not have had the opportunity to become familiar with the proposal for a general product safety law, I will only say that this Article 28 says that on the day of accession of the Republic of Serbia, the words in Article 4 of point 79 of this Act "recorded in the relevant register of the competent authority in the Republic of Serbia" will have the meaning "registered in the European Community", the words "have no residence in the European Community" and the words "not registered in the relevant register of the competent authority in the Republic of Serbia" will have the meaning "not registered in the European Community", and the words "no residence in its territory" will mean "no residence in the European Community". There is nothing more logical than the amendments I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, which is that this Article 28 is deleted, and I am more than convinced of the correctness of this proposal, given the reasons given by the legislator, so the amendment is not accepted because it is contrary to the National Assembly and Government strategic documents, which define EU membership as one of Serbia's strategic objectives. In this time as long as it is left for the SRS parliamentary group, I will not bid again on the year and century, a millennium in which Serbia will enter, if ever ever enter the EU, but only once again, to the public, to remind me of some exact data that points to the fact that the citizens of Serbia and how much this country costs one such relationship that this government has to that institution, or organisation called the EU. That is how it is now reflected after the first quarter of 2009. It is clear that what Serbian radicals have indicated when it comes to unilateral application of the trade agreement, that it will bring a lot of problems, that it will produce one deficit in the register and that figure that the economic council of the SRS has had, and that is unequivocally confirmed by all other eminent economists, which is that the deficit will be around 267m euros. But this is all the consequence of exactly a sentence that best confirms what I said today in the opening note, that this proposal for a general product safety law is nothing more than a mere alignment with EU legislation and that it is in principle clear that, like many in a series, it will not live in practice. Speaking of those 267m euros, I just want to say that this is a sum that is four times the amount provided for by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, four times the amount foreseen for the Ministry of Environment, by a third of the funds of the Ministry of Infrastructure or almost six times the amount foreseen for Kosovo and Metohija. It is clear how much these funds would mean for a diplomatic struggle that should be fought both for Kosovo and Metohija, for additional funds that would allow judges better working conditions and higher wages or for what was said today, that by any chance these funds are directed towards our farmers or for the construction of infrastructure. But that's how it is when some things that all citizens feel don't want and won't admit to the government. The damage caused by the unilateral application of the agreement with the EU is evident. If it is evident that the import lobby we were also talking about, obviously even when making this law, as well as numerous previous ones, has involved its fingers, then we should not be surprised that it is a really big question why such a law if it is practically inapplicable in practice. With this in mind, therefore, we in the SRS parliamentary group have tried and through discussion in principle, both through amendments and with the acceptance of suggestions, the objections they have made to this proposed law, and here above all I think about the Consumer Union, etc., to sort of correct this. Unfortunately, the legislator did not have the understanding and desire to accept some of our amendments. It is humiliating for us MPs to have reasons for refusing to be a type - that they are legally regulated solutions, i.e. the formation of a government representative, such as this in the end, that it is simply contrary to Serbia's strategic goals, which is EU membership, of which you see the consequences. So, as far as the SRS is concerned, it will not, of course, support such a law, because even when it is adopted by will or by the congregation's majority - it is clear that it will not be possible to apply it in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20134	Since we've completed a search of the bill in particular, does Mr. Dragin's proposal representative want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Crossing to the 3rd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on ELECTRONS TRADE (individuals) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Mirko Munjic, Milan Škrbić, Boris Aleksić, Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic, Ognje Mihajlović, together Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Đurić and Milos Radulović, Milan Avramović, Zoran Krasić, Ljubisa Petković, Vesna Marić, Marina Toman, Milan Vesenović, Bojan Mladenov, Vladan Jeremic, Dragan Stevanović, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Nikola Savivić, Momcilo Duvnjak and Dejan Mirović. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. He wants the word Mr. Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20135	So here's another law, an e-commerce law, which, if it has its application in practice, could somehow help the economy at all. However, given again one fact that by the legislator we have not come to understand when it comes to amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, including counterpart Boris Aleksic, I doubt that this law, like this one we spoke about earlier, will indeed remain inadmissible in practice. You know that even during the debate, we have pointed out in principle that in Serbia this area is still practically unregulated, because despite the attempts of the professional public to in some way promote the advantages of electronic trade, both for domestic economy and for citizens, the shifts made in this previous decade are almost ephemeral and are only individual examples, whose knowledge, inventory and enthusiasm cannot have a major impact on improving the general picture. According to some of the data we have, there are very few providers and users of electronic trade in Serbia and its participation in total traffic is almost negligible. Unlike some other countries, the example of the United States, where about 70% of trade is done electronically and EU countries, where it is about 40% of total traffic, in Serbia, it is such that only a few companies operate in this way with other companies and, above all, in the foreign trade segment. In order for this area to be properly formulated, it is essential, above all, to make one essential approach, or strategy, to solve this area. So, above all, there is the need to introduce electronic public services, electronic administrations, electronic health care, learning, and environments that will allow electronic business to develop. Of course, to make all this possible is that there is a secure information infrastructure and opportunities to use some fast internet at competitive prices. The future of development of overall electronic business in Serbia will depend heavily on the pace of the development of electronic trade. However, the direction in which this area will be developed and where the legislator tried to limit it through the members is primarily the development of these public electronic services, which would have to enable easier and more efficient business, development and use of technologies that help in electronic business and trade, and ultimately I am the development of these electronic services, both commercial and non-commercial. Electronic trade in the world actually represents one of the most popular, most represented types of electronic business. However, as we have already heard what is de facto, in Serbia a very small number or narrow circle of people uses services in this way. There, with a lack of fast internet access, there is also a lack of valid credit cards, funds for payment, a pe-poly, for example, it is still not possible to use from Serbia due to lack of trust in internet transactions, as well as lack of electronic signature. I'll just remind you that Serbia is the last country in Europe to pass the Law on electronic signature, but it's a much sadder fact - that this law is not applied in practice. So, I said that in EU countries, trade is done by electronic means at quite a percentage. Such a proposal for an e-commerce law should provide for this area, which I have already said, in some kind of a turning point in Serbia. So the perspective of some kind of development is only in the years to come. Data show that, for example, by e-commerce in Serbia in the following year, 346m euros could be achieved, showing that it is indeed a serious area and a law that should be sufficiently correct and seriously committed. As far as the SRS is concerned, we with these 22 amendments, if I'm not mistaken, have tried to complete some of our vision of this electronic store, repair certain members of the electronic trade. However, I say again, with a dose of disappointment, that no amendment has come to the government's acceptance. We especially wanted to point out the aspect, which is so based on some very important research that has recently been published, which we used in the submission of amendments -- these are some research done by the Republic Statistics Institute and the E Target Company, which refers to Internet usage. So now I speak in general for this area for e-commerce purposes, which is next -- in Serbia, 35.6% of the population uses the internet, and only about 7% buys online. The amount of 137,000 euros is not small, as such traffic was recorded by electronic trade in Serbia earlier last year. I said what the projection is for next year, and that's why we felt that this law, the e-commerce law, is extremely important for further functioning in this area. So, as far as this data is concerned, they're very indicative, because it probably meant the so-called ones. B2B and B2C sectors combined, where in Serbia 46% of users are already buying cards and 57% are ordering business. All of this is in fact an indicator of the potential of electronic trade in Serbia. What we wanted to point out is the fact that it is a very important role of the media, which should be quality enough to promote such information, in order to intensify the development of the "on-line" business in Serbia. The shifts made in the previous decade are, I say, very small and are mostly based on some individual examples. Whether this law, or by regulating this area through this law, will lead to some shift, I cannot say, because again I am concerned that even as an e-signature law, some set of laws that should fully regulate this area, that the e-commerce law will not be implemented properly in practice, which I do not think is good. Because we have to accept these world trends in this area and it is up to us to decide whether or not through legal solutions we will be able to contribute to the development of the economy in general, and hence to some better living conditions for citizens in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20136	The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Djuric and Milos Radulovic jointly submitted to the 8th amendment. Miroslav Petkovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20137	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, a little request, if you could tell me how much time is available to the DSS parliamentary group? (President: 24 minutes. ) Thank you very much. It is completely undeniable that Serbia needs an e-commerce law and DSS MPs believe this is an extremely important area, in which we can make great progress in relatively short time and with relatively small investments. But the fact is that this law will still remain a dead letter on paper, because with 23 members it has been tried to solve a very large area, a complex area, without serious desire, and intends to regulate the market through information and communication technologies in one serious way. In particular, in Article 8. The draft law issue of unwanted electronic trade is treated only in one sentence, which says - using e-mail for the purpose of sending the unrequested commercial message is allowed only with prior consent of the person to whom such a type of message is intended, in accordance with the law, and nothing more. One serious, let's say the world's problem, because over 80% of e-mails belong to the category of unwanted mail, is treated with only one sentence. We tried our amendment to point out to the government that it is necessary to regulate this area through some other act, because the area of PAMA is complex. It can also serve us well the comparative practice and experience of some other countries as they solved it, how they solved data storage with the provider, how the issue of blacklist and a number of other things that this law does not foresee at all. So I'm afraid they're really not going to give the desired results, since there's no law on the electronic document in our legal system. Without these two regulations, believe me, this law will not be able to produce certain results. We just mentioned the e-signature bill. It doesn't apply either. Practically, this will be one law in a series of those laws that we will state as if this parliament had adopted to increase the number of laws adopted, and in practice it will not produce any results.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20138	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the misreading of both the Government and the legislator of this law, I have tabled an amendment to Article 10, because if we take into account the fact that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly is interpreted, we can come to the conclusion that interpretation can be broken into someone's head. I have submitted an amendment to Article 10 for a reason, but not the third electronic contract and contracts to which the law is not applied, simple application of these provisions of the contract relating to inheritance rights. Therefore, Article 10(2), where statements by parties and other participants are said to be made in the process of discussing the legacy, the form of a legacy, the agreements on concessions and the distribution of assets for life, life support contracts and inheritance agreements, as well as all other agreements in the area of inheritance law. Why did I let the term or word "other" be replaced by "all the others"? Because we can come to an interpretation for future contracts that are of hereditary law, which will not cover those contracts, they may not, perhaps, be, depending on the interpretations that have already been adopted, such as agreements on the validation or determination of property relations between spouses, etc. Terminologically, it's just an amendment to this article's proposal. Nothing else, for the sake of safety, that these contracts are unrelated to the e-commerce law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20140	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Ambassador Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarian Milan Veselinovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20141	By submitting amendments, counterpart Bojan Mladenovic practically wanted to point to a real situation where we are in an area, in general, taking on electronic business, and hence what this law will, at least, regulate, and that is electronic trade. We also considered the practical state of the field, as they say. One of the factors that could greatly affect the non-application of the law, in the way the proposer considers it possible, is certainly an insufficient number of computers available to Serbian citizens. The state has taken some steps to make these computers a more favourable, accessible population, a reduction in VAT from 18% to 8%. However, the factor still affecting the difficult development of electronic business is a small number of users with fast internet connections. Also, what we wanted with this amendment, as well as some others, to try to correct, is to particularly regulate an area that is of great importance, which refers to advertising on the Internet, where, for example, some studies, from 2007, earning from advertising in the printed media, by 2010. The example works, out of 70m euros, spent on advertising in Serbia in 2006, only 1.26m euros went to "heline" advertising. You should know, it should be applied. Only electronic business plays a major role in international business, it greatly facilitates, so any non-exploitation of potential, non-application of law or the application of bad law could practically limit the development opportunities of the national economy, which we talked about at the beginning. Also, the problem with the adoption of this law is what colleagues were talking about, which is not applying other laws in this area. There, first of all, is the law on electronic signature. You know that the electronic signature should completely replace its own signature in all these procedures, except in several law-abiding cases. We're supposed to have this so-called so-called. a qualified electronic signature, which should reliably guarantee the identity of the signatories, the authenticity of the electronic document and shall prevent subsequent denial of liability for their content. Some positive developments are also taking place in the field of online payment funds, as there is an increasing number of banks offering cards that can be paid via the Internet, but then we come up with a situation where citizens of Serbia, or those data that I have already provided about the percentage of us who use the Internet for these purposes. Since most of these primary conditions for the development of e-commerce in Serbia could be removed by the application of an earlier law, the Law on Electronic Signature, which is now in the assembly procedure, the Law on Electronic Trade, could be removed by a large part of the barrier because the spread and accessibility of the fast internet above all could be greater. All it takes is for all these laws to be united through some national strategy for the development of an overall information society, in which it is recognised as one of the priorities. We also believe that it is necessary for Serbia as a state to take one such direction in terms of the development of public electronic services that would enable easier and more efficient business, application or development of electronic trade and increased use of technologies that help in electronic business and trade and, ultimately, as I said, the development of electronic services. All of this would be applicable or acceptable in the event that the e-commerce law does not experience the fate of the mentioned e-signature Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20142	The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Đuric and Milos Radulovic jointly submitted the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20143	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this is a key objection to the bill, because Article 15 of the proposed law does not address the issue of the timing. Article 15, which treats the time of conclusion of the contract, completely disregards the question of determining the exact time of the conclusion of the contract. Most types of communication via the Internet, except that it's very fast and hundreds of thousands, and even millions of transactions can take place in one second, have no reliable way of determining the time in which a particular transaction took place. That is why we have submitted an amendment that provides for the introduction of an independent body, an undisputed authority which would give an electronic seal when a certain transaction occurred and thus ensure that the participants in this trade do not later encounter any problems or disputes, because the fact is that me and the minister can conclude a particular contract and it is possible that he or I return the date to their computer is also possible, either him or me, or the participants in that trade, to create a deceitful action and when the contract is concluded. This problem is regulated in some countries that deal seriously with this electronic trade. We should have copied their solutions if we really wanted all the participants in the store to be absolutely safe. Is it possible to have court disputes? Yes, it is. Is it a practice in European countries that a body like this exists? Yes, it is. Did we from the DSS propose an amendment that regulates it? We did. Did the government accept that amendment? It's not. The question now arises whether there is a good intention and a sincere desire for this law to live in practice or whether this is just another one in a series of laws that will not be applicable and if there is an abuse that this law practically opens up, because when this area is not regulated then it can be imagined what can happen in traffic – that judicial disputes are being conducted, that costs are increased, that these disputes are being drawn up in our judicial bodies for years. I guess it's of interest to all of us that this law works and that a large number of transactions are being conducted right now. We heard just now how much trade can be expected after the adoption of this law. There is a real danger that this abuse is committed, that Article 15 is not applied as it says, I think it's a great danger. What is interesting, that is, is the information I presented in the earlier presentation, because the government says the proposed solution points to the application of a particular form of confirmation of the contract, an electronic seal that is not particularly legally regulated. That's the problem. We're passing e-commerce law, and we have an e-signature law that we don't apply. In order for all of this to be done, an electronic seal law and an electronic document law are needed. So two regulations we have, two regulations we don't have, so now imagine how all of this is going to work in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20144	Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Elvira Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20145	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, since I was empowered to speak in principle of these two draft laws, to state in a few sentences the position of the Parliamentary Group of Minorities and Members of the SVM on the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Trade. We will support this bill in the voting day. We have not proposed amendments, but I think it is important to highlight the positive aspects of this law, because usually when we discuss in particular we hear only negative ones. As we know, this bill regulates the most commercial message, i.e. what is very important, the rules of conclusion of the contract in electronic form and similar issues in themes such as electronic trade and electronic business. I believe, and we all know that today, in recent years, but now it's definitely growing and there's more and more sales of advertising on the Internet, so we can't afford to lose ourselves in this world either. The contracts, regardless of how strict paper forms are held in this country, can also be concluded by electronic means, in electronic form. It's a big public debate, I'm talking about it from a personal example, since I went to the University of Subotica on business information systems, so I was called professors, assistants, when this area will finally be regulated. According to this legal text, the assumption of fullness and the existence of a contract requires the signature of a person. When the signature of a person is required then, according to this bill, this will satisfy the electronic signature. An electronic message qualified by electronic signature in accordance with the law adopted on electronic signature. In the debate, in principle, several MPs said that we should move away from the adoption of legislation, so electronic trade itself and electronic signatures are not enough but should be based on overall electronic business. As I mentioned, globalisation and the development of new technologies are influenced everywhere, so here we are, creating new business conditions. So much mention and necessary industrial economic growth is possible only if we remain at the heart of global and informational electronic events. Electronic business, and in the speech itself, is based not only on electronic trade but generally on electronic business, as we all know, opens up the possibility of a new kind of communication with consumers, but also on competition, and thus creates the possibility of being competitive, which is what we in the Minority Club and SVM consider to be extremely important and positive. Electronic business is a way of doing business involving several commercial transactions that are being carried out in general or in part by electronic means. It includes not only trade, but advertising, promotion, sales activities, supply, etc. The adoption of the e-commerce law, which we are currently discussing, will finally fill, again, a legal gap, i.e. there will be a legal basis for equating electronic forms of business with the only possible classic so far. Electronic trade allows many improvements, such as faster finding of the most favourable bidder, affordable business transactions related to both marketing and production, transport, etc. This way of trade, including business, will create very favourable new opportunities, thus creating conditions for increasing productivity and reducing costs, which is, we will all agree, the basic economic objectives of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20146	Mr. Vladan Jeremic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20147	In order to make it more clear to the colleagues present in the hall, Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted an amendment to which in Article 16, following Article 2, proposed to add a new position 3, which reads – The person in Article 1 of this article is responsible, unless it suspends the further transmission of the message from the users of services, for which the content of the messages already transmitted is available to the evidence that they are contrary to regulations and morals, especially if the content promotes human trafficking and child abuse, or which is classified as confidential by law. One quite meaningful amendment, given that a large number of abuses by users of information society services for inhumane purposes are evident. We find it illogical for the government to reject such an amendment, which would absolutely contribute to regulation, in this sphere, in the responsibility of service providers. Given that the strategy, which I mentioned earlier, which is a much more challenging aspect of the transformation process, is the most difficult part of this organisational culture, i.e. the human factor and the change of system, beliefs and behaviour, then it should not be surprised that too much attention is being paid to technology, but in this part or completely ignored both social dynamics and other non-technical gaps that have been prevented between entities that should use this technology. The consequences will certainly be, what we have already agreed here, one disastrous implementation of such a law. When introducing systemic changes, and this should be one of the system's key laws, redesigning this business system, we should pay attention not only to hardware and software, but to the most important – the human component. Even when the right initiatives are launched, the speed of technological changes that could be made possible by the possible application of the e-commerce law will soon certainly exceed the speed of the necessary changes in the organisation, and in time this gap will be created between what technology can provide and what the organization can successfully support, taking into account the existing and required organisational culture, which is what I said – a human factor and change of the belief and behaviour system. I really call upon fellow Members to reconsider this amendment. I think he is certainly welcome for this bill and to regulate the area of responsibility of the service provider properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20148	The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20149	I agree with a colleague from the SRS that it is very important to keep in mind the words of this amendment, means to act in accordance with regulations and morality that do not allow the abuse of users of information services. Given the fact that there is a huge media blockade, a large number of people in Serbia, the younger ones, the medium-aged ones, who have become a technological surplus, are in some later years, turning to electronic visions of communication, especially the Internet, through which it is advertised, and advertised and provide various information about personalities and activities, which and how they can be abused. I have already said in principle in this debate that the law is a little too narrow and that it was necessary to pass the e-business law, because this is not just about trade, since there are other forms of information and communication technologies in the area of business. Certainly, the concept of business is significantly broader and more comprehensive than the concept of trade. Let's say, these days, we are witnessing abuse of users of information services. It was launched online, and I'm following it on Facebook, the entire media campaign against the episcopal of Rasko-Prizren Artemis because of footage of alleged beatings in the Black River monastery. The whole problem is that one mounted material dating back to 2003, which was removed from the Ju tab but was also downloaded when the material was made. To make the matter worse, it means that it is an abuse that is seen in that it is not about the videos taken in the Black River monastery itself, but in the vicinity, in the town of Ribaric, where there is this Orthodox-mission and spiritual-rehabilitation centre of the Black River. What happened? Based on one of the videos that is as it is, which has responded to someone because the bishop of Artemis became somewhat unacceptable the moment he did not give permission and blessing for visiting Joseph Biden to the High Decians, the entire campaign against him and at the end of the campaign that undermines the basics of the SPC, and abuses all those people who are practically in a position of impotence and who address this rehabilitation centre because many competent state institutions and do not want to deal with the problems of addiction. We had the opportunity to see these videos and see how the good will and activities of the protoire of Branislav Peranovic were abused, leading to certain consequences, in the sense that the Citizens' Protector also appeared, that the competent health minister Tomica Milosavljevic also appeared. The only question is, what was actually going on in 2003? If we had a more normal e-business law and we had adopted such an amendment, which would allow us not to abuse the content that is in electronic form and that comes to a very large number of people, precisely because of the media blockade, we wouldn't now be in a situation where we have a rather tragic campaign, which not only undermines the foundations of churches, but goes over the back of all those people addicts, their families in the position of impotence. The video left behind to state what kind of programme is the Orthodox-missionary and spiritual-rehabilitation centre of the Black River, run by the prototoire Branislav Peranovic, which is an independent organisation and a continent, independent of the monastery, and registered with the competent state authorities. On the basis of the fact that this was presented to us in electronic form, it is the impression that Father Branislav had something on his own, with the blessing of Artemia, picked up some people and the force of abuse. It is forgotten that there is a fully clear programme of drug rehabilitation, which implies all developed items from the very reception of groups and individuals, through interviews, to the selection of accommodations, so that everyone who comes to the centre has to have a conversation. A self-addictor, family members or escorts are admitted to the conversation, and based on that conversation, it is decided to accept or reject patients. Refusals are very rare and only occur in cases where it is estimated that the appointment and stay of the patient would be completely in vain, as well as in cases where they could be harmful to other patients. Based on this video, no one has asked one question that's very logical, which is, is it really about punishing someone who's countered drugs in this rehabilitation center to those protégés who've already been halfway to recover from it? No one asked the question, what is actually happening in the families of addicts and how physical and psychological abuse suffers, say, their parents and families? No one asked what happens when an addict here, in his midst, an official institution, manages to absorb, and then, of course, through some channels, his former drug group, again tries to drag him into the whole process and, in fact, disable his recovery. We don't know if it's about punishing people who committed such a crime? What we do know, at this center, the process of therapy is very complex. It is difficult to explain in the end, in short, because it implies complete work with the personality of patients, meaning, precise establishment of the condition of his personality, character traits, system of values, spiritual identity, relationship to God, to others, to himself. The idea is that addicts see the senselessness and harmfulness of an earlier way of life. What does all this mean now? It involves cataclysm, confession and fasting, regular worship, and obedience. So, permanent on himself, from all aspects, from physical, spiritual and mental. Of course working with different people involves an individual approach, but also joint activities. There's something called a new socialization, which should be, first of all, a liturgic character. Bringing the whole program into the center of images of abuse is nothing more than really pure abuse, since this is about extremely inaggressive methods and the idea of spiritual, mental and physical renewal of the system of values of the man who came into the position of being an addict. Of course, some final stage in the center involves just observing, more intense thinking about everything seen and learned, meaning, sort of, as Christian terminology puts it, watching over itself, more often convening, going to church, more frequent conversations with the centre manager, more intense contacts with the whole family, more frequent contacts and patients and families with the church and preparing to return home. A phase of extended contact with the centre also implies that, after the end of the programme and the end of the therapy, people actually become truly Orthodox and that, in practice, they regularly continue to take that way of life that they led in this rehabilitation centre of water and in the environments from which they came. They have the opportunity to contact the warden, write to him, to report to him in situations they see as critical again. There's a patrol service. So, since 2009, this Orthodox-mission, spiritual-rehabilitation centre "Black River" has practically expanded its activity in re-socialization since the 2009 meeting by setting up a patronage service. Again, the goals of this service are to raise the quality of the resociation of the protégé, of course, much greater prevention work, to encourage the protégés to continue active work on themselves, because they get support in finding adequate work. There is even parental education, and in the case of relapses, means, repeated use of psychoactive substances, early detection, again, the most important thing for re-establishment of abstinence. The activities of this center include walking tours, meeting, collecting plants, mushrooms, orientation in nature, means, physical activities of the type of fishing, swimming, boating. Of course, the competent and surrounding monasteries are the Sopocans, the Djurdjevi Stupovi, the Petrova Church, the Deep Stream, the Chokeshina, the Tronoša and Radovašnica. And, logically, there is also a very useful, spiritually useful and physically beneficial work in nature, of course, all depending on the capacity of the protégé. It is also very important to give this information to the public somewhere in real form and to make sure that the integrity of the persons who are in this video, who actually belong to our church, as some backbones, in fact, to the only uniting factor, at this moment, of the Serb people, is protected. There's also a press release today for the parents of the wards of this "Black River" camp. It is over 200 signatures that will be made available to the public and who resent this kind of electronic abuse of the 2003 footage, which they claim is also mounted. Even though this isn't a monastery territory, it's not common for people to wear short pants in places near the monastery. In that video, the one who allegedly beats is in shorts. Simply, he seriously doubtes that it would be possible in the bishop Artemia’s diocese for someone to approach the site and be surrounded by icons and use a shovel in short pants. It is about abuse and I think that this law, as well as the law that we have recently passed, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, is very important and relevant for this case and that, in fact, it should protect the possibility of free confession of faith and restore trust, means that it should carry out a kind of spiritual restoration of the Serbian people, instead of, through events like this, imputing that it is backward somewhere, that it is aggressive, that it is sadistic, that it resorts to some sort of kneeling method on corn, whips or I don't know what is long ago in pedagogy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20150	Before continuing the course of the session, I would like to inform the National Assembly that, on the basis of the consent of the President of Slavica Djukić-Dejanović and the Secretary-General, at the gallery of our plenary hall, between 12:30 and 12.40 hours, a group of young politicians from Banat and on your behalf and on my behalf I welcome them: Kolar Tinde, Grošin Damir, Josipovski Filip, Kalmak Filip, Natasa Lalic, Popović Vladimira, Petrovic Stanka, Cvetkovic Zoran, Hancik Roland, Milošević Marka, Marjanović Aleksandra, Todorović Nenada, Nikić Predraga, Vukotic Milk, Dragić Vladimir, Kuzmanov Miroslav, Matić Ivan, Pudar Vladimira, Radin Jelen, Šibun Lazar, Černja Andreu, Duško Savića Šičko Šilić, Idića Šilić, Šiljević, Ist. Welcome to the National Assembly. We're continuing our work on the agenda. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Đuric and Milos Radulovic jointly submitted the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20151	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I repeat that the DSS is completely indisputable that Serbia needs a law to regulate the area of electronic trade. But one area that needs at least four laws to regulate, and this is when we adopt another law, so, in addition to the e-signature law, we now have the e-commerce law, we really can't do it halfway. Without the law on the electronic document, we cannot seriously access this business at all, and in order for everything to be completely regular and completely legal, in accordance with the practice that exists in European countries, we need an electronic seal law. I'm afraid in this way, thousands of business people and thousands of young people, perhaps even some of the young politicians from Banat who would like to have "I Bay" and in Serbia, and thus communicate more easily with their colleagues and friends, to get textbooks, disks or something of interest to them, so that they can live like all the other citizens in the countries where this system works. In a way, I think we're misleading them, that all those people who engage in this procedure, according to the criminal provisions that this law provides, we're putting them in an uninvited position. We have amended Article 22 to provide for a reduction in fines, because believe me, when someone gets involved in this process and when it comes to the fact that they can't carry out the operation that he started and that he's being punished by a million dinars, I'm sure he won't think of going back into that kind of trade that's going to cost him a lot more. Let's regulate this area first.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20152	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Vesna Marić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20153	A colleague, Dejan Mirovic, submitted an amendment to Article 22(4), is about the work concerning criminal provisions, more specifically infringements. In his amendment, counterpart Mirovic predicted that the words "three to six months" were replaced by "one to three years". Therefore, in the case of particularly serious injuries or repeated injuries to the position of the 1st member, a ban can be imposed on the legal person for three to six months, as provided for by the law, and the amendment by counterpart Mirovic has been proposed to replace this with one to three years. We feel that in this way, given the amount of these penalties, it might be easier to enforce the law. In all of this, it should be borne in mind that the concept of electronic trade itself is, therefore, the concept of what we are talking about today, primarily multidisciplinary, and that it can affect the ways in which interactions and negotiations with clients take place, the ways in which payments are made, as well as relations with suppliers, and it is clear that for these reasons requires a fully regulated legal framework. The draft e-commerce law, which was held in the assembly debate, contains only 23 members, however, has shown one intolerance and misunderstanding for the attempt of opposition MPs, above all the SRS, that through the amendments, we do not ultimately have anything left to do with, in the name of the SRS parliamentary group, express our view that we will not support the law on electronic trade, because, as much as less or more bad as it is, it is clear that we will not experience its application in practice, and therefore we do not see any real reason to accept such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20154	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the review of the proposal for a law on electronic trade in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF POLAND AND RURAL DURATION (separation) This is the first law in the common principle search from 4th to 18th of the agenda. I remind the MPs that the decision to unify the time of the unification and the time available to the parliamentary groups for discussion in particular, therefore, the time of the parliamentary groups, and given the 1.260 and some amendments, the time we will use for discussion in particular is up to 10 hours. This applies only to the time given to each applicant for the amendments, therefore, that of two minutes plus the time of five hours for the parliamentary groups and 15 minutes for the presidents of the parliamentary groups or the authority of representatives of the parliamentary groups. Everyone has the right to schedule that time the way they think it suits them the most. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Ljubomir Kragović, Zoran Krasić, Zoran Masic, Milorad Krstin, Jorvanka Tabaković, Veroljub Arsic, Tomislav Ljubenović, Vesna Marić, Ljiljana Miladinović, Željko Brestavič, Dušan Marić, Momir Marković, Sladjan Mijaljević, Marko Milenković, Vladjan Mirović, Dejan Mirović, Goran Mihajlović, Ognjen Mihajlović, Bojan Mladenov, Paja Momčev, Mirko Munjić, Milan Nikolic, Gordana Pavnović-Milosavljević, Milutin Jelić, Dobrislav Popović, Marina Ragus, Ljubiša Petković, Dušanka Pljević, Vitomir Plužarić, Vitomir Pluljerević, Gordanović, Gordanović and Miljanović, Smović. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Ambassador Ljubomir Kragovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable citizens of Serbia and the esteemed farmers of Serbia, we have come to a debate in particular. As we've heard, about 1,260 amendments to a set of laws have been filed, where 15 agriculture laws are literally joined into one. We have a total of 10 hours left to talk, but the SRS parliamentary group has the 15 minutes left with the mandated representative and 68 minutes remain according to the amendments. Believe me, distinguished couples, peasants, individual agricultural producers, I will try to make as many amendments proposed by the SRS parliamentary group as I can to explain, some will or most of them may not succeed, but I will try to do so in quality, professional and practical terms, which is why most of the amendments have been submitted by the SRS. A colleague, Ljubomir Kragovic, submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on agriculture and rural development, in Article 1(2) to delete it. He just wanted to point out once again that we have an agency with each ministry. However, we now have administration next to the agency, and you're saying you need to reduce the number of employees. Then, on one of the amendments, I will address the percentage that the minister gave us on the Agriculture Committee, as much as his ministry has reduced it, but I will also say that from the other ministry, thanks to this agrarian payment administration, he has also filled out a number of his ministry. So I haven't seen a reduction in the number of employees. Another load, we'll have one more time, next to the Ministry of the Agency, and a new part of the administration, which will be introduced later through this law, that. Through these amendments, we're going to show that a good part of the job was taken, as you ministers said, by the Ministry of Finance, that's what the Treasury was doing. However, counterpart Kragovic, with his amendment, wanted to make it clear that there were plenty of additional burdens for the citizens, and for the peasants, for the pair, it would be put on their backs. This administration will not be one man, they will do their job, start by applying for registration of agricultural land, and then everything else they need and want, and a small part if they are disabled or not met, I mean, specifically, short- and long-term loans and those regulations that the Ministry proposes. I therefore propose to my fellow Members that they accept the amendment of counterpart Ljubomir Kragovic because another additional institution is being introduced in the agriculture ministry called the Agrarian Payments Authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20156	Do you want this time as an authorised representative or from a parliamentary group? As an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Arpad Fremond wants a word after the first amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20157	I would use, the Honorable Chairman, all the time as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me, on behalf of the SVM MPs, to take advantage of the opportunity and present our suggestions in the debate on the details of these laws that we have not yet discussed. In principle, we highlighted some of the laws that are most important for us, for our farmers, which are: the proposal for a law on agriculture and rural development, the proposal for a law on public storage for agricultural products and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, for which we have already highlighted suggestions. Allow me on behalf of the Minority Group to state our views, objections, to ask some questions about the other laws and to explain our amendments. First, I'd like to start with the bill on plant health. This law regulates the protection and improvement of plant health. We believe that it is good to pass a law that will in a unique way regulate the area of plant health, as well as a special law on plant protection and plant nutrition. This approach has already been adopted in EU countries. What we think is good is that this law provides both organisational and functional strengthening of the phytosanitary service. As regards the proposal for a law on plant-food and land-processing products, this law regulates the classification, quality, marking, phytosanitary control and sampling of transport, imports of plant-nutrient and land-mining products, in our opinion in a good way. We believe that the bill on plant protection means is important to us and relevant to us. The harmonisation of existing legislation in the field of plant protection products with the current EU directives has led to the need to pass a new law that will regulate this area as an independent. On the draft law on brandy and other alcoholic beverages, the proposal for a law on ethanol and a proposal for a wine law, I would like to stress that we support them. The most important thing is that every citizen can produce brandy and wine for his own purposes. This law regulates an area of great importance in Serbia's agriculture, which includes production, i.e. the registration of liquor producers and other alcoholic beverages, through quality, labelling and geographical origin, declarations, as well as traffic. This law imposes an obligation on anyone who wishes to engage in the production and transport of brandy and other alcoholic beverages that they must be entered in the register of brandy producers and other alcoholic beverages. The introduction of the register prevents illegal production and traffic, eliminates the production of counterfeits and allows monitoring of all roads, which is very important for us and we consider it good. I will continue to talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the reproductive material of the forest trees. In the process of harmonising national legislation with EU rules, the Law on reproductive material of forest trees entered into force at the end of 2004 was adopted. The law was mostly done on the basis of a European Community manual on the transport of forest reproductive material. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on reproductive material of forest trees, provisions on rules and full implementation of European Union rules in the area of production and transport of forest reproductive material have been added. I'd like to continue with the proposal for a law on animal welfare. This law regulates animal welfare, animal treatment and the protection of animals against abuse. This law particularly underlines the responsibility, obligations and responsibilities of the owner, i.e. the holder of animals in order to protect the welfare of animals, thereby seeking to prevent cruelty, as well as inadequate treatment of animals. Next is the cattle law. We have more objections here. As regards this law, I am interested in whether the Ministry of Agriculture held meetings with veterinary chambers, what co-operation is between the Ministry of Agriculture and veterinary chambers, whether veterinarians have referred some objections to this law and we are particularly interested in the role of our veterinary technicians and veterinarians in the law. Our remarks are that when the bill is drawn up, there is no accounting for our specific situation of livestock production, that 80-90% of total national production is provided by small producers and natural persons. There is no definition of production entities, the level of primary production. Here we propose that they be associations of breeders, registered interest community of breeders by species of livestock, as a legal person, farms of industrial production, as a legal person, and integrals and organisers of primary production, as a legal person. The breeder association should be the main subject, covering the vital mass of small producers at the level of primary production. Otherwise, 80% of the producers will not be participating from the budget funds allocated to the development of livestock. It also lacks the definition of the production structure, i.e. the manufacturer. Our proposal is to make it industrial production, small goods production, natural production and bioproduction. The definition of these terms is important, not only in the concept of general agrarian policy, but also in the harmonisation of legal regulations, such as the Law on the Protection of Domestic Animals. I have a vague definition of a few more concepts, such as a breeding organization. In the bill, however, there is one type of selection, but in the EU it is one vertical integration structure of producers in order to select, grow and transport cattle. Selection today is control and quality assurance. The reproduction as a zootechnical measure should be defined by segments, by our – natural mating, artificial insemination within the breeding organization, artificial insemination within the industrial farm and, as a fourth, commercial centres for production and transport of seeds. Our general opinion is that the bill tends to be in favour of industrial livestock production, the central position in the distribution of budgets has been occupied by scientific institutions and universities. The aim of the law should be to preserve the identity and tradition of our livestock industry, and to enable small producers to improve their economic status through association and to continue to bear over 50% of national livestock production. What we want to point out is that beekeeping belongs to this law. We're interested in what the Department of Agriculture's plan is. The MPs of the Duke Hungarian Union think it might be a good idea for beekeeping to get a special law. We ask you to contact the beekeepers' associations on this matter and think that way. As far as the proposal for a food safety law is concerned, a lot of amendments have arrived for this law. It is extremely important because it regulates general conditions for the safety, hygiene and quality of food and food for animals. The importance of passing food safety laws is primarily in protecting people's lives and health. In our opinion, it is the basic right for consumers to buy and consume food does not endanger its health. We have submitted amendments to the article. 11th, 12th and 48th of this law. It is very important for us that the province has its responsibilities under all the laws in the area of agriculture. Our remarks in Article 11 refer to the section on the responsibilities of the "ministration", we suggest adding "the competent regional authority". Within the framework of the delegated powers of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, it is necessary on its territory to monitor the application of this law through its inspection, in our opinion. In Article 12 of the State Authority's work, within the meaning of this law, in the area of food safety, a phytosanitary inspection, a veterinary inspection is carried out, and we ask that agricultural inspection be carried out, i.e. a food technology engineer, because the role and role of food engineering inspectors is extremely important in all stages of food production and transport, because they are the most competent personnel. I also submitted the amendment to Article 48(2), where after the word "its" are added the words "adequate professional training". The reference in Article 48 refers to the professionality of a person who will be responsible for the change of good manufacturing and hygiene practices in the application of the HCCP, as it is very important to be the face of the food profession, as in practice, the names of existing workers who are incompetent to perform these tasks are rarely named. As far as the proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms is concerned, new elements are introduced in our legislative framework when it comes to genetically modified organisms, i.e. – mandatory labelling, public knowledge, liability for damage, testing and cost of testing, payment of republican administrative fees. Also, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32(1), where after the words "destroy" are added to the words "with the presence of an authorised phytosanitary inspector". We believe that the creator, user and their authorised representative is obliged to destroy the waste contained in GMOs, as well as the waste generated by the use of GMOs with the presence of an authorised phytosanitary inspector, so that GMOs are no longer able to reproduce and transfer genetic material to other organisms. Otherwise, an amendment to this article has been submitted to the Committee and I believe that this will be resolved. As far as agricultural land law is concerned, the law is also very important for MEPs from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, especially because we support small agricultural producers most in Serbia. We believe they require the greatest help. However, we have a few suggestions regarding this law. We've made amendments to the article. 21, 22, 26 and 27 of this law. We believe that agricultural land in state property can be given for use, with legal and physical fees for non-agricultural production, only for oil wells and windmills - and this law is not defined. It is important for us to rent ponds and vineyards for less than 40 years. We also believe that the average price of leases in the territory of the unit of local self-government can be reduced rather than just increased, as is the case in one member. In the end, I would like to say that I believe that the payment report has been made since the lease on state property agricultural land is due until February 28th of the current year. These are our amendments to this law. Just in the end, I still want to point out and say one more time, as we have said before, that MPs and the Parliamentary Group of Minorities will support this set of laws, whether you support our amendments or not. However, I ask you to accept them and explain them. We are also pleased to have a set of agriculture laws after a long period of time, and we hope that these laws will only facilitate the position of our farmers and speed up Serbia's EU approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20158	The word is made by MP Slobodan Maras, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20159	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, I will, above all, begin by quoting what Mr. Minister told me last time after my remarks that the commitments to agricultural producers should be reconciled. Mr Dragin put it this way - as far as reconciliation is concerned, it's simply a good European practice, to settle obligations first, and then to ask the state. One great statesman said that people should not ask what the country can do for them but what they can do for the country. That's what Mr. Dragin told me last time, but what's happened in the past week has been worrying about expressing a large number of agricultural producers, and especially agricultural producers who are retired. We have two regulations that regulate one area this year, which came out of Official Messenger number 12 and number 17 from 2009. So, there's a campaign going on, gentlemen, to win over the new PIO fund insurance companies. It has been said that only farmers who pay the PIO contribution will have the right to regress for - mineral fertilisers, seeds and diesel fuel from 12,000 dinars, of course, and pension beneficiaries achieved on the basis of agricultural activity. That, then, stands in these two regulations, which are in "the official messenger" numbers 12 and 17. However, the 2009 "Official Messenger" regulation, signed by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, of 14 May, which takes place eight days after the publication of the "Official Messenger", Article 1 states: "The holder of registered agricultural land ownership, the user of the pension achieved on the basis of agricultural activity, other than the disabled pension paid by agricultural activity, has the right to regress the re-proportionals of 30% of the amount foreseen for mineral fertilisers, i.e. the declared seed, i.e. diesel fuel, euro diesel, or bio diesel. "What am I talking to you about? So, I got from several agricultural producers, I can read your home number, it was born in 1941, which were in accordance with the Law and the Regulation that were in force until you brought in the one that was retroactive, who submitted their demands to the Treasury. Here's a man with 28 acres, nearly 29, handing over fiscal scraps for the fertilizer 216 thousand, for the Euro diesel 86,000 and for the declared seed of 115 thousand, totaling 420 thousand. He was supposed to get 12,000 dinars per hectare, a pensioner, and the government made a decision not to win as planned, but to have a regulation that came into force the other day added 30% of these envisioned. Among other things, I have to ask the gentleman from the PUPS if you voted in favour of this? What do you say now to farmers, or pensioners, who were paying PIO, or campaigning to pay? Now how are you going to explain to a man that at these 420 grand for 29 acres, as far as there is, he's not going to get times 12,000 but 30% of that. Or did agricultural producers perhaps, or those who retired, not understand this well? It's completely unclear how you could predict that one regulation was retroactively working. I need to read what it says in the memo that's being sent to the vault. He says this: "The government of the Republic of Serbia adopts a provision on amendments and additions to the Regulation on terms and conditions and means of using the means to regress repromations for war and vegetable production for 2009, "The Official Messenger", number 36/2009". It says - on the changes made, and according to the interpretation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, received on 19.05 by the team and team, the registered agricultural landowner, the user of the pension, has the right to regress the repromaterials of 30% of the amount foreseen for mineral manure, i.e. declared seed, i.e. diesel fuel, i.e. euro diesel, or biodiesel. The next position says - all requests for a regress of re-compromitrals which have been filed until the moment of entry into force of the new regulation - will be resolved under the new regulation, which means that the treatment will be the same for all applicants. The budget rebalance can be understood, so it fits into something like that. But what's the other thing that worries me? In that same regulation, you showed how powerless and weak you are to any kind of pressure. What kind of relationship did you have with those smokers who protested at the government, so how do you treat them? Registered agricultural holdings for registered tobacco areas in 2009, in addition to the assets referred to in Article 1, have the right to fund 20,000 dinars per hectare? So whoever blocks Nemina, we're going to respect him, and the pensioners who have been paying for decades PIO, who have handed over everything in accordance with the law and the regulations in force, we're going to bring a regulation that will retroactively work and we're going to make an incredible financial blow to them. I'm asking you again from PUPS, did you back this up at the government? How are you going to explain that to the pensioners? The minister will explain. I can't wait to hear the explanation, but I'd like to hear it from you. I know that you are in the Committee on Agriculture and as a colleague I ask – did you support it at the government? What do you say to the pensioners, the farmers who paid PIO, who were promised 12 grand per hectare, if they show every document necessary? People showed up and then they got a surprise, a slap, that they wouldn't get 12 grand but 30% of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20160	The word has a minister. Please register in the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20161	It's probably the basic rule when you go into the discussion to prepare for that discussion and probably prepare yourself. Then they would know that those who are farmers, they had no obligation this year to the PIO pension, they're already pensioners, so they don't have to pay for it. On the other hand, I can say that from one experience and in conversation with some fellow Members of Parliament, position and opposition, who spoke to farmers on the ground, and what we saw, which is that at one point in time, the pension owners started to build up land, i.e. to make fictitious contracts for pensioners. What is also very important is that these people receive pensions. What is, in the end, very important to mention is that the deal we already had with tobacco producers was before they protested, and you know what the protests were about. We didn't want to accept, since the agreements between the tobacco manufacturer and the ministry were accepted, that we should go back to changing that deal. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20162	The word is from MP Zoran Nikolic, the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group. The People's MP, Free Maras, is asking for the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20163	Mr. Minister, I accept that perhaps I wasn't clear, I'm not saying that you didn't understand or listen to me very well. Of course I know those who retire don't pay PIO. I told you this year that you were campaigning among the agricultural producers to pay the PIO. I didn't say these people were paying, but what's the matter, Mr. Minister? You keep going with this thesis that someone abuses existing laws, and you keep going with the thesis that we can lift subsidies because farmers, or pensioners, have given their country, they have created fictitious contracts, etc. I think there are much easier ways or, in accordance with the law, better ways to regulate such things. It would be perfectly logical for me if you could prove to me that this man who's retired and who for 29 acres has handed over all the fiscal accounts and everything that is necessary under the regulation and the laws, that he's made some fictitious deal with someone and he's actually trying to make money in the state. I'm afraid that's rarely happened, and you know it's hard for a farmer or a farmer to make a living in a country. It used to happen the other way around. Once again, I underline to you, last time we were able to accept your theory, or your opinion, of your engagement not to allow abuses when it comes to subsidies, but do you really think that in this way, through a regulation that will act retroactively, you know how many pensions are to agricultural producers, these are the most miserable pensions that exist in this country, you will not punish those who do business, who cannot live on that pension and who have counted on the subsidies they have been promised, or on the regress. I just think the way you did this is the way we can't keep running ourselves, that it's better to punish everything, just so we don't get past someone who's gonna abuse the existing laws. I think in this way you have sinned against a large number of people who are retired, who are still engaged in agricultural production, who are respecting the laws of this country...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20164	Three minutes. Replication time has been used. The word has a minister, Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20165	I didn't want to go deeper into the analysis, but in addition to the fact that the pensioner, the agrarian pensioner, has the right to 30% of these 12,000 dinars that are given, he per every hectare that gives someone else the hectare in the arena, gets 5,000 dinars per hectare, and if he gives someone under 40, there's another 5,000. If you add that up, you'll see it's even a little bit more than 12,000. What's also very important is that land allocation starts from the old farmers to the younger ones, and that's what's done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20166	The word was requested by MP Zoran Nikolic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20167	First of all, on the trail of what my colleague Maraš said, we were all witnesses that one of the biggest pre-election promises made by DS as the bearer of the current assembly majority and authorities, but also by other parties, that when you come to power, agriculture will flourish and that subsidies to agricultural producers will be more than enough incentive to strengthen agricultural production, and now we are faced with a regulation where actually agricultural pensioners are denied the right to 12,000 dinars per hectare. I ask the question, what if it were said in the campaign? Would agricultural producers then, and we all know that the age structure in our village is very unfavourable, would our agricultural pensioners then, and those who regularly made payments to the PIO Fund, would they vote in favour of the DS and parties of the ruling coalition? I don't think so, and I don't think that this regulation that comes on May 15th is a knife in the back of many agricultural producers, and I don't think I'm talking about retroactivity that's extremely controversial, and I don't think it can absolutely stand that the regulation that's been passed on May 15th refers to an agricultural pensioner who, for example, submitted an orderly documentation and expected funds on May 1st. From this place I call on the agricultural pensioners who handed over before May 15th to sue the state, to sue the Ministry and to sue the government, because the government is acting as an ossion and using its authority to try to confiscate back the funds he was counting on and on which he had rights, which he was promised and according to positive regulations, at the time when he handed over that documentation, he had the right to do so. So, I don't know what's going on in the government, if there's a party that protects the interests of pensioners, or even agricultural pensioners, if that's that narrow segment of your operation, then you shouldn't have been allowed to go through a regulation like this in the government. It is very important that we know whether the PUPS voted in favour of this regulation, whether it was abstention or whether it voiced in the Government against this regulation. I don't think he's raised his voice, but it's not too late, we have this assembly debate now, there's plenty of time ahead of you. In you I see allies in this business, that in some way such a regulation is prevented. This is a very bad signal to those farmers who are expected to be paid into the PIO fund. As far as I know, all the regresses, all subsidies will be tied to the reconciliation of the PIO fund, so if the state treats those who properly reconciled their obligations, and in the country the great situation is not, we all know, then it's a clear signal that we simply push many agricultural producers into the gray economy, not to settle their obligations, therefore they won't be able to use funds from the state. What happened with this regulation, which will have a practical real impact on many agricultural producers, is actually the best indicator of what is happening in the country. Today we are discussing 15 agricultural laws, for which we have about 10 hours of all time, 1,200 amendments. Most likely today and tomorrow, when we discuss this, we won't be able to discuss the agricultural land law, we won't be able to talk about the livestock law, because it's simply the diabolical Rules of Procedure adopted by the assembly majority, which he's proud of, which is that the MPs won't be able to discuss amendments under such important laws, and I suppose we absolutely don't argue that the agricultural land law is important, but before that, we need to do 1,000 amendments to come to this at all. It's a matter of speed and quality now. You want to go quickly to Europe, and for that now DS is the most responsible, which has adopted such a restrictive Rules of Procedure, where the right of MPs is effectively narrowed down and the right of MPs to talk about relevant laws. No one argues that these laws are important and that they will have positive consequences for agriculture at all, but from European laws to the fact that there is one huge space that is not in line and that actually points out that these laws and this story about the approximation of our legislation in the area of EU agriculture do not have real consequences for peasants, for agricultural producers, because here they are now being punished by this regulation, a large number. The question is, given the amount of budget it has, which has an agrarian budget massacred, so it's slightly higher than 2% of the total budget, it's natural – there's no money, so it has to be fucked, it has to be cut wherever it can be. This is now the first moment where they fuck and the funds are taken away from those agricultural producers who have the right to the funds. Who knows what will happen in June, July or September, when we have one new rebalancing, when the money is even less. Minister, know that in opposition MPs and those who care about agriculture, you have associates not to allow any more money to be taken from this agrarian budget. There are possibilities where they can be taken on another side, but you can't take any more money from the agrarian budget. So, the retroactiveness of this regulation, it itself is controversial and impactes where teens are, in agricultural production, but the retroactivity that was given as an explanation is absolutely inadmissible. I call, among other things, on this example that my colleague Marash cited, that agricultural producer, and all the others who handed over before the regulation to sue the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20168	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20169	I would like to thank you for your support for increasing the agrarian budget. I guess your exposure is about something you knew before I gave an explanation for the amendment to this regulation, so I'd like to do it again. Every farmer retired didn't have to pay his pension this year because he's already retired. That's one. Two, it's very important to mention that everyone who's retired and the country in the arena gets 5,000 dinars because they put the country in the arena. In addition, it can get another 5,000 dinars if it's given to a person under 40 years of age. Plus she's getting those funds from the arena. We built it here so it has the right to subsidize 30% of the funds. If you add that up, you'll see that it can happen by a hectare even more than some other farmers. I hope I explained that correctly now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20170	The word is made by MP Siniša Stamenkovic, the right to reply to the presentation of MP Slobodan Maraš, and by MP Zoran Nikolic, the right to replication. Please register and also remind you to press the key once. That's enough to keep you in the system. The electronic unit is shutting down from the panel, you don't rule it out, MPs, so I'm asking you to just press it once. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20171	It is indisputable to discuss today one of the most important sets, or a set of laws from agriculture that has been so long unreachable, and that this is an attempt to consider and adopt after three and a half years more of these laws today. I'm not saying that today, in this debate, there is no need to discuss sublaws in particular. If someone has assessed that it is necessary today to discuss a sublegal act why not, just make it a contribution to better and proper solutions and to the right laws in such an important branch as agrarian. What I have to say is when it comes to the mention of pensioners, that is, the relationships that have PUPS to this matter, he's clear. It is one issue of pensions from agriculture or pensions from farmers who have acquired the pension by agrarian or agricultural activities. I don't think there's a dispute here, and if there's a PIO law, we'll certainly have a lot to tell each other about the pension that's being formed for this category of our residents. Therefore, there is no need to mix questions from the legal basis for obtaining a pension with a legal basis for obtaining one of the benefits our government has adopted as a regulation in order to help agricultural producers in these times, within a short time, to overcome these problems and organise agriculture because they are still able to work and can bear all the burden of this agriculture. The measures taken at that time amounted to up to 3.5 billion dinars, which must have been a great and heavy burden on all agrarian factors, regardless of the category of those who worked in agriculture, whether they were a commercial household, whether they were non-commercial or farmers over 65 years old. On the issues of who stood up for what attitudes in the government, they are public, they are published and you can inform yourself there. I wouldn't talk about it, it's a matter of a sublegal act that's been published, which is what attitudes are and what they're meant to be. It's a well-known legal basis, it's clear. This measure lasted as long as we could stand it as government and as budget. The moment she was no longer able to stand in this amount, other amounts were proposed, which are also good benefits for that part of our agricultural producers so that they can withstand these, I would say, very harsh conditions for agricultural production.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20172	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic, right to replication, and after that, MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20173	Why do we have a problem with this system? Among other things, because he's got a quick one too, so it doesn't work in this room all great and we all know it. I always press once, what happens I have no idea, but it is impossible for a large number of MPs to have a problem with this miracle that was obtained in 2001, so with additional large funds it was fixed to come to some function. I have the impression that this was obtained in the right way in 2001 so that we could also have the funds to pay off the full amount of agricultural pensioners. I understand that the only thing you can answer and that sounds logical is exactly what you said, but it doesn't stand. I said it was a bad signal. Let's see if it's a bad signal to those who have to pay PIO, which as a Ministry and as a Government, you expect it to happen that even farmers could get subsidies in the next period. Someone who is 41 years old, as we have here, is very common in our village, unfortunately, the case of the man of the agricultural producer who takes care of his land, taking care of his family. It's a man who's close to 70 years old but who processes the country, and he'll do it as long as he has physical strength. He doesn't want to rent the land, and yet he would have to find someone under 40 to get an extra 5,000 dinars. It pushes some people to do it, so they can fictitiously find someone under the age of 40 to withdraw funds. There are still proud couples or agricultural producers who, as long as they have their own strength, want to process their own country and want to live off what they produce on that country. This is a very harsh punishment and that retroactiveness will absolutely not be able to stand. I think there will be plenty of time, and people who have come under the influence of this regulation in time will explain the measures they need to take. The answer, unfortunately, Mr. Stamenkovic, who we got from you, whether the government was public, I don't know, I wasn't on the government site, so I watched who voted for what regulation. Mr. Marash and I both asked you for a PUPS position on this issue. You should as a representative of the PUPS and as vice-president of the Agriculture Committee to know whether or not you raised your hand for it, or whether your party president raised his hand for it. If he's up, let him say why. There is a possibility that you disagree with your party president.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20174	Three minutes. Replication time used. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20175	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, the 2009 National Animal Health Programme has not yet begun. It's the end of May. Prevention of vaccination and diagnostics of infectious diseases – so far in this year no single dinar has been paid to veterinary cells for the job done. The budget rebalancing did not provide the necessary means to prevent animals from being protected. As of 1 June, no assurances, certificates and passports can be issued, since no protection has been carried out. Due to outstanding debt, 17 of the 22 veterinary stations in Belgrade will be in a blockade because they cannot meet their obligations to the state either, in terms of taxes and contributions, or obligations to suppliers – medicines, seeds, consumer material, vaccines, etc. These are the data I received from Dr. Živorad Kostic, who is president of the Belgrade branch of the Veterinary Chamber, of course, and member of the DHSS, but that doesn't matter. On all invoices delivered to the Ministry, veterinary stations have paid VAT, and they haven't been paid anything, I repeat, since New Year's Eve. On June 1st, it becomes an obligation for the cells to introduce fiscal cash registers. If it wasn't tragic, it would be funny, it's so tragic. Every vet on the field will carry a cash register. So many vets, so many cash registers. If only we could pay them something. Every owner will be able to see in the bill that the cure was given to him, and then he'll start doing his own veterinary work and then the damage will be much greater. As of June 1st, Mr. Minister, 70% of the veterinary cells in the blockade, it's tragic, 70% are in a blockade, announcing an end of work. Please, if you can hear me, Mr. Secretary. Do you know, that's what I was talking about when budget rebalance was on the agenda, how much money was needed to prevent animals? Two billion and 640 million. You didn't fight for those funds. How do you plan to solve this problem, and it's better to solve it painlessly, now I'm going to illustrate it, than to build 30 km of road, to build 300 fulls, these famous Dinkics, to God's house, not to build a ski resort, not to buy a pair of planes, not to build one bridge or 50 residential buildings. This is more valuable and more important. Why?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20176	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20177	What's important is that when we took over the administration's debt to the veterinary station, it was somewhere, like, nine months' pay. It was so retroactively paid. During this year, together with the veterinary chamber, we agreed on a payout dynamic. We failed, with extreme efforts, to pay another 500 million before the rebalancing process and to get out of 2008, in fact, to enter 2009. The program's been set up. We have allotted 400 million additional funding for veterinary cells on budget rebalancing and according to the quotas that have been determined they will be paid. What's important is that you're absolutely right about prevention, or that prevention is far more important and, believe me, that I'm doing everything in my power to do as much as possible to actually get to the point of paying the month by month, which would be about the most important thing to do. Just, as you know, from some minus of last year that amounted to over 12.5 billion, and a billion in the veterinary field, that means 13.5 billion, this year we've transferred one piece and we're really trying, that within the means that we have, and I'm not saying that we have enough, let's settle it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20178	National MP Vladan Batic requests a replica, please register with the system. So, I ask the MPs that when they complete their presentation, they do not turn on the system again, because it reregisters you. I had remarks from the MPs that it was an electronic unit. The electronic panel that is operated and the field of vision is clearly visible when you finish the speech you press the key in front of you again. Please don't do this. That puts you again as, by request of word, into the system electronically on the panel. So, the MP unit only once, and then you talk. For everything else, when you get the word, you worry about the panel. National MP Vladan Batic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20179	Mr. Minister, you're as kind as ever, but you haven't answered any of my questions. Since January 1st, and now it's the end of May, no single dinar has been paid to veterinary stations. No money. They're not worth any mihausin stories now. Nine months before the payoff started this year. Nothing's been paid. Secondly, even more important than that, and all connected, how are you going to provide two billion and 650 million for preventive animal protection? Come on, Mr. Minister, let's publicly say that Chachak, the King and the Krushevac are infected with rage, that there was an epidemic of rage. How are you gonna find the money? We survived in the past three major epidemics or contagion. There was a brucellosis on the head, when 3,000 sheep were killed, because people got infected. Snotlout and paws in Kosovo, a plague of livestock, when 500,000 pieces of livestock were killed, so all budget funds were spent on it. I ask the answer to this question: how will you and when will you provide the funds, how will you and when will you pay back your debts to the veterinary cells? When there was an outbreak of livestock and 500,000 pieces of livestock had to be killed, it was expensive, and it almost emptied the budget. It took us two years to recover after that. The European Community then banned us from exporting, never after having had that number of cattle, or these cattle throats, which had to be liquidated due to the infection. It's a bad example in the world not to think about livestock, not to think about agriculture. I'd like to ask you, if you can say, when the money is serious, but they have to be provided? Well, two billion were paid by the previous government to military reserves from Kursumlia and southern Serbia. Two billion. Because they've charged their love for the country. There is a great fear of catastrophic consequences, so I... (President: Three minutes, MP, the right to replica has been used) on this I insist. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20180	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20181	Just for your information, 400 million dinars were paid to veterinary stations on April 1st. That's the first piece of information. Other information, for 18 months, there was no swine fever, and since 1996, there has been no foot and foot foot, so whoever was preparing your material should be better prepared next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20182	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Krasic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Agriculture and the Government did not accept the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Please register in the system so I can give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as Mr Kragovic, so Zoran Krasic also submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on agriculture and rural development, where he says the third position should be deleted. It is about the position that says: 'The way of education, structure, or organisation of the Agency for Agricultural Payments is governed by the act of the Minister responsible for Agriculture Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the Minister). )'' SRS, i.e. The parliamentary group is against any additional agencies, administrations by ministries. We have been hit by a severe economic crisis, but you, ministers, said you took from the finance minister, the Treasury Administration and the people who are going to be working in this administration now, but you just cut it down there and increased it for you. Minister Dinkic has 713 employees, so I haven't heard that he will reduce any, because he is incomparable over all. It's about agriculture and rural development, the twilight of agrarians, who's trying to tear themselves apart now. We have 4,800 to 5,000 villages. By some estimates, no one can judge that correctly, because, Malten, from day to day, we are being extinguished by villages. The problem with assessing the exact number of villages in Serbia is that every year hundreds of villages literally disappear. If the dying trend of the rural population continues, it is estimated that in the next 10 years, up to 1,000 villages will disappear completely. These are your quotes, Minister. Your quote. But now I have to give you another quote, unfortunately, journalistic and who has been checked, says – the village of Gabrić near Sudotica, I mean the village of Gabrić that is disappearing. He says, in the mid-70s, there were more than 400 households in Gabric. Let's take the average of three members, if they lived, there'd be more. That's 1,200. Today, only 300 souls live here. A year ago, a single store was closed. The villagers often have no water or electricity. The buses don't even drive to the village anymore. Unfortunately, it's a village in Vojvodina. Where is the Regional Agricultural Development Fund now, so Mr. Pajtic? I have to read two more or three sentences – and as we visit empty houses in Gabrić and railway, which is barely visible from the weeds, the silence of the village pressure. No glamour, no pigeon, no raven, no dog lion. And then, the establishment of the locals, it says -- and this is that developed Vojvodina they're talking about. That's the problem, Ministers of Agriculture and Rural Development. That's the problem with the couples and peasants. Our villages are dying. We can pass a thousand laws that will say something textual about improving the agrarians and that pair and peasants, if nothing is done by Pajtic of the DS. They are drilling as they work much more for peasants, for couples, for registered agricultural holdings, for agricultural producers, and Velimir Ilic stands here on several occasions, in fact in the Assembly, as Pajtic used threem euros from the Agricultural Development Fund. No one has launched or asked one of the competent institutions if that's true. One of them has to answer. That way we can no longer run agrarian politics. I would ask the MPs to support this amendment by Mr Krasic, and as far as I'm concerned, the SRS parliamentary group has proposed someone over 900 amendments. As an authorised representative, I will not have a chance to explain these 900 all, and colleagues who are here, because there are limited ten hours, but we will try those most important laws that affect, specifically affect the development of the village, have a specific impact on agrarian, have a specific impact on those who deal with and warring, and vegetables, livestock and vineyarding, fruit growing, raspberries, blackberries, blackberries, etc. I'm talking about a peasant in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20184	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20185	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Ministers and Associates at the Ministry of Agriculture, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to point out again at the beginning of this debate that we have conducted on such important laws, both in principle and now, of the initial debate following amendments to this number of laws. We have already lost almost an hour of debate over one law, and we have only come to a second member of this first law set of 15 laws, and it is realistic that certain laws and amendments to a certain number of laws will simply not be touched, nor will they be mentioned, and I do not know what fate these amendments will have, and which are accepted by the proposings or by the Committee, will not, at the very least, our agricultural producers will not be able to hear what has been accepted, and what has been rejected. I don't think that it should ever again be about such significant laws as agriculture, but also about many other laws that such a number of laws are governed by a principle debate because it is extremely, extremely meaningless, neither can amendments be properly explained nor can it be seen essentially what the amendments wanted to change. I have submitted to Article 2, point 2) of the amendment in order to better and more clearly define what agricultural production is. It is defined by the proposal for a law so that it is a process of producing plant and livestock products, growing fish, or other forms of agricultural production (flake growing, snails, greenhouses, plastic production, cultivation of spice and medicinal plants, etc.), which is carried out on agricultural land, as well as on other land or construction site located on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. My amendment refers to the addition of the word "bee" behind the word "fish", because I believe that beekeeping production is one of the significant agricultural productions, that a relatively large number of our citizens deal with this production, that it is a production that is partially exported and that it is not more clear here to define that fish and bees are both clearly grown and grown. Proposer, i.e. Government, in an explanation of rejection, i.e. the non-acceptation of this amendment states that agricultural production is a process of production of plant and livestock products, i.e. other forms of agricultural production, which includes bee breeding. If I am clear, I have clearly underlined what is defined in the bill as other forms of agricultural production, and I will repeat, growing mushrooms, snails, greenhouses, plastic production, cultivation of spices and medicinal plants, etc. So, this and secondly, it could be the beekeeping and the bee-growing. I think it was a lot of ground to have the bill promoter accept this supplement and accept, ultimately, this amendment. I regret to say that there was no understanding, and I think that the amendment has far exceeded, that it belongs here and that it essentially corrects this definition of agricultural production. I'd like so much about the amendment. If you'll excuse me, I'll use what time I have as an authorised representative. I would like to refer to what Mr Batic said about the state of the veterinary service. The truth is that it is extremely difficult and well supported by what has been said. I think that the Ministry should really make a significant effort in the coming period to go first and foremost into the implementation of the animal health care programme because it already stands out in May, the programme began much earlier, simply, the implementation of the programme is important for a number of reasons. Normally, efforts should also be made to pay off all debts to veterinary entities, as most of the cells are now privatised, and in these cells veterinarians implement the programme of measures and spend their own funds under the realisation and should, as a compensation, receive part of those funds allocated to the budget, means money for the implementation of the measure programme. What I want to deny, and what's said here, first of all from the aspect of public harassment, that in the territory of several municipalities, I think three municipalities are said, the government's epidemic of rage. I don't think that's what's standing there and that's the wrong term. There's no epidemic going on, there's an outbreak of infectious disease and animals and humans, so zoonoses, they exist in our country, occasionally occurs, i.e. It's diagnosed, above all, with wild animals, some of the way, and some of the domestic animals. Fortunately, in the last 50 years almost no human has suffered from rabies, because it is an incurable disease, and when one infected animal is identified in the area of one municipality, then the infected condition is declared and measures are taken to vaccinate potentially infected animals, primarily dogs and cats, but also if there are reservations and some wild animals. Certainly, our country should cross that so-called. oral vaccination of potential carriers of this viral disease and thus the eradication of this disease. For the time being, there is another way of vaccination, and that is why this disease exists in our premises, but simply to have the right information, so that there is no public disturbance, there is no epidemic, but it is possible that one or two animals in the territory of these municipalities have been registered, and that, in accordance with the Veterinary Act, all other veterinary measures have been declared to be carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20186	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20187	I would like to thank Mr. Mašić for his good discussion and after the elaborated amendment to Article 2. The bill of law I think the government can adopt that amendment and I really think adding bees to that list would be necessary. What I'd like to say is that it goes in favor of government policy that for the first time since this year, a 400 dinar subsidy per hive is given by bee society, or it's very important to say one more thing, that the measure programme was adopted, unlike some previous debaters who said it wasn't adopted. The measurement program is starting to run. What I would also like to mention again is that the budget added another 400 million for the wind, and we will see that in the coming months we achieve what was our goal, with a delay of 9 months, how much was in payment from the moment we took over the administration, to arrive at a month or at least two months' pay, how acceptable it is for all veterinary cells, because it really is very important and really represents the problem right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20188	I find that the proposaler's representative has accepted the amendment, but since the Committee on Agriculture is not, then either at the meeting of the Committee there will be statements, thus becoming an integral part of the bill's proposal, or in the day of voting, the National Assembly will declare itself on the amendment accepted by the proposing representative and submitted by MP Zoran Masic to Article 2. I'm setting a break now. After the afternoon work, the afternoon section will begin at 15.05 hours of discussion in particular, by amendment to Article 4, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Krstin. Thank you. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session's work in the afternoon, by discussing in detail and amendments to the agenda points from 4th to 18th. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Ambassador Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to Article 4(3), I believe that the strategy brings the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, to a period of at least ten years. In fact, I consider this proposal to be a law on agriculture and rural development and to explain why it should be at least ten years. Right on the Committee on Agriculture, Minister, if you remember we talked, even you yourself said, one term of office, together with the minister, takes four years. That's the maximum. Whatever minister, on a proposal from the government, the ministry, the EU, in which we are in such a hurry, I believe that the minister, no matter what law he passed, would have to have some longer strategy. A new minister will come, the new minister will propose something else, something that you may think is enough, seven years, since this is the basis in the EU, to adopt for a period of seven years. So I think when you propose laws, they should be longer than you suggested. Otherwise, I believe that, in this situation, I repeat, what kind of agrarian Serbia is in, you would have to make one key analysis that would be the basis for any further development of agricultural production. This key analysis is a prerequisite for creating a long-term strategy, the period I propose. It's the only way a paor can do it, i.e. Peasant, who produces both wheat and corn, who produce raspberries, apples, pears, blackberries, only through that strategy can he be sure that when he makes a new culture on his land, that he will make sure that his product is placed and secure for at least the next ten years, and not for the next seven years, as long as you suggest. That's why I've been asking it to be longer than seven years. I believe that this bill of law or any other, and especially now when it comes to agriculture and rural development, a period of ten years will have some security in that pair and that peasant or agricultural producer. Let the seven years that the EU is prescribing be the basis, but should be increased to ten years. There has always been a five-year plan before, but I believe that agriculture is now in a situation where a plan and strategy should be developed in about ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20191	Before I give my word to Minister Sashi Dragin, I am informing the National Assembly, and on the basis of Article 85, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today we will be working after 1800 hours, and by discussing the point that should be on the agenda at that time. National Assembly Secretary Veljko Odalovic received a notice from RTS Secretary General Stanislav Veljkovic that on Monday, 25 May 2009, a direct transmission of the session will be held by 17.55 hours due to earlier programme commitments. After that, there will be no transmission, and our work will be broadcast in a delayed transmission. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20192	You probably didn't see it right, the strategy was planned for a period of ten years, and the program is up to seven years. In fact, that's what you said, so it's in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20193	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgovanka Tabakovic Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20194	Dear Presidency, Mr. Ministers and Associates in the Ministry of Agriculture, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic has submitted an amendment to Article 4(3) with a proposal to amend this member so that, in essence, the strategy for the development of agriculture is not brought by the Government but by the National Assembly. We believe that there is a basis for this amendment to be accepted because the strategy is one long-term strategic document, and thus it is brought for ten years. Only brought by the National Assembly can it be fully respected by some of the next governments, following the end of the government's mandate to propose the law. Otherwise, such a document called a strategy cannot be of strategic importance if the structure of government changes and the constitution of a new government or some new ruling majority. I also actively participated in the debate on the adoption of an existing strategy that was adopted in the summer of 2005 and which officially continues to exist as a strategic document in the area of agriculture development, although I think the ministry and co-workers in the ministry will agree that it has been overcome. On the other hand, the minister who was before Mr Dragin, who spent a year with his associates on developing a new strategy, from the same party. After the constitution of the new government and this ministry, in essence, that part of the job has been decorated and cut short with work and the creation of a new strategy. However, it certainly has a basis to work more seriously on the strategy compared to the overall state of our agriculture and our agricultural production. Such a long - term document can only be long - term if it is brought by the National Assembly. The amendment of such a strategic act must also go in line with the assembly's rules of procedure and with the assembly procedure, which is much more complex and much more complex than when the government adopts such a document. I again underline that any future government can absolutely not commit such a strategy. I think it's in vain to stand this 10-year term, then you should have suggested that the strategy be brought to four years, the mandate of a government, and possibly extend every four years. I think it was also the basis here that the biller of this law accepts this amendment, because I think it would have had more weight and significance than it would have formally stood for 10 years. I'm undermining that it won't be safe in life. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20195	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, Veroljub Arsic has submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20196	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 and I have been given the reason that the amendment cannot be accepted because it is not in line with the EU's policy on agricultural planning. However, I can say that all governments since 5 October do not have one serious strategic plan when it comes to agriculture, which is basically our most important economic branch. Not to get carried away, Serbia is a agricultural-agrarian country. It's her strategic branch. But all these governments so far have largely followed EU directives blindly, not trying to adapt these same directives to the real situation in the agricultural sector. Our government has no answer to the question, what is the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to excessive imports of agricultural products? What is the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to small agricultural possessions, i.e. small individual agricultural producers? What is the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to cooperatives, etc. So far, the government's strategy has been reduced to introducing a tax on agricultural products and agricultural renomination. The next strategy, that agricultural producers, especially those small, left to the market, where they have competition that they cannot withstand, is a particular import lobby that is and how they feel about agricultural product placement. Our government has no strategy at the moment what to do with surplus agricultural products, since Serbia is growing traditional agricultural cultures, such as wheat, such as corn. Market surpluses appear. Completely over the past few years, the livestock funds of the Republic of Serbia have been destroyed, meaning, at a low price for cattle, so that with the depletion of the stock fund, primary agricultural production and the agricultural industry are destroyed, especially when it comes to the processing of agricultural products. I would like the minister to stand up and say, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since it has some continuity that has been monitored for ten years, imagines that our agricultural producers will prepare for a match they have with foreign agricultural producers and import lobby, especially when it comes to the small agricultural sector, which cannot endure without serious help from the state to the competition. I'd just like to draw attention to the idea that the government should stop the idea that agricultural households should be subsidized per hectare of a farmland. Let's switch to something more realistic, which is subsidize the agricultural product. He's the one giving something. In this way, you will encourage farmers to invest even more in agricultural production, as higher investment is expected to increase profits. No, you guys are flat-out, 100 euros per ha, so who gets by, whichever both of you are, who's a tough guy. This government, because of such a policy and fear of accepting that responsibility, so that we have ski resorts and I don't know what else in Serbia, tourism, which cannot be our basic economic branch, but in the first place agriculture, and everything else, is afraid if it enters a system of agricultural subsidies, will it be able to respect it if the year is good, forgetting that it works for citizens and agricultural producers, and not for someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20197	The word was sought by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20198	I thank you for your discussion with the honourable MP. What you probably thought, it's about the development program for agricultural production, I think you can get acquainted with it on our website or we can give it to you in writing, it's the Agricultural Production Development Plan from 2009 to 2011. This is the first strategic document to be adopted, not only covering an increase in agricultural production, but defining the raising of institutional capacities, as well as the legislative framework, but also material subsidies of agricultural production over the next three years. We thought it was inconclusive to do something for a longer number of years at this point for reasons of inability to assess the speeds of European integration at this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20199	The word has the People's MP Veroljub Arsic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, understand that it is located in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I didn't want to look and advertise the Rules of Procedure. I'm not interested in the Ministry site. The site is clean for information. I am here in the Assembly and before me stands the minister I voted for or did not vote as a MP. You have a set of laws in the area of agriculture. You have as much time as you want in this world to tell all of us 250 what your strategy is, because based on that strategy you can define us how we're going to discuss amendments, how we're going to vote on the law and the amendments individually, whether it's acceptable for us or not. You have to agree with the government's representatives coming here to make this programme, strategy or whatever you want to explain to the MPs. Some amendments, such as amendment by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic, asked for the strategy to be adopted in the Assembly, why not. That's what this is about. In that haste, it seems to me that the sooner you pass the law, the shorter the debate, even you as a proponent, and that strategy should know by heart at any time of the day and night, because you need to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20201	The word has a letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20202	The President-in-Office, respected ministers and other members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about a strategy or a national programme in any area of the economy, then we assume that this strategy is also envisaged in terms of how the crisis is resolved. In particular, when we talk about such an important agricultural law, then we think about the global economic crisis and the domestic crisis within this economic branch, so how is it supposed to overcome this crisis, which strategy is foreseen for overcoming the crisis? Then we should ask the question - does the Government, or the Ministry of Agriculture, have a serious strategy, how will they implement and implement these laws that are on the agenda? Third, the question arises - is there a serious strategy on the reform course for further development of agriculture, what is spoken and written in the media, in the newspapers, on television and so on? These are those strategies that are needed to keep agriculture on its feet, which, you will have to admit, is still located on very low branches. I believe that half of the agricultural budget is largely responsible for the Ministry of Agriculture, because it was not known in the right way that elections for funds that would allow agriculture not only to survive, but also to develop, in some reform course in which the Ministry swears and propagates. With a budget cut in half, it's hardly going to be able to do anything more serious, except cover some of the most necessary costs. Agriculture is in a serious crisis in Serbia. It is exhibited in a reduced number of employees, in lower wages, in less demand, exports, as well as imports, are less agricultural credits. The results are a reduction in the value of production, a reduction in profits, difficulties in buying wheat, sunflowers, soybeans. Serious migration is also foreseen, given that when agriculture is in crisis, then there is also a population in crisis and goes where it could find means to survive. The reforms in agriculture will slow down, there will be fewer foreign direct investments. It is already seen that much less of these direct investments, slower development, production at a higher stage of processing, which is very important for Serbia's economy and economy. The EU agricultural integration process is slowing down. The state is facing this crisis, and it provides an answer by equating considerably smaller funds for agriculture. No budget support for agriculture. There are no direct investments that will speed up this agricultural production, as well as a private initiative to launch businesses by individual peasants. Credits are needed to finance production, to entrepreneurship in agriculture, as well as to buy products, as well as to improve trade. By reducing the, halved budget for the Ministry of Agriculture, it is practically impossible. I have to keep repeating that fact, because it's the best indicator of where agriculture is today in Serbia. In fact, some of the steps needed to take from year to year are delayed to overcome at least some of the difficulties that arise in agriculture. In 2005, it was said that a roof law on agriculture and rural development would be passed. Unfortunately, four years have passed and only today is this roof law, and those four years are literally lost. If the law had been passed in 2005, if we had a food safety law at the time, we certainly wouldn't have a problem with exporting our agricultural products. Moreover, exports would be much larger than we can assume with this state of our agricultural production and with this way of treating agriculture. In fact, with the EU legal framework, with the rules and procedures of the World Trade Organisation and the food chain control system from field to table, Serbia would now, instead of reducing, have an increase in the volume of exports. It would increase even the number of export products, and Serbia has not provided food safety, so no exports of pig meat, meat, meat processing, milk, egg processing, milk exports have been disabled. We have literally lost these four years that have passed since the first hint that something could be advanced in our agriculture legislation. I really don't see why it's happening, and I don't understand why it's been so long and why it's only after four years that this so important law on rural development has arrived on the agenda. Unfortunately, as far as the government's reform course is concerned, it's a very discriminatory course. Why? Because the new concept of agriculture foresees agricultural holdings as lonely units, independent decision-making and business, under-informed peasants. Without a plan and support within some of their associations, the villagers remained undecided in the face of a global and internal crisis. In the world, mergers are accelerated, so-called cooperativeism, because association of organisations and planning are very important for agrobusiness, which is otherwise a very serious business, and in Serbia the agrobusiness is weakly cared for, so agriculture is largely extreme. How else do you explain this situation that from 2007 to today, the NIP has been allocated over one billion euros, and this NIP has shown nothing concrete about building a bridge without talking about the road network, Corridor 10, etc. The money spent in agriculture would probably give many good results and probably give incentives to this agrobusiness for exports and further development. To return to these cooperatives that have literally died, some kind of association and association that are very necessary for farmers, or people dealing with agriculture, to appear as serious factors on the market. Otherwise, I can tell you that there are at least 40 million people in the agrobusiness in Europe, in the cooperative alliance, and there are at least 15 million peasants joined in the alliance. So there is a serious factor that can appear and dictate certain conditions of production, certain conditions of trade. They can organize themselves, they can plan, they can do business, unlike our individual peasant, who is literally left alone to manage, especially today in times of crisis. I repeat, this crisis does not stem exclusively from abroad. This crisis is the least caused by the global economic crisis. We have a serious crisis in our agriculture. I am starting again from not counting both the budget and budget planning itself with agriculture as a serious factor in amortisation of the crisis, a serious factor in not only depreciation, but also the development of the Serbian economy. Otherwise, how else do you explain if you cut the budget in half with such a serious economic branch? The halved budget will have a significant impact on the economy of Vojvodina, which is known and how it depends on agriculture. In this way, Vojvodina is in some way damaged, because it remains to be managed and planned, and it organizes itself, and neither helps nor understanding of it will be obtained. Therefore, there is no development of agriculture without money. With no money left, it's just a story, it's all about paying debts from previous years. The Ministry, if only payment of these subsidies is limited, has not done anything, and these subsidies are not enough for one serious incentive to develop agriculture. Did the ministry think about bringing in any newspapers about VAT? I mean, VAT that refers to those segments of products that are necessary for livestock farming, for warning, all that is needed to feed cattle, all that is necessary for the treatment of cattle, all that is necessary for the feeding, the garbageing of land. Did they think about reducing the VAT in some way, so as to reduce production costs? I think that would be much smarter and much better for peasants and farmers than for those late subsidies, and often they don't get them for a variety of reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20203	Anyone else want a word? Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Vesna Marić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20204	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Ministers and Associates of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is the essence of this amendment that the national rural development programme of agriculture is essentially being brought for the longest period of four years, not as proposed by the Proposer – seven years. Again for the same reasons, which is simply not possible by this law, nor by any other decision by any new government theoretically, after the election that will take place in three or four years, it is not at all important, or after a year of passing this law, to oblige some next government that it literally respects the national programme or strategy as the previous government has made it. I certainly agree that there should be some continuity, especially in agricultural production. However, calling for certain documents and legal solutions in EU countries, that they are made for this period and that it obliges us, is not a strong argument and something is that cannot be absolutely acceptable. Finally, when we talk about rural development of agriculture, I think that this government, as well as the previous governments, have shown one considerable concern about the development of agricultural production precisely in these rural areas, especially in the marginal environments. From year to year, these funds are also reduced according to budget allocation projections, which were discussed on the Committee on Agriculture, before budget rebalances, these funds were relatively low. They are now even smaller after budget rebalancing, and we are all witnessing the state of agricultural production in these rural areas, how difficult it is to live and survive agricultural producers in those environments. A large number of our villages have been devastated. From year to year, the number of inhabitants in those communities is reduced. The growing number of young people remain to be engaged in agricultural production in these rural areas, to form their families, to deal with agriculture and to live on agriculture. We objectively have the potential in these environments and these areas to develop agricultural production in a much larger scale, both classical and organic agricultural production, because these environments are the least polluted and large development possibilities. I think that this government and every future one must come very seriously to the development of agricultural production in rural areas, because otherwise we will be left without so-called. individual agricultural producers. Most villages will grow old and will only remain, let me say, those Latifundi who have their own machinery and who will be able to take larger land complexes than those nursing homes for processing. I'm afraid that in these environments there will be a large number and a large area, better said, arable land unprocessed, healed in parlogous and weeds. It's no one's interest, and I think the government, and in the extreme and the Ministry of Agriculture, is much more committed to agricultural production in these environments. I certainly advocate the adoption of a national programme for the development of agriculture in rural areas, because as such it did not exist and as far as I know, the Ministry is already working or has already completed the document. It should be adopted as soon as possible and done in accordance with it to improve the economic situation of agricultural producers in rural areas as possible, not only by the development of agriculture, but also by the development of other infrastructure factors, roads, waterways, sewerage and improvement of energy supply, all of which will, in a much greater extent, improve the lives of people living in these environments, and in particular, affecting that there remains a much greater number of young people to deal with agriculture, to live from agriculture, to support their families, because that is the only way we can increase the overall volume of agricultural production in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20205	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20206	First, I would like to thank my colleague Mašić for his constructive discussion. What I would like to inform you is that this year, a billion dinars have been provided for rural development more than last year and the rural development strategy has passed a public debate. This is the rural development strategy 2009/2013. And she's waiting for her adoption.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20207	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. National MP Zeljko Brestovici submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 6a be added after article 6. The Committee on Agriculture and the Government accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20208	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment proposing that Article 7 delete Article 1 which provides for the establishment of the Agrarian Payments Authority as a management body within the Ministry. I suggested this because I believe it is an unwarranted introduction of a new harrass on Serbian citizens. This proposal shows all the two-faced policies of the DS and other parties of the ruling coalition. Here's why. On one side, for several months now, you have declared a commitment to reduce the number of employees in the state administration, above all in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You're asking local self-government to cut down on the number of employees practically draining dry dreno. On the other hand in Belgrade, in the state administration you do not stop increasing the number of employees. Under the measures against the current economic crisis, the government has pledged to lift several thousand jobs. This bill shows how you imagined it. You will remove one job, and for these same people you predict the opening of new jobs, of course, party staff DS, G 17, SPS and other parties of the ruling coalition, and you also boast about it. So you're moving the same people from one ministry to another, from one administration to the agency, from one building to another building, from one office to another office. This is another delusion of the ruling coalition. I remind you of that 200,000 new job fairy tale, a story about 700,000 euros to be invested in the flag in Kragujevac, a 1,000-euro free action, visa waiver, etc. Practically, this continues with a devastating, irresponsible policy of uncontrolled employment in the state administration, which began on 5 October 2000. I remind you, at the time you called the dictatorships of Slobodan Milosevic, there were 8,000 people in the state administration. At the time, you claimed that it was inadmissible, that the maltenes were a crime and that you would introduce radical changes after taking over, that you would radically reduce the number of employees. What did you do? In the past nine years, you have hired an additional 20,000 people in the state administration, so that 28,000 people are currently working in the government and the ministries. I don't suppose this new administration will employ less than a dozen new workers. For their salaries, Serbian citizens will spend at least 1,000,000 dinars a month. At the level of four years, it is about 520,000 euros. I have a proposal on how to use these funds better, to use them to eliminate the consequences of the wrong agricultural policy in this particular case. Uncontrollable treatment of agricultural land in the area of the Municipality of Velika Plan, at the source of Livada from which the Great Plan is supplied with water, caused water pollution, so it is practically no longer for human use. For five years, 50,000 citizens of the Great Plane have no drinking water. As I have spoken several times in this assembly, the problem is possible only by building a water factory, however, objectively because of the current economic crisis, the question is whether the state can single out four or fivem euros, as long as it takes for the factory to end. I suggest that a temporary solution be made, to install a temporary facility in which a water treatment system would be installed. The system costs less than a million euros. If the system was installed, it would allow the supply of healthy drinking water to residents of the town's Velika Plana, Veliki Orasja, part of the inhabitants of Stari Sela, Markovac and Novi Sela, in practice, about 30,000 citizens would be given the opportunity to drink drinking drinking water from the city water line after five years. The investment costs about a million euros. I suggest that the government accept this amendment, give up the establishment of this administration. The half-million-euro funds shift to address the water supply issue in the Great Plan, and we in local self-government will provide the remaining funds and thus achieve that the citizens of the Great Plan within two or three months, as well as all other people in Serbia, drink healthy drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20209	The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 65 minutes, three minutes have been used by the MP. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20210	First of all, I need to inform the esteemed MPs that the ministry has reduced the number of employees by 10% over the past month and I regret to say that many of the people we needed are no longer working at the Ministry. In addition, it is important to note that it is agreed that the Agency for Agricultural Payments will employ people who are already working in the Ministry and people who are already working in the Treasury, at the Ministry of Finance, thus not increasing the number of employees in the ministry. As for the observation of the number of employees in the state administration, it is very important to note that there has been a merger of federal authorities with the republican authorities since 2000, so you cannot talk about these figures in such a way, unless you are very misdirected. What is also very important to point out is that the basis for obtaining European funds – more specifically from IPArd funds, rural development funds, which you have just spoken about on the Great Plan – is that there is an Agrarian Payments Authority, which means that between 50 and 100 million euros a year you can't win unless you have this institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20211	Anyone else want a word? National MP Dusan Maric, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20212	Mr. Minister, thank you for your attempt to answer me. I'll be very brief. In an attempt to explain, to defend what cannot be defended, which is the employment of 20,000 people, 20,000 party activists DS, SPS, G17, SPO in just seven years, you tried to explain it by uniting the republican and federal authorities. You know, you can invent 50 ministries, you can invent 50 administrations, you can invent 50 agencies, you've done it, but the amount of business that the Republic of Serbia has now is smaller than the size of jobs that the Republic of Serbia had 10 years ago, and because of the situation in the economy, because of the situation in the economy, because of our international position, etc. That I don't owe. This can't be a valid reason for you to defend the fact that 8,000 people were employed in the government on October 5, 2000, according to your information we received in the reports you filed here, various ministries, government, etc. You've increased that number from 8,000 to 28,000. Every year, you have practically employed 2,000-2,500 people, and now you will fire 2,000 or 3,000 people, you will send a message to the citizens of Serbia, probably a pre-election message, how you take care of the standard of Serbian citizens, how you take care of their home budgets, and that's how you sacrificed yourself, you fired 3,000 people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20213	I ask the MPs who receive the right and the word to use the right to reply, to take advantage of that right. The Rules of Procedure set out exactly what is the right to replication and what are the obligations of MPs who receive the right to the word replica, what is needed to say to justify giving the right to the word for replica. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Željko Brestovici. The Committee on Agriculture and the Government accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become part of the bill. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? People's MP Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20214	Since the SRS parliamentary group has submitted several amendments to Article 7, I will state the reason for the submission of these amendments. He is clear and loud, as well as the first one, explained by counterpart Ljubomir Kragovic, which is the agrarian payment administration. This is the problem that we, the SRS parliamentary group and SRS MPs are struggling with, as I listen to Minister Dinkic soundly, who will fire out of the 713 zeroes. From what I've heard from a few ministers, they say they've reduced some 20%, some 12%, etc., but Minister Dinkic hasn't reduced any jobs in his ministry and has 713 employees. This is one of the reasons why this set of amendments of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 7, because of this administration and because of what it seems to be from individual ministers in the Serbian government – cutting budgets, firing workers by municipalities, services, ministries, public services, etc. However, it does seem to be a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20215	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Goran Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20216	Namely, section 3. The proposal for a law on agriculture and rural development concerns the Agrarian Payments Administration, which is a corresponding explanation given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the only accredited representative for the implementation of the fifth component of the EU IPA Funds, which is intended to develop agriculture. These funds are reportedly supposed to provide Serbia with about 50m to 60m euros for rural development, but could only be used under imperatives to provide a decentralised payment system in Serbia, which, according to the government's explanation, can only be realised by the aforementioned agrarian payment administration operating within the agriculture ministry. Article 7(2)(7) states that one of the competences of this administration would also be to establish and maintain accounting for the recording of contractual obligations and payments. My suggestion is to delete this member, and I'll try to explain briefly why. So far, all the jobs of this kind have been carried out through the Ministry of Finance, more specifically the Treasury Administration, which has been materially, personnel and organisationally trained to carry out this work. However, for the successful work of the Agrarian Payments Administration, as the Government explained, it would be necessary to employ some 15 new people and more people in the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and all justice by providing these funds from some EU budgets intended for Member States and associated Member States. We must not forget the old saying that "free cheese is only in mice", because if we accept such a solution, then the organisation of this service should be done according to the model of the agency for agrarian payments, which already exists in EU countries, while with us the work of such institutions is regulated by the 2005 Law on Public Agencyes. Under the law, such agencies should act as independent institutions. That's exactly where the main trap is hiding in this article. This would only reveal the door for the entry of foreign products into the Serbian agricultural market, and if we add the recently signed Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we would only further put a noose around the door to Serbian agriculture and Serbian agricultural producers and there would certainly be a choke of domestic production, which no one in that case could stop. Furthermore, we need to add to this the fact that the work of this service would require the purchase of expensive equipment, primarily hardware and software, which should be accredited by the European accreditation commission. Then there'd be employee education. Taking into account all this, it is just one unnecessary imposition on the Serbian citizens' budget, who are already experiencing a difficult economic crisis, which means that all these stories and fairy tales, in order to make it easier for us to get candidate status for EU membership, are no longer going to the people, because as the matter stands, we will remain only a majority of candidates and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20217	The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 63 minutes. The word was requested by Minister Sasha Dragin, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20218	I would just like to inform the MP that IPA funds for this year have provided 4.5m euros for this purpose, so it will not be a burden on the Republic of Serbia's budget, nor on the taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20219	National MP Goran Mihajlovic. What do you want, straight to the replica? You don't think it's true that 4.5 million euros are provided? Is that what you want to explain? I'm just going to ask you to explain that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20220	It's okay that the minister says the funds are provided for this year, but the people who are admitted to that agency will have to work for the coming years, again, will have to be provided from budget funds from our citizens, which means that this argument of the government cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20221	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20222	I am very sorry that you did not listen to your party colleague, or answer his question. As I said, 10% of people have already been fired from the Ministry of Agriculture, and for a given administration staff will be employed, or people who work in the RS Treasury. Thus, there will be no additional burden on the budget in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20223	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was submitted by Parliament of People Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric. The time available for the New Serbia parliamentary group is 10 minutes and 48 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Milutin Jelic submitted an amendment in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, which should be added point 5 in Article 9, item 1, after point 4), which is a monetary incentive per unit of area per hectare. This would, of course, encourage a maximum increase in the processing area under various agricultural cultures, while reducing the percentage of the unprocessed agricultural area. What was the objective of this amendment is that it certainly encourages investment in agriculture, i.e. investing in long-term routes, because production of processed areas is a long process. Since we are facing, indeed, the destruction of agricultural areas, if we take the highway from Belgrade to Novi Sad further, we will see in fields, i.e. farmland, the tables on which I sell the plot. I'm not selling the field anywhere, I'm selling the place. You know what that term means and what's gonna happen here. If we concreteize all these surfaces, then by short-term investment in a uncertain trading network, we'll destroy something that's a long-term possible gain in agriculture. Since investing in agriculture can, indeed, be tied between 47 and 50% of the working age population, indirectly and directly in food production, in which Serbia has a long tradition, which should be held, we certainly believe that this amendment should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20225	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20226	Mr. Minister, the SRS has been eager and gallantly expecting the laws to come on the agenda to the National Assembly. However, she didn't expect it to be 15 laws united, I'm sure you'll agree with me that it's impossible to seriously discuss so little time on this many laws. Mr. Minister, your relationship as Minister of Agriculture, and I'm going to quote one of your statements, I think it was in Sremska Mitrovica, you said "the country's ratio to agriculture is pork". I couldn't agree more with you. We finance ministers pointed out, first of all, when the RS budget was, that it could not be treated in such a way as to treat the state to our farmer. Now we're in a situation where, again, the Ministry of Agriculture is losing funds. I will remind you that here, in this Article 9, the position of the 4th is non-commercial agricultural holdings. By regulation, as Mr. Marash said, you downloaded these 30%. By regulation, you have abolished 40,000 non-competitional holdings. Why do you need that item in the law when we don't respect it? I wanted to ask you, now that the short-term loans have arrived, you know that this is the period when they come back, is there any possibility that people who are not in a position to get their credit back, and that the state, on other grounds, or the Ministry of Agriculture, owes them money, I mean, first of all, subsidies to the breeding heifers, where you haven't paid the third and fourth quarters from 2008, why can't that part simply beat up with the state and the difference for the farmer to pay? They even get bank warnings that their agricultural holdings will be abolished. I'd like to ask you what about long-term agricultural loans, where our farmers have raised long-term loans, put mortgages on the house and the country, to expand their production? I'll take just one segment for example, people who bought the rock heifers, you know for a fact that the price of milk, which fell with 34 dinars, is currently 18 to 20 dinars, depending on the quality, that simply the editors are blackmailing our agricultural producers. Not to mention, that the ransom from the cooperative in many places was absolutely abolished and people were left to themselves. People who have their lactose, believe that they're so engaged that they have the best quality of milk, that it's just amazing. Our farmer is about to launder with his cows, however, they find reasons to have somatic cells, to have bacteria, all for reasons to end their ransom. Mr. Minister, I'm interested in whose smart head let the milk powder be imported? I just don't know why I can't help but think that you're the minister who's the softest in the government. Probably in a pack of wolves, there's little meat, so you agree that the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't get the most money, and when the 2009 budget was at stake, and now that it was budget rebalance. I hope that since agriculture is a branch where I say we're making a surplus, that you'll get the most of it, to turn to our agricultural producers and help them, to end the tycoons. You said no problem was coming to the Ministry. I've been calling your chief of staff a few times. We'll come with specific names and last names, with people who bought agricultural goods, or social enterprises, in the way they're allowed, and I can tell you that 90% of the cases have been bought, now that everything is sown. So, without the dinars to invest in production, Mr. Minister, all they did was pick up the kamak in the fall, and during that time they fired the workers and made them sick. Since we have a little time, I hope you respond, as you all answer, and there are more amendments, so I hope we continue the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20227	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 56 minutes and 30 seconds. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20228	Thank you for your discussion. I'd only ask you not to impute words that match your aesthetics rather than mine. In addition, I'd like to say that funds will be paid for the breeding heifers by the beginning of June. As for the credit reprogramme, we're negotiating with commercial banks to do so as soon as possible. As regards information related to milk powder, the Ministry of Trade decided on duty-free imports by 12 December 2007.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20229	Anyone else want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture tabled an amendment to Article 15. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 16. The proposal for a law on agriculture and rural development, which reads: "Article 16(1), after the word "subsistence" the word "government" is replaced by the word "minister". "The government rejected the amendment with the following explanation: "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the measures prescribed by the draft law are necessary to establish a body within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources, the Agency for Agricultural Payments, in order to adopt operational and systematic management of the operations of the distribution of incentives. Thus far, the activities of the register of agricultural holdings have been conducted in the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury Administration, as the only authority that could operate the measures of the Ministry, agriculture, forestry and water industry in the area of incentives. However, because of these transactions, many of the jobs stemming from its original powers, established by the Budgetary System Act and other laws, have been difficult to carry out. What do we see from this argument? We see that DS and other ruling coalition parties, even at the time of the biggest economic crisis, invent new state bodies, new jobs for their party activists. In addition to 28 ministries, 68 secretaries, 112 assistants, 55 advisers, 105 different agencies, another agriculture authority, i.e. Agriculture management?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20231	Anyone else want a word? (No) Marina Ragush, Member of the 16th Amendment, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th amendment was submitted by Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 17 by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20232	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 17, and most of this law probably wants to degrade our agricultural producers even more, and that these laws cannot yet be organised according to the wishes of the market. Do you, gentlemen of the Ministry, really think this law will allow incentives to be realised? As we have heard from the presentation of previous colleagues related to these 12000 per hectare incentive funds, the regulation allows for this to be reduced. It's already been seen. Our peasant has simply Googled your laws. Farmers and agricultural producers today have no incentive to produce, since the stake in one hectare is a flat loss at the end of the production cycle. They're still doing the verse. The peasants are without an organization as well as a herd without a shepherd. The shepherd should be the Ministry and Government, but in Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture is run by various world-wide laymen, NGOs and all those who know nothing about agriculture but influence the rural development of our village. Anyway, these laymen are visiting our salachas where they eat well and they're affecting our survival in this dam. In accordance with point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 3(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. It's never happened before, nor will it happen, that you give the farmer some funds, and then ask for vomit. Mostly, the ministry owed peasants at various levels and by various forms of debt. Agriculture should flourish, but not with you who are currently in power. I know the minister can't run this area by himself, because he's listening to someone there, too, not to name those people. I'll say that cattle and pig farming in Srem was at the level of one million tollers in some period. There was no law then, and the peasants were encouraged, so this law is only one in a series of your lows.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20233	The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is 55 minutes and 30 seconds. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20234	I'd agree with you. Just for information, currently over 100 items are assigned to the MUP for verification, and the current demand for funds that have not been used on purpose is one billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20235	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 17th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment, a letter from the Verse of Radeta was submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Agriculture, tabled an amendment proposing that the title and the new member of 29a be added after Article 29. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment became an integral part of the draft law. Milovanovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, so that in the first point of point 3 of the article, the word "government" is replaced by "ministration". Besides the huge number and agencies and administrations he has, I don't think forming another administration really is necessary. Not only is it not necessary, but in these times of crisis, simply extending the administration doesn't make sense. I may not even be reporting to defend this amendment, but I am irritated by the government's reasoning of both this amendment and many other amendments. The government's reasoning is mainly repeated from the amendment to the amendment. And not only that, but if a little goes into the essence of the government's reasoning, it really does seem cynical. Let me just quote one part of this substantial, lengthy explanation of the government that, as I said, goes with a huge number of amendments. It is said in one place in the explanation: "According to EU directives". Gentlemen, you can't even hide that you're receiving directives on the side, that is, this time from the EU. EU members themselves do not accept such directives, but they agree, agree or try to agree, and we see how it is done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20237	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20238	I would just like to point out that all documents issued by the EU are called directives.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20239	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Dragan Stevanovic submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Philip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment, she submitted a letter to Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20240	I'm going to take this opportunity, based on this amendment, that's one part of where we're replacing the fines in numbers. Given that I have now heard from the south of Serbia, namely KIM, and released the fax, ministers, there was a great storm yesterday in the Kosovo Pomorev area. The city was falling the size of an egg, it damaged the roofs of the houses, gardens where there were vegetables, vegetables no more, the pastures left a wasteland. The wheat and the rest of the plains, as if it had crossed the roller. The orchards were suffering. The most injured villages in Gjilan municipality, and that is Shilovo, Koretište, Gornja Kusce, Stanishor, Pasjane, Donja Budriga and the town of Gjilana itself. They ask who will make up for these people, and how, if KIM is in Serbia? No matter what, Minister, there was a storm here, he had Sombor, Ruma, and if I didn't list some more inhabited places, but since we know how they live there, and they live, if I didn't say, like in the ghettos, I'd ask you, it's the area of the Kosovo Maritimes, it's about the affected villages in the Gjilan municipality. So, Shilovo, Korethište, Upper Kusce, Stanishor, Pasjane, Donja Budriga and Gjilana itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20241	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 53 minutes. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20242	I assume you know that the Ministry of Agriculture on two occasions last year provided all the necessary material for agricultural production for Kosovo's territory, i.e. for Serb enclaves. The agriculture ministry also opened a professional service office in Kosovo. For this reason, all people who have problems with agricultural production, or with production, can always expect the assistance of this administration, as we have done so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20243	Mr. Velimir Ilic picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20244	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, we expected very much from the Minister of Agriculture and from the laws themselves that were to be adopted and adopted safely, all 15 laws, as you intended, and this is in a united debate in principle. That the laws are bad and the peasant won't get anything, that shows 700 amendments that are attached and that will also pass without any specific discussions, discussion. In ten hours, surely all political options cannot be discussed in a quality way about 700 amendments. The question, therefore, is: What will the peasant get after this set of laws that were passed, all 15 in a united debate, have completed the principle debate for the morning? This shows one indifference, as the government, as the ruling coalition understands agriculture. What's the peasant gonna get? Is the tractor going to be cheaper, how he's going to buy it, what's he going to do with the mortgage? Last time I spoke, today a tractor, say "Universal", costs 20 ha of fertile forest land. What kind of peasant in Šumadia and Pomoravlje has 20 ha in a piece, so he can bet on a mortgage? How can a farmer buy today, if the value of agricultural households, which have produced generations, per five-six generations is the rule of one household and what is now worth, for example in Dragacev, in the municipality of Kosjerić, Požega, 12-15.000 euros, means, completely, the host family is worth so much to the market. The people are moving, the youth is moving, the villages are empty. And where there's healthy food, you government gentlemen want to make trouble today. I recently visited Koseric municipality. For example, you want to put a tire there in cementery and completely destroy one of the healthiest areas in Serbia. The Minister of Ecology has given consent. They say it's good, there are filters, there's protection, there's tires coming from the EU and they're burning there. We had the healthiest food there. Now I ask you, when it's so good, what does this Europe give us old tires? Here, we'll pick them up the tires for free, load them up and let them burn, if that's so good, and it's not carcinogenic. So there's a lot of talk about agriculture, and our peasant doesn't get anything. He'll get the laws, he'll get new problems, he'll get the laws he needs. We'd all like the country households to be arranged, where the cheese is cheesed, where the Kajmak hangs on, to be white tiles, to be refrigerating appliances, but it needs money. The peasant paid for wars, sanctions, high unemployment, fed his closest in the city, which could not eat and survive and saved Serbia. What did he get today? Nothing. Why did you cut the funds in the rebalancing and in the future, cut the malts in half compared to last and previous year? Why are so many funds allowed to be destroyed? Here, you have now taken from the IMF a loan without the knowledge of this Parliament -- three billion euros. You're saying it's not a ratified contract. There was no debate in parliament on how the funds would be spent. The National Bank doesn't account for anyone, it literally does what it wants, doesn't present its accounts to anyone about its business. How much for agriculture, what will the Serb village get? The Serbian village is empty. I recently said that in the municipality of Kursumli 17 villages there are no residents, in the border zone with Kosovo. All schools are closed, there's not a single student to go to school. So, what is the perspective of the Serbian village? Here, Pajtic took the funds, I remember from the previous governments, for the defensive dikes. Were they built in Vojvodina by defensive dikes? It's not safe. We tell an empty story, and every time it gets stuck, there's no money where it's needed most, for agriculture. I would like, as you talk about the EU day and night, to see some important people from the EU, who are our markets for agriculture in the EU, in the world, where are we going to place? We've heard how much meat we used to produce, how much we had in that toll, and how much meat we have today. Where are we going to place our products when we buy milk? Serbia imports powdered milk. Please, it's never happened so much. How can a Serbian peasant survive, what will he sell, where to sell, etc.? I know you'll be building warehouses. There's talk of it. I listened to Dulicka when she talked about the big coolers. These are made party freezers, for people to join a particular party, made coolants across Serbia, which are now empty, most are empty. Here, let the raspberries tell you how they went, they can do whatever they want, but it's a difficult situation. The peasant picks the blackberry, the raspberries, that's our perspective, and the mushrooms. At least it used to make a lot of money, and today it's just to survive. He's a more expensive picker than he picks. How to survive? Like a bag of artificial fertilizer. I said, the ar of the country, the most fertile in Serbia, is two sacks of artificial fertilizer. It was never in Serbia's history. Why isn't there a grant for artificial fertilizer? For the means of protection? How much did they cost? How much are they now? I repeat, specifically, when laws are passed what will be better in Serbia, will Serbia go? You see for yourself, we don't have, and we used to have some shows for agriculture, now just games and only whoever offers the smallest offer will get a car, get a house, an apartment, everyone gambles in Serbia expecting something to come to them. They saw that nothing can be earned from work, and the example is a peasant who does the most work. If he'd written overtime, who would have paid for it. Work from sun to sun, as our people say, and fight for survival. How a peasant now, Mr. Minister, for a student in Belgrade or in Kragujevac or somewhere else, will take four or five lambs a month. How much money is a lamb? How many pigs does it take to hide? And not to tell you right now about the car registration as long as it takes, how much you've increased. How to survive and how? I repeat, people got warmed up, they started, but it was a story that had nothing to do with it. How's the country's infrastructure? When I was a minister, I was spat on day and night by individuals who were in government today that I made a road for the village of Gona Gora that, I don't know, cost so much and so much. People who couldn't reach the tractors at home. How much is planned for the country's infrastructure now? Nothing. We raised these bathing villages and built roads there and worked asphalt so that people could stay or survive to live and to return to the population. Look at Divcibar's stake in them, in that neighborhood. We're on our way. Why are the villages around the desert? You can't come. It's free. There's gotta be roads, there's water, there's good electricity, there's gotta be phones. We charge TV subscription to people in Serbia who don't see any TV channels. Take Ercheg, take the edge, take the goal area, come everyday and complain, they have to pay the subscription, and they don't see any single RTS program. When I asked that question to the director of television, you know what he said to me. He says, what, and he has to pay for schools and who doesn't have a kid. I don't care about the maltene, which the village specified doesn't see a single TV program, it has to pay the subscription. What's that poor peasant gonna do, and what's that young man gonna be looking for in the country, and how to stay and deal with what? What is the future of the Serbian village? It's all going to the cities. Do you know that when a family comes to Belgrade from the inside, it costs the city of Belgrade 100,000 euros immediately. Why? They need parking, they need school, they need a kindergarten, they need extra electricity, they need water, they need sewers, they need infrastructure. If the tenth part of it was invested in the village, Serbian villages would blossom and the people would live there. It's all in big cities. Why? So that you who are in the coalition will get votes. You're not interested in areas that have a small population. If you were interested, then you would talk about Leban, down that part of Serbia, about southern Serbia, about Western Serbia. We'd like to talk here for sure about Shumadi. What kind of economy does that? Do you know that just the last 20 years, south of Danube and Sava Belgrade, he's built an Orlovach cemetery, and now we've started doing that highway. It's proven how much you invest in the village. You see how you took advantage of it, half of the Forest you attached to Belgrade to take coal in the Kolubara Basen and make electricity, and to pour funds into the city of Belgrade, and those who live around Obrenovac have ashes, both around Lazarets, and dust and problems. The villages are moving all over. The area remains completely destroyed and destroyed, waterless. That's where the peasant stays and what to do in that area. To get a job in town? He can't. Therefore, Minister, you must take a walk through Serbia. Come down a little south. I know you're visiting parts. Come somewhere you've never been, in these parts that I'm talking about. At least I haven't seen you, I haven't heard in the media that you've visited, that you've found a solution. Here, a colleague was talking about anti-urban protection. These days, Serbian villages are destroying the city. What did you do? We defend ourselves like in the Middle Ages against the city, we shoot, and we can't shoot with missiles, they're gone. I'm watching, those who protect certain villages have two, three, and some don't have any missiles. He didn't have the money to get his hands on time. What's going on now? The city destroys, kills, and the peasant cannot survive. Why there is no modern anti-building protection, such as in the EU, we are talking about adopting European laws. Why aren't we here? You know how Europe protects its village from the city and from the city clouds. That's what they said from year to year that the funds would be defined. It's an extremely small asset. We can use the air force we have. The airports we have can be used. In the 21st century, modern Europe doesn't know about the city. When did the French village kill the city for the last 30 years? Never. At our place every year. Those who give the order not to shoot, who say we have overflights, have a salary of 20,000 euros, 15,000 euros and 10,000 euros. That's what we talked about in parliament. How do they separate some euro for our poor and tortured village, why don't they try with you, with the Minister of Agriculture, to find a solution? A little bit. Do you know that anti-urban protection costs as much as the city destroys let's take two municipalities in Serbia to buy modern, modern equipment. You can tell where the city clouds are coming from, from Drina. He goes to meet them, and that's been talked about more than once. So, Mr. Minister, the mountain was shaking, the mouse was born, our people said it well. We had a set of 15 laws for agriculture, it was bombing, it's going to be a miracle, the village will go, we'll be a modern part of Europe, our peasant will have Switzerland in his village, we'll look like Swiss villages. We'll pass those laws, your majority will vote it out, and the amendments we'll pretend, see for ourselves how we're going to do it, something may arrive in the next 10 hours, and we won't even look at it. We tried opposition through these amendments to fix that bad law. Unfortunately, nothing more important will happen in the village. I'd like you to deny me practically, but I don't want you to believe me. In these parliaments, both federal and republican, in these last twenty years he has listened to sets of laws and sets of laws... (President: National MP, time at the disposal of your parliamentary group has been used. ) and after every law, the peasant in Serbia is getting worse and worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20245	The word has a minister, Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20246	I thank the honourable Monsieur Ilic. Regarding his discussion, I can answer those questions addressed directly to the Ministry of Agriculture, and for the rest, he will have to ask for an answer from other representatives of the government. As for what the peasant will get about this set of laws and the discussion of tractors, I can say that this year a programme for the purchase of new mechanisms with 2,000-euro subsidies was launched, and during the agricultural fair only 650 of the domestic tractor manufacturer was issued. I personally spoke to the director of IMT, who told me that it was a problem before to sell, and now his problem is to produce as many tractors as he wanted. As for that part about the country and whether it can get a loan to pawn its own country or house, I can tell you that the Law on Public Storages and defines part of the issue of a warehouse on which it will be able to borrow and thus will no longer have to advocate the country in order to restore its agricultural production, but will do so through a warehouse, or via its product. As for the part relating to the availability of agricultural land, the changes to the Law on Land and the definition of the part which is related to the availability of the land to farmers themselves, i.e. to make it easier for them to reach the ground, because they will have the advantage of local farmers so as not to take away their tycoons or anyone else. As for healthy food, I can tell you that this year a significantly higher budget is related to organic production and to the production of healthy food. As for that tire burning part, I can only say that during my term of office, I have not given a single permit to burn tires, but I have advocated, first of all, the recycling of that material. As for the development of the village, I've already said, you weren't in the O.R. this year, that we've done one billion more for rural development than it was before. As for the commentary on the construction of the defensive dikes, I can say that all the dikes were built according to the programme after the flood that was two years ago. I'd just like to remind you of one moment since that flood, or the defense of Tisa near Moshorin, when one minister from the then Republic government, was there when I was present as deputy regional secretary, came with two ults, unloaded them in mud to half of the wheels, one was broken, there was no elevator in the other, took pictures next to them and left. I don't know if you're familiar with that minister. What I would also like to say, and you have commented on the question - who gives permission to import milk powder, the permit free to import milk powder was issued on 12 December 2007 until 12 April 2008, when you were in the government and you personally voted to give that authorisation. Also, as far as the cost of studying in lambs is concerned, I apologize, I work at the university, with me at the Faculty of Agriculture, students don't graduate from school through lambs, but by learning. As you graduate from your university, that best explains your comment. As for the anti-urban defense, I can tell you that RHMZ is an institution that isn't in the Ministry of Agriculture, but I can say that there are currently 12,000 missiles and that another 2,900 missiles have been purchased for this year. What I can also tell you is that it's a capital investment. I assume you know that from March 2004 to May 2008, you were the Minister of Capital Investment and you could probably have done something about it. I can tell you that I've launched an initiative to get the anti-building defense into the hands of the military first and in such a way as to save itself from the unnecessary firing of missiles, or the spending of state funds, and later to start by sowing the clouds of silver-yodide from the plane, and we're agreeing with the Ministry of the Army to do so in the shortest time possible. As for that question where you said the last time the city was beaten in France, if you'd watched the news, you'd probably have seen that yesterday in France a city the size of a tennis ball fell and that was on all the news as a rarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20247	MP Velimir Ilic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20248	I was expecting a very serious debate, this is a serious issue, but I didn't expect an insult from the minister. Mr. Minister, I've graduated from the University of Belgrade, Technical Faculty, and I've mastered the University of Kragujevac, if that's what you're interested in. I wouldn't want you to insult anyone because you came here to talk. You're the minister, this parliament has chosen you, and that teaches you Canak, your ideologist, the idea leader who will lead you there, and will lead Serbia where you're going, but we hope you won't be able to do it there. You didn't sign for ecology, but that's why your successor signed, Mr. Dulic. He signed it and check it out, I guess you're talking to your ideologist and boss, and I can see that he's some kind of humanist very important to you. Therefore, for those permits, who gave for importing milk, so do you speak to the minister of trade, could you tell him -- sir, is it possible that someone who took the tall milk heifers in Serbia at 2,300 euros if the price of milk per year from 34 dinars falls to 17, how will he repay it? It's not true that people didn't mortgage, they gave houses and land at that time, how do they get back now? Talk to the Sopocani monastery, we had to urinate, how the people who took the heifers were high with today's milk price. What do manufacturers who have 120 cows that milk 1,500 or 1,600 gallons of milk a day and no one will? They go and beg for some milkers to take, there's no price they'll take them for. So, Mr. Minister, don't act like that, these MPs didn't deserve it. That's what I'm telling you for, and it's not a good policy for you, Mr. Minister. Don't insult me. I expected you to be the one minister we could talk to, talk to, discuss, discuss. But you left right away, and I didn't see a small man and more combative, and you immediately went, who ended up where he ended up. If I were to examine where you graduated from college, you can see how agriculture is going under you, that's what the villagers say best. So you're a good fit? Those poor students you teach, Mr. Minister, when you act like one. That poor student who's finishing college with you. Where will he be expert in showing up? He'll be just like you, Mr. Minister, for sure, who you think you are. You're so arrogant that you came here before the MPs to talk to us, that you're checking out our diplomas. I'm finishing my working century a little while longer and I've proven myself to be an engineer in that field extremely much, and as an expert, Mr. Minister, and you, I want the same thing, and as a minister, I've proven myself...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20249	People's MP, the time at your disposal for replica has been used. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I also ask the MPs and all other participants to remind themselves of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which bind us all together to polite treatment. If it is necessary to read the stenogram of your own discussions occasionally, then perhaps it can help. Minister Sasha Dragin, he wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20250	Since Ambassador Ilic is no longer in the O.R., I would not take his word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20251	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20252	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 42, which is deleted. The position of the SRS is that we do not support the establishment of new administrations and any other agencies and in such a large-scale state apparatus in this economic crisis, and therefore we felt that Article 42 should be deleted. I got an answer from the minister for a few questions. It's nice that the minister wants to respond to every MP, but, Mr. Minister, you only answer what you want, and I have the impression that you're going to deliberately skip something. You didn't answer me why the regulation was removed from the non-competition agricultural holdings of 40,000 dinars? Then you gave an explanation that the pensioners who pleaded as commercial agricultural holdings would get 30%, so you said they would get 5,000 dinars, if I'm not mistaken, if they betray the country in the arena. How can he, by two grounds, be his country in the agricultural land and betray it in the arena? It's not an explanation, so I figured out the 30%, adequate, but if I'm not mistaken, this is the second year that non-commercial agricultural holdings don't have the 40,000 aids they've had. As far as mortgage loans are concerned, who took credit from the AP Vojvodina Development Fund, believe me, these are stories from the Western District field, even wider, even in one part of Southbay to Novi Sad, I know that area. The mortgages have already been activated, and the only reason is because the price of milk is so low. You know that well. People want to come back, they even want one piece back, not entirely, which is why I've urged you to engage, to help these people, to postpone their payments, because that way we won't keep young people in the country, I'm sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20253	The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20254	Thank you. You probably didn't understand when I was talking, I'll do it again. If you're a pensioner, you can get five thousand dinars if you betray that country, you can get an extra five thousand dinars if you give someone under the age of 40. In addition, it is very important for you to get an arena of 120 to 150 euros per hectare, depending on where the country is. On the other hand, if you want to get subsidies, you can get 30% of the other funds they get, that's two totally separate things. What is also important to say is that the rebalance of loans related to dairy cattle, the proposal for a rebalancing is sent to the Association of Milk Producers and we expect an answer from them. As soon as we get that, we're going to go into realisation and that's really the question we need to worry about. Thank you for mentioning him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20255	The People's MP, Free Maras, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20256	There's no need, Mr. Minister, to address the MPs in that way. You told me this morning that I could have been better prepared, that's what you said to some of your other colleagues. I don't think you listened to what was said more precisely. Of course, as a lawyer and as someone who worked on human resources, I know that someone who's retired doesn't pay their pension in retirement. What your colleague just told you, and what you just said, I'd like you to explain it to me in the following case. You said what a pensioner who deals with agricultural production, or has a country, can do that in the arena, etc. What if a pensioner wants to work, and there is a regulation and there is a law allowing him to, in accordance with the law, when he submits the necessary documentation, receive the funds that the state has promised him and then you bring, as we talked about in the morning, the regulation, which is valid after eight days of publication, which says he will have the right to regress the re-compromitrals of 30% of the amount foreseen for the mineral fertiliser, i.e. the declared seed, i.e. diesel fuel, i.e. Eurodizell, or biodiesel. During the day, we were called from Glozena, from Bačko Petrovec, from some of the other environments of pensioners who are in the same situation, meaning they submitted a request of 419 thousand. The budget calls for a gentleman to receive 300,000 dinars, he will now get 90 and a few thousand, because the regulation retroactively applies. Say what with those people who want to deal with agricultural production, who don't want to give land in the arena, who have their own country, want to continue to process it, are in full strength, do it their whole lives, have no one younger to leave behind. They've invested large funds, 420 grand, all with fiscal accounts handed over to the Treasury and then the Treasury gets a notice that, according to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, received on 19 May, that I'm not repeating the same thing, 30% goes to those who are pensioners for regression and all the demands that have been submitted in the previous period will, according to the new regulation... Please explain to us what will happen to these people. These aren't small funds for each of us, especially for those who live on it. There's no need to talk to us MPs like that. I don't think any MP here has shown here, or that everyone has shown their duty to do business, I'm undermining once again, the relationship of you as Minister of Agriculture I appreciate, because you always have a large number of associates coming with you. So you respect this congregation in the way that it is needed, but you don't have to address us, none of us have an evil intention, none of us have asked any questions that could be destructive to you as a minister. Of course we've been preparing, and of course we want to get answers to questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20257	The time available to the LDP's authorised representative is three minutes and 30 seconds, and the word has been sought by the minister, Sasa Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20258	I thank Mr. Marsh for giving me one more chance to explain. Exactly what's he gonna get? What is very important, will get, above all, 30% of the subsidies, will receive income from their country and will receive the pension it is already receiving, which has been very rarely the case so far, that any farmer could have achieved in one part, if he wanted to do so. If he doesn't want to, he can issue land, get five grand for it, if he gives someone under the age of 40, another five thousand dinars, and he gets money from the arena, which I said was between 120 and 150 euros, depending on where the atar is. Besides, I'd like to underline one more thing if this year we had first solved the issue of agricultural pensions. As you know, farmers haven't paid pension insurance in a very long time, and for that reason these debts have accumulated. This year, together with the Ministry of Finance, we made a regulation in which farmers are not asked to settle their previous obligations before 2008, and those debts were between 500 and thousands of dinars in some farmers. By the end of the year, legislation should also be passed allowing the part of the debt to be written off. This is something that has kept all farmers away for years and is no longer being paid into retirement insurance in agriculture, and for this reason, pensions in agriculture are low. In order to allow farmers who are 65 years old to deal with what grandparents are supposed to do, it is to guard their grandchildren and leave their jobs to younger ones, not to let those younger ones work with their parents until they are 70 years old, and only then become masters of their own land. That problem had to be solved. I apologize if in previous discussions in any way you've gotten the impression that I've failed to inform you in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20259	People's MP, Free Maras. Do you want to make the most of your time? (Free Marash, from the scene: Replica, because I don't think the minister understood me very well.) ) Please use the same description in the Rules of Procedure as the replica. You have the right to a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20260	Thank you very much. I have the right to a replica, and I got it. Mr. Minister, I still can't understand, and I suppose neither are the people who are retired, who are in line with the positive regulations, thanks to the regulations, or what happened before the end of the year, when all those who didn't settle down until a certain period of time were written off interest, etc. And the people who paid the money then gained some status, so they gained pensioner status, so as pensioners, they made a promise through the regulations, that they would get 12,000 dinars per hectare, to make up for it, not to repeat what was invested. Now suddenly comes a regulation that says it will only get 30%, except for people with disabilities. Is that right? I don't know how this individual and other people who have retired, who have invested large funds, who have done everything in accordance with the law, will react, or will compensate for what the state has retroactively taken away from them by means of a regulation. I still don't understand it, and I don't think they understand it either. That if they betray someone under 40, they can get some funding, but they've already invested, that's one. Two, who's younger in the country? You know what an outflow it is, not to make a circus out of that story, the young from the village. Who's younger to be betrayed? That's all people know how to do and that's all they can do. They just want what's theirs and what the state has promised, I think it should meet, according to our story from the principle debate and that quote. Of course, people are willing to give up, they're willing to give in favor of the state, but they also expect that when the state promises them something and gets it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20261	Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20262	Unfortunately, we have to reopen this topic this afternoon, because the answers we get from the minister are uniform and identical to those in the morning, and yet I think we should make some kind of progress. What's open here is that disputed regulation of 14 May, in which you stated that agricultural pensioners only have the right to 30% of the money from the famous 12,000 dinars, which is promised to all agricultural producers. By this Regulation of 14 May, you are amending the regulation of 13 February 2009, where you make it clear in point 4, i.e. to indicate who has all the right, among other things, to agricultural pensioners. Watch out, the attitude of the state and someone who deals with agriculture. So on February 12th, a signal was given that agricultural pensioners are entitled to 12,000 per hectare. People went into labor, took diesel fuel, took seeds, bought fertilizer, because they believe that they have the right to return those funds to them in full, and now, three months later, they are informed, or they are told that they will not be entitled to those funds, or they will have the right to only 30% of those funds, or instead of 12,000 dinars per hectare, they will receive 3,600 dinars per hectare. That's really incorrect. You said they were entitled to agricultural pensioners, as well as other producers, on several types of income – income from contributions, but thank God it is not affected by the Ministry, but by their efforts, their work, the funds, the agrotechnical measures, and that depends on their contribution, but it is certainly their contribution. You're saying they're entitled to, or they're going to have pension income and, like all grandparents, they're going to have to take care of their grandkids, get some rest, that would be very good. I believe that's what people want, although we all know that people who work in the country for the rest of their lives, because they're just used to doing it all their lives, but they'd certainly like to rest with their children and their grandchildren, but can they do it with a pension of 8,500 dinars? I think in the pension structure over 80% is such agricultural producers or pensioners. So, with 8,000 dinars, it's hard for someone to relax. Take out the money, not enough to live, and make it work. If we know that there are about 200,000 agricultural pensioners, then it indicates that the state has decided to save significant financial resources in these three months, i.e. this regulation. This is about billions of dinars. If we know that the famous agrarian budget was foreseen by the 2009 budget -- 20 billion dinars, and it is cut to 16 billion, this way will take several billion from agricultural pensioners. At this point, I don't have a precise calculation, but I'm going to do it, but I'm sure it's a few billion dinars, and then it's a question of the principle of solidarity of the burden distribution of this financial economic crisis. This crisis must be handled by agricultural pensioners. That's a question you answer three or four times, and when your colleague Marash asked you that question, I asked you myself. So it's simply not fair, it's not solidarity and it goes to the heart of those most endangered, those people who, in such late years, process their country and make income. What's very strange, although it doesn't surprise me anymore is that PUPS is silent, that PUPS voted for such a thing, that it allowed 200,000 agricultural pensioners to be damaged by this regulation. This absolutely indicates that PUPS does not care about those whose votes it has counted on, whose votes it has also received and whose promises that they will be better participated together with the leading party in this coalition, which is DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20263	The word is Mr. Sinisha Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20264	During today's debates, you keep mentioning some of the problems and the party that you are talking about has the same participation as all the other MPs, as well as all the other political parties of this Parliament. The Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held six sessions, held on issues on today's agenda and on issues raised under this set of laws, including some questions related to the regulation that you are referring to here. You have not taken part in any session, even though you are members of that committee. You've been working hard not to give the quorum. You probably have your reasons, I'm not criticizing. Those are your reasons, I can only understand them. The question – why didn't you want us to discuss this set of laws in this place and the regulation you're talking about is the thing that we'll probably get answers through this debate in particular and probably find out who stood up for when it comes to a pensioner's party. The position of the PUPS was there, always will exist, and it is clearly determined and raised on all matters, including on issues related to agriculture, especially when it comes to the proposed set of laws, and especially when it comes to this regulation, which you are commenting on today, in the morning, in the afternoon, in the other way, but that is your party's position, I suppose, your opinion as well. We have opinions and we have made it clear, all should make efforts to preserve pensions on all grounds and jobs at the founding level. This is due to the crisis, and this is the government's response to the consequences of the crisis, i.e. the possible consequences of the crisis, especially when it comes to pensioners from agriculture. We managed to, together with the Government and other structures that worked on the issue, do a great deal to write off the debts that existed with all agricultural producers, especially farmers who are now retired, and are related to the debts they had on the basis of pension and disability insurance until 2008. The effects of that release and you say yourself that you don't know, so I suggested that you take off and see how much the funds were written off, how much it was really a benefit for whoever owed it, because if a farmer hadn't taken those funds out of his house and paid for what he owed for PIO, that means that he was left with them and that he could have them, as he felt appropriate. In addition, subsidies that lasted as long as possible were provided, probably because, as you said in the budget debate and yourself, they did not provide income as expected and something had to be reduced somewhere. They're not completely abolished, but they're reduced to some degree that's a bit bearable right now. Is that good or isn't it good? Well, I'm sure it's not good, but there'll be problems. Whether these funds will be found to be subsequently provided and to return or activate part of that regulation or the whole regulation, that is the second issue, will depend on the development of events that will come safely by the end of this year. When it comes to who should give answers to what questions, any party questions or questions you ask the party can also be asked to our party leadership in Resavska 14 or 24. Any questions relating to the Government can be asked to the Government, there are no problems, any questions relating to the Committee on Agriculture, come and talk to the Committee on Agriculture, I think you will find many answers there, whether you are satisfied or dissatisfied with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20265	Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20266	I had to answer for what Mr. Stamenkovic just said at the beginning, and during his address. Mr. Stamenkovic, I believe you noticed that at the very least today we were correct, so we didn't mention what was going on before you gathered the quorum for the Committee on Agriculture. Should I mention what happened last week? Should I mention what happened today? We haven't said that in a single word. I think it's extremely incorrect that you who make up the ruling majority of the eight that you need to have most on the board, to have a quorum, you only have four, not today, but last week, and in what way you've collected the quorum. We didn't want to open that question, nor will we detail it. I think it's extremely incorrect for you to say something like that. Secondly, as a PUPS representative, I hope this is what the pensioners looked at, so that they remembered at the end of last year that you were fighting for the interests of the pensioners, for the increase in pensions, so when we begged you to, until you voted for such a thing, influence that pensions do not increase linearly in the way they increase, but to help the most endangered, you continued to insist on it. You've heard the pensions of farmers who are retired. Not once during your address today have I heard any concern for them. You say come and get the questions, how did you say that? Well, we're not interested in the question, we're interested in the answers. Give a concrete answer whether PUPS was in favour of this regulation, did the government vote in favour of this regulation? How are you going to explain this to pensioners, farmers, that in February you promised to refund 12,000 per hectare, and to tell them three months later you only get 30%? That's what you explain, give the answer, not on which site and on which street we can come and drink coffee and on which board we can come when you're able to collect the quorum. I expected not a little more understanding from you, but a lot of understanding on this matter and support on this issue because of the views represented by your party. I didn't expect you to defend this more than those who signed this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20267	Mr. Zoran Nikolic. What's the base of the call? (Zoran Nikolic, from the site: Replica. There are no elements for replication. I think that you would practically take your answers or your replicas to participate in a way that would just be a repetition, if I get it right. You won't repeat yourself, let's see. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20268	Be careful, Mrs. Comić is in charge of creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, do not copy it in everything, especially in things that she does not do in the best possible way. So the basis for the replica exists. I asked Mr. Stamenkovic, the PUPS representative, to answer our question, because PUPS is an integral part of the ruling coalition, you have the burden of power. By your vote, by your decisions, by one regulation you decide the fate of 200,000 people. I asked a specific question, and of course I didn't get a concrete answer, nor will I get one. I got the answer and the charge that I didn't participate in the Committee on Agriculture and that I didn't give you the quorum. Well, of course, it's not my obligation to give you a quorum on a committee that can't discuss these issues. I had to wait for a session to ask this question and I want to ask it when the cameras are recording, when the public, when the very people who are threatened by this regulation can hear it. Besides, don't even wonder if you have a quorum because you have provided today's quorum with the participation of opposition MPs. Thus, the ruling coalition was unable to have a quorum on the Agriculture Committee today. But what is the essence, so you have this special responsibility because in the campaign you swore to the gray hair that pensions and agricultural pensions and everything else would be at 70% of the average personal income and that it would be the first decision. We see how the budget is regulated, pensions are frozen. Pensions on this basis alone this year will be 10% less thanks to inflation, will be frozen and next year, 25% of pensions will be cut by the end of next year because you are sitting in that government, but you have made false promises in that segment and deceived citizens, and you participate in the collective fraud that this government has devised. But when we talk about pensioners, I'm sorry, you're here, you claim to represent them. You don't represent them, because these poor pensions of 8.357 dinars will be 25% lower by the end of next year. This is where people said in February – you have the right to 12,000 per hectare, sow, work, so that a week ago or 10 days ago, instead of 12,000, you will be entitled to 3,600 dinars. Someone who counted on 200,000 dinars can now get 30,000 dinars. Someone with five acres or an average, 3.5-4 hectares counted on 48,000 dinars, and now they're going to get 14,000 dinars. You keep your mouth shut and think it's okay. This is where you accuse the opposition MPs of not participating in the Agriculture Committee. Of course we do not participate, but what is greater – you who participate, bring and support such regulations or it is the right thing to open this issue and warn farmers that the regulation cannot have a retroactive fact and that they have the right to sue the state and to collect funds, because no one can take those funds away from them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20269	The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Saša Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management want the final word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20270	First of all, I would like to thank all the MPs once again for their participation in the discussion. It really was a good discussion. We have heard a lot about the problem of the Serbian village and it is very important to discuss it in a proper way in parliament. I sincerely hope, once again, I would like to mention that the funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget will be significantly larger in terms of the agrarian budget, because this is the only way to help the farmer in Serbia. I sincerely hope that the funds that are identified now at this point will be able to pay off with the dynamics that we've been promised will be paid off, which is during the agrotechnical deadlines and in time for the autumn sowing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20271	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day in the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE LAW ON THE SAFETY OF HRANA (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the proposal of the law by the MPs: Miroslav Markić, Arpad Fremond, Milisav Petronijević, Nikola Savić, Mirko Munjic, Milan M. Nikolić, Zoran Popović, Dusan Marić, Vesna Marić, Tomislav Ljubenović, Milorad Krstin, Goran Mihajlović, Bojan Mladenović, Sulejman Spaho, Paja Momčilov, Nataša Jovanovic, Petar Jojić, Ljubiša Petović, Milan Avramović, Milan Škrbić, Zoran Kražović, Dujanović, Dušanka Plečević, Marko Milenković, Ožen Mihajlović, Ljubomir Kragović, Marina Toman, Marina Toman, Marina Ragović, Marina Ragić, Vjerica Rada Radažović, Milović, Miljan Živić, Miljanović, Miljanović, Miljanović, Drag. National MP Dusan Maric, written on May 13th 2009, withdrew the amendment to Article 6th point 6 of the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Radovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Avramovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment was jointly submitted by Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Milan Dimitrijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20272	Madam President, Mr. Minister, we have submitted the amendment to Article 1 thinking that the term "food security" is not our own language, and that it is more appropriate to keep the old term "food health care." It's not just a problem with this terminological mess. By reading further the law, when it comes to Article 11, we come to the essence of this change. What's the point of the change? The point of the change is that the Ministry of Agriculture becomes a central body dealing with food health, not the Ministry of Health. You are referring to the EU and their nomenclature, simply harshly proposing some laws and not adapting them to the spirit of our laws and our needs. Now I'm going to show you about how that works on the case already. Mr. Minister, I'm going to remind you of one thing. This is the date of the 23.7.2008 when the movement of consumers in Belgrade published the results of research into the quality of milk, which was carried out in co-operation with the Veterinary Faculty and which showed the bacteriological failure of milk among several producers. A few days later, Mr. Dusan Pajkic made a statement that the milk of these producers is bacteriologically correct. You have a simple thing – the Veterinary Institute claims one thing, one inspector claims the other. Is that possible in one country, is that confusing information for the public?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20273	Would you like to use the MP's time?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20274	If you have such a situation as you had, ask it a question – how can we trust you in your sincere intention to improve it by this law. Mr. Minister, I'm going to remind you of another matter, in your past term, you've been working as a Minister of Ecology on certain things that have not been in your jurisdiction. By dealing with these things and asking you for answers, we've been getting incomprehensible answers. Since when has the Ministry of Environmental Protection been competent to deal with mosquitoes and ticks? And what did you answer us for? That your ministry, which was then run by mosquitoes and ticks, was numbered at the beginning of the year, in January and February, by snow and ice. Who else in the world does that? You spent a million dollars on that, and you didn't give any explanation. Now you want us to believe that this law is good and that by this law, you're going to get a grotesque jurisdiction belonging to the Ministry of Health to regulate this area. Another one in a series of scams you as a member of the government, which is a characteristic of this government, that by pre-election promises and fraud it simply drives this people crazy and insane.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20275	Mr. Dragin wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20276	As for the case you said, first of all, the samples were not taken by an authorised inspector, but taken by representatives of the consumer association in an inadequate manner. As soon as we got a notice about this, the Ministry carried out the competent inspectors and carried out the review. The review showed there's no such thing as bad quality. If a poor quality were to be shown, of course they would not at any time be surrounded, but they would punish someone with poor quality of milk on the market. As you know, my personal relationship with milk producers is such that I think that the agricultural producer should participate more in profit, because if you look at the farmer getting 20 dinars per litre of milk, while the milk on the shelf in the supermarket costs between 65 and 75, somewhere and 80 dinar, that the gross profit ends with someone who shouldn't. As for the part that you were interested in, and I've already heard that you've discussed it several times in the Assembly about the treatment of mosquitoes in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during my term as Minister of Agriculture, I can tell you that, as you know, these are invasive species and that's why we were able to do this job under our jurisdiction. What I'd also remind you is that the figures you've been putting out are fake. Since you've been with us at the Ministry and you've received the full paperwork for insight, therefore you've probably misinformed the public in public and consciously. What is also important to show, and you laughed that samples were taken during the winter period about how many mosquito larvae there are in the rivers, or in standing waters where they lie, to inform you, considering that you probably don't know that part of biology, during winter mosquitoes are kept in larva forms. I'm guessing you don't think mosquitoes are falling off Mars, but they probably have to get laid from somewhere. Only during winter can you determine the number of larvae and only during winter can you see if the larvicide works or does it not work. It was also explained to you. I think it's extremely inappropriate for you to speak in this way about this, because you know that you've been given the entire paperwork to see, you know that public procurement has been carried out, you know that even three times public procurement has fallen. You even provided information that only one company had received mosquito treatment, which is not true, but that more companies had received in different parts of the Republic. What I can also tell you is that it cost the state as much as it cost for the capital a few years ago when your political option took part in such a single project.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20277	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Milos Aligrudic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20278	I'm going to take the opportunity to report on the same amendment very briefly, when Mr. Secretary has already replicated, I'd like to ask him if he can answer as quickly as he can, and about what the fellow MP was just talking about, how it came in, do you remember, if you could give us the information, when we're talking about selling that milk and the data you went out with, how did you choose the labs that did it? What labs are these, and how did they get their pick?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20279	He worked for the dairy institute, which is always doing that analysis, and it's a perfectly normal thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20280	Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20281	Mr. Minister, I know taxpayers' money doesn't fall from Mars. You, in your reply to me, have also referred to the law that is in the draft, and on that basis you have used these funds. I'll give you your answer with the signature, and you'll see what you've written. On the other hand, when I asked your assistant to show me and to give me an insight into the photocopy of the public procurement contract, on the basis of which these jobs were done, I was responsible that she should never give it to me and those contracts I never saw, nor do I have them in my file.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20282	Mr. Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20283	The moment you asked for it, it was a file owned by another ministry. Considering that I was already Minister of Agriculture at the time, I simply cannot give the documentation of the other ministry to anyone outside of it. He told his assistant to contact for photocopying them. I mean, I can't own any paperwork, because I was just a minister of agriculture back then. That's it and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20284	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a food safety law. In Article 2 after the word ''storage', the words 'and guard' are added. The SRS has a reserve under this food safety law, above all, due to the suspicious origin of meat that is 20 years old, deep-frozen, which mainly ends up in slaughterhouses across Serbia. Let's just remind ourselves of the chicken that was shipped to our market from Brazil, right across Kosovo. A number of monopolies have the possibility of supplying these suspicious shipments from South America, Spain, as well as from other European countries, which clean their 20-year-old reserves and sell them for nothing. When arriving at our national borders, phytopathologists usually pay little attention to the exercise of control, as tycoons are close to the regime and are protected from the control of their import goods. What happens next? All this junk just ends up in the meat industry. The owners of meat industries buy cheap raw materials, which are processed in the same way, and later products end up on our market. Just imagine how many children and under 18 bring this much waste into the organisms that are developing right now. That is why it is no wonder why young people suffer from various diseases. This irresponsible behavior and poor control of goods, which are currently feeding our citizens, we are in increasing danger to the health and future of our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20286	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment was submitted by Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've heard from previous colleagues who have critically referred to such a law, a law on food safety. Our gentleman, Milorad Krstin, explained this in detail and cited the reasons why we of the SRS are against the adoption of such a law, which, in our opinion, is not only inconclusive, unprincipled, but simply and dangerous for the citizens of Serbia. This law, which speaks of modified food and genetically modified food, is a legal project very interesting for all of us and the citizens of Serbia, and therefore is given special attention, because lately, especially in our 21st century, it is known that food is being manipulated very much, that food in our country, the state of Serbia, enters uncontrollably, by our environment, above all, the former republics of the SRJ. As a man living in the Raška area, where we directly connect with KIM, with a part of the occupied Serbian country, with Montenegro, Republika Srpska and it is normal that we are concerned in that area and area, because there is a special place where these goods are imported and entered uncontrollably. We had a case in the last year that tons of chicken were imported into the area of Novi Pazar from KIM, and originating in Brazil, where the examination of that meat found that it was infected and that it was deep-frozen and who knows how many years it was in that state. That's why we're asking for this article to be deleted, because by erasing this article, we wouldn't even be discussing it, and I think that this article is all of it, especially the 4th position that speaks of this modified food... (President: Excuse me, you are also using time from the parliamentary group. Here you go. But somehow in twisted form he speaks, which means that this amendment was tasked with correcting this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20288	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the proposal for a food safety law. In Article 4, point 15) is changed and it is said – the traffic on large is the handling of food, its processing, preparation and storage, distribution at the place of sale or delivery, for further sale or processing of food. In Article 4 of the proposed law, point 15 of the proposal of your law, there is a great deal of handling of food, processing, preparation, storage at the place of sale or delivery, for further sale or processing. Mr. Minister, I don't understand why the motionor didn't accept this amendment of mine, if I'm asking only to add the word "distribution"? So far, the matter, or distribution, has been dealt with by anyone who had the right and who had no right to do so. Here I doubt you're deliberately allowing us to have chaos in this matter again. We all know that distribution is the main link in the chain from field to table. The situation in this area has been chaotic for a long time. We in the U.S.S. are asking for it to be settled properly. It's simple to know who's selling what he's selling and who's buying what he's buying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20290	National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20291	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been talking for a year at this assembly pay phone about the problems of villages and peasants. It's a good thing today this agricultural size has gathered to answer questions, but I think we're going to part, because what they're explaining, I don't think they do. I will give an amendment to Article 4 which speaks of food production, where it is decidently said that the food intended for animals covers the necessary measures and conditions of risk control and animal safety insurance, in accordance with its purpose. I have submitted an amendment where Article 4 point 22 is amended and reads as follows: "the official sample is a sample of food or food for animals, or any other substance including those from a natural environment, which is important for the production, processing, transport and storage of food or feed for animals, or for the health of plants and the quality of food or food for animals, taken by the competent inspector or authorised person". With this amendment, I wanted to say that certain substances used in the production of concentrated food, such as fish flour, such as additives, are products of suspicious origin. We import them especially from the Latin American states, and the food producers, that is, mixers, use them here with us. Therefore, I have submitted an amendment requiring greater control of such import components for the production of food for animals, especially for animals used in human consumption, where my colleagues have explained and said in article 3 as to the quality and what consequences can arise if there is no adequate prevention of such or non-control of the bad components.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20292	The 4th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Ilic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20293	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a food safety law, to Article 6, so that Article 2 is amended and reads as follows: "The risk assessment shall be determined taking into account all scientific evidence available". The rest of the text is deleted. The amendment proposes that the risk assessment should only be determined on the basis of available scientific evidence. As proposed in the bill, it is concluded that the expert advice mentioned here puts itself above science because the advice here is qualified as particularly. The food safety law itself has some similarity to the product safety law, but here we see, there's always room for an additional different interpretation. In this case, it's this expert advice. The question arises – what if this particular opinion of the expert council is contrary to some scientific evidence, and it has been adopted to protect the interests of large companies, food producers, whose primary aim is to sell as many products as possible and to expand the market? It turns out that no service today, any authorised institution has done its job as prescribed under the law, and now as we see it, is likely to be done under this new law. Just to remind us how many agricultural products genetically modified varieties have entered the Serbian market and thus in some way endangered the health of the population. All this happened in early 2001 and beyond, and someone should be held accountable in Serbia. We have heard many examples of mayonnaise, canned food, children's food, chocolates, and so on. And it's completely incomprehensible that someone could have played that way with the health of the citizens. That is why I highly doubt, as you have stated in the bill, especially the opinion of the expert council, which is easily seen by the interests of large manufacturers and food traders.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20294	One minute more. Mr. Dragin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20295	First of all, I would like to say that the expert advice is composed exclusively of highly qualified, or scientific workers, so there is no one from the economy in the expert council. Besides, about some previous discussions, I'd like to say that distribution is traffic, so that's the same word. For clarifications, a distribution centre is written in brackets. The warehouse has storage conditions depending on the type of food, it is so called. temperature regimen. What's important is that there's no food that's coming in, or that's being imported without being controlled. Let's just say, the freshest example is that 21 tons of meat was destroyed, which was introduced illegally into the rat county. As for genetically modified organisms, as you know, we annuled the regulation a few years ago that allowed the introduction of genetically modified soybeans, and what's important is that last year we made 70 applications for soybeans that were genetically modified and those parcels were destroyed. It is also important to note that 46,476 food imports have been analysed since the start of this administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20296	The 6th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Representatives Milan Dimitrijevic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Radulović and Zeljko Tomic. Mr. Radulovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20297	And a few days ago, on May 15th, when we were discussing a set of these laws, I made an observation in the very way, I even told the minister that it was a shame that he allowed such important issues, where the strategy of our country's agricultural development is determined, and that there are very important issues about the lives of people who deal with agriculture, and we know that somewhere around 750,000 households are engaged in agriculture and about so many people are related to some other activities for agriculture, that we are discussing in a principled debate which I have not been wrong in the play, because it is literally a notion of what we are doing here, or what you are doing, which Serbian citizens do not deserve. I think these issues are very important to all citizens and that only the time of debate in principle, and also in particular, cannot meet those requirements and that they respond to everything that citizens expect to receive in response and as some guidance and guidance for a future time. I would point out that only last year about 6,000 hectares of agricultural land changed purpose and became land for other purposes and that we have one trend. At the same time, I would say that in some neighbouring countries there are incentive funds for the development of agriculture. For example, Croatia from the privatisation funds of its combinations of agricultural products it sold, e.g. The company that our fellow Member Jojic Agrokor often talks about is about 15m euros a year for agricultural subsidies. We abolished our agricultural combinations in 2009 the right to subsidies, so we don't have any of our hectares for any of the wrapped throat subsidies. It is something we should compare, and we often call, Mr. Minister, on countries in the environment and on EU countries as they behave, and quite the opposite of how they behave is exactly what our ministry and our government want. With this amendment, we want to draw attention to the importance of adopting food safety laws and that it is primarily in the protection of people's lives and health. The basic right of every man is to consume healthy food. We think that as part of the jurisdiction, if you look at the graduation of the authority of certain entities, it was logical to be the Ministry of Health in the first place, and then the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and then the national reference laboratories, and at the end of the lab. It is not fair to citizens and it is not fair to those who work, as a large number of opposition MPs have said, working from morning till tomorrow on their property, that this is the kind of relationship these valuable people have with the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20298	The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Fremond wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20299	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a food safety law. The safety of food and food on the territory of the Republic of Serbia shall be ensured by entities registered in the central register of facilities and other entities in the area of food and feed safety. Other entities referred to in Article 1 shall be the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, as a central body, the Ministry of Health, the National Reference Laboratory and laboratories. I have submitted an amendment to Article 11(2) to add after the word "organ" the words "or the regional secretariat for agriculture, water and forestry" and to add the words "and the regional health secretariat" after the term "healthy" after the term "health". The remark in Article 11 refers to part of the jurisdiction where the "ministration" stands, I suggest adding "the competent regional authority". Within the framework of the delegated powers of the AP Vojvodina and the province, monitoring should be carried out in its territory by means of its inspection. It is important for us MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians that the province has its responsibilities under all the laws in the area of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20300	Thank you, Mr. Fremond. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mr. Christin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20301	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry, the minister, as far as I can tell, is out. I just wanted to remind you that this is one very important law that you're about to pass. Since I didn't get it from the Agriculture Committee, from Madam Zecevic's secretary, what was done with Articles 60 and 61, and I will remind you that in 2004, 2005 and 2006, Agriculture Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic was a major advocate for imports of modified soybeans into Serbia. That's where the Machvani County is, i.e. The pairs and peasants were given to sow genetically modified soybeans, so that under pressure from the Committee on Agriculture, we from the SRS would be forced to adopt a regulation to genetically modified soybean, i.e. when he used the seed he had to destroy. Unfortunately, these couples and peasants did not receive compensation for this, but this is an indication that the minister can do anything, I am talking about Ivana Dulic-Markovic, who has been minister for three years, to be appointed coalition partners for the minister, and they knew well that she was an advocate of imports of these genetically modified soybeans and seeds. I don't think you'll make that mistake anymore. You are well aware that we have had an end to the Committee on Agriculture because of members 60 and 61, where I personally told the minister – if you leave these members in 60 and 61, my discussion as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group in all these 15 laws will only come down to genetically modified food and genetically modified organisms. The minister listened to that when I was talking about genetically modified organisms, and you corrected that mistake. We can't afford to import genetically modified food. I had a conversation with Agroziv, where I had a little discussion with the minister. They ask to ban imports of chicken from Brazil, coming from Macedonia, Kosovo and Metohija and Albania. Don't let me talk about the roads and how it's coming, and how it comes into our markets, shops, etc. So, they ask simply to prohibit illegal imports of Brazilian chicken meat, which are otherwise strained exclusively by genetically modified soybean, in addition to normally added food additives and tow chickens. So we'll wait to see what's up with articles 60 and 61, because I don't have them in front of me. You remember well that at that time we interrupted this Committee on Agriculture and it was said that this Article 60, in particular Article 61, which was submitted by SRS MP Mr Petar Jojic, where he said – placing on the market new food, genetically modified food and genetically modified food for animals. Gentlemen, in the United States he uses 60% modified food in his diet. That's why they're who they are, that's why they look what they look like, and that's why they think what they think. I think you'll understand this discussion I said. Once again, you must stand in the way of importing Brazilian chicken meat, which enters illegal flows from Macedonia, Kosovo and Albania, responsibly argue, and people from Agroziv also held me responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20302	MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 12th amendment together. Anybody want a word? Mr. Petkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20303	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry the minister isn't here right now. Apparently, Mr. Dimitrijevic hit the right topic, so the minister has a lot to explain to him outside this room. What I failed to learn from the inaugural presentation of the minister in the principle debate, which lasted 15 minutes and 45 seconds on 15 laws, is perfectly understandable that even Mr Dragin, in a minute and three seconds, cannot explain each law individually, is the division of jurisdiction provided for in Article 12. It's a bill of law. Since we prepared well for this debate, we studied the Croatian food law of April 2007, which is quite similar to this bill. We also have one presentation from the Bulgarian Ministry of Health. I am saying this because the minister said - that this bill should bring our system into line with the European Union system. I am interested, why are there certain differences – Croatia is an EU candidate and Bulgaria is an EU member, why is there no health ministry in the bill anywhere? On the basis of this bill, Serbia is the only country in Europe where the Ministry of Health has no control over food safety, its production, even food imports. I'm just passing on questions from people, doctors and employees to public health institutions. They simply do not understand why some jobs carry out phytosanitary, veterinary, agricultural inspections, and there are no sanitary inspections anywhere. I can't help but notice that there are no G17 Plus MPs in the hall tonight, given that they were in the previous session, when Ivana Dulic-Markovic was from G17 Plus, so Sasa Vitosevic was killed by the Minister of Agriculture, very interested in the development of agriculture, and they are nowhere today. Probably if Mr. Milosavljevic was involved in this job, he'd be here today, so he'd be one of their representatives. So, fellow ministers, tell him to provide support for G17 plus for this bill, they seem to be very jealous that there is no Ministry of Health in all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20304	On Article 12 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Arpad Fremond. Would you like a word, Mr. Fremond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20305	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, honourable associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12 of this Law, after the word "inspection" should be added and the words "agricultural inspection, i.e. a food technology engineer". In this article of the law, the work of the State Administration Authority within the meaning of this law in this area of food safety is carried out by a phytosanitary inspection, veterinary inspection, and we are asking that the agricultural inspection, i.e. the food technology engineer, be carried out. The behaviour, role and place of food engineering inspectors is important in all stages of food production and transport, as these are the most competent personnel for the establishment, management and correction of technological production processes, which is the basic condition of the production of safe food, and it is understandable that these experts are, in those cases, the most competent for food control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20306	Thank you, Mr. Fremond. Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here, you didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20307	In front of the SRS, I submitted an amendment to the proposal for a food safety law. Amendment 12. The government did not accept what it explained in a way – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the new food that has not been used so far, i.e. its impact on human health has not been established, the area covered by the Ministry of Health Affairs has led to the fact that the minister responsible for the operation of health is making the conditions for the production and transport of new food, as well as the way in which the food is controlled. Just in point 5), I stated specifically – that the control of children's products, baby food for breast milk, baby ingredients and salts for human consumption and the production of additives, aromas, enzyme preparations of non-animal origin and non-animal aids, as well as drinking water in original packaging (stone water, mineral water and spring water), as well as water for public supply of drinking water in all stages of production, processing and transport (trafficking, retail, importing at places of customs and export) – sanitary inspection. When I just cited this and what led me to endure this amendment, I had just been quoted by a previous period where we had imports of child food of suspicious quality, where after a certain time of control, when it was already released into distribution, the sanitary inspection found that it was food of suspicious quality, so it was coming back. So we had the same thing when it comes to child products, and a series of other products. This amendment I have submitted is a far better solution, more complete and defines the matter of the law. That is why I believe that this amendment, for these reasons, should have a better look at it, to read it better and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20308	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of Parliament Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 14th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the Head of the 18th Amendment, MP Vlad Milojkovic submitted. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Goran Mihajlovic and Marina Toman submitted. Mr. Mihajlovic wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the previous presentation, you have seen that exactly the largest number of amendments to the proposal for food safety laws have been submitted by the Members of the SRS, which speaks to the importance of how important our parliamentary group attaches food safety and the health of our citizens. In particular, my amendment concerns Article 18, which covers other entities in the power of food safety, and in this case national reference laboratories, whose establishment is foreseen during 2009 in order to carry out food safety tasks. It is specifically about national reference laboratories for food safety, then for animal health, for residence and for the national seed laboratory, and all laboratories are established with an appropriate act by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Currently, there is no single budget in Serbia for food security control, but the funds for these purposes are provided from the budget items of the two ministries, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Ministry of Health for the Affairs of the Inspectorate. These funds were covered by the budget plan for the current year in the amount deemed sufficient for these purposes. However, if these national reference laboratories are set up, it is certain that there will be a new budget rebalancing in 2009 because this will be a significant item, as it is planned to employ 15 new workers to carry out the work of these laboratories. If he adds to everything the fact that he's in progress. Tvining a programme to strengthen the institutional capacity of the food safety laboratory administration will further increase the funding that is difficult to predict at the moment. One thing is quite certain at this time, according to the old and well tried custom, or recipe in the Republic of Serbia – it will all have to be paid by someone else, and in this case it will be all entities operating in the food system, both small and large enterprises, which will have one additional obligation to control their products and control their so-called. critical dots that exist in a sensitive range of supplies. At the very end of the line, the entire company will pay our consumers, as has always been the case, because someone will have to make up for all the failures in this law, which are evident, because the positive effects of the laws that are being brought here cannot be justified by additional costs for its application. So, we believe that the goal here is to adopt the law as soon as possible, so that goods from the EU countries' markets, of suspicious quality, which my colleagues have already talked about, are finished on the Serbian market.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20310	National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mirko Munjic submitted to the title above Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. The proposal for a food safety law, which reads: “Article 19(1), point (2), is deleted. “ The amendment was not accepted in the government’s explanation: “The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the same member has already been accepted by the amendment of the People’s MP Miroslav Marinkovic. ” It is clear from the government's explanation that the practice of discrimination against the amendments submitted continues, and hence also by the MPs. This is the second time that at this session my amendment is not accepted, and that the same amendment by the ruling coalition MPs is accepted, for the first time in the traffic safety law, which was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina, and now the amendment of MP Miroslav Marinkovic of the DS is accepted. It is obvious that the regime is doing everything in its power to prevent the adoption of the SRS amendment at all costs, by providing amendments to the SRS to representatives of the ruling majority to sign them before putting them into the procedure. You thus prevent the public from knowing how many quality and successful amendments the SRS has submitted. Instead, the regime poisons Serbian citizens with false data -- that the only objective of the radical is to submit as many amendments as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20312	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20313	I'm sorry if the honourable MP got that impression. Given that I have looked at the content of the amendments you have proposed, allow me to accept your amendment in front of the Government and say that it will enter into the text of the law and as such contribute to making the law even better.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20314	The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a food safety law on Article 19, so that Article 4 of this article is deleted. I would like to remind you briefly that the position of the 4th member speaks of the fact that reference examinations can also be carried out in some laboratories that are not in our country's territory. I think this member should be deleted for a number of reasons. In fact, Serbia has a lot of laboratories and most of what is necessary to examine food safety can be done in our laboratories. True, it is theoretically possible to happen that some modern research, and we know that technology and science are making more progress, is not possible in one of our laboratories, but we also need to know that this country and this people don't have much and much to do, so they're going to live somehow and survive and because of some things that we can't do with us. Studies in laboratories in other countries, in my opinion, will do this country more harm than good. Simply, in our old custom, mentality and our manner, various abuses are possible. On the other hand, we know from similar things that these tests are extremely expensive, and what's most important, they can be unreliable. Imagine, for example, that a substance that cannot be examined in our country is found in the Milk chocolate, and a laboratory in Switzerland needs to conduct this examination. I really wouldn't believe in such an interrogation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20316	The title above Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th Amendment was submitted by Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Žutić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the title above Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On behalf of the head above Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 23, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20317	Mr. Minister, I am speaking to you, you were not here in my previous presentation, I conveyed what was happening at the time when the Minister of Agriculture of rows G17 was Ivana Dulic-Markovic, when she was appointed minister and was an advocate of imports of genetically modified soybeans. I transferred that the Agroziv Company and its leaders asked at the meeting I was at a few days ago, that as soon as possible illegal imports of Brazilian chicken were prevented, illegal imports. The illegal routes come from Macedonia, come from Kosovo and Albania. That's what I'm talking about. Here on Art. In 67, Mr Petar Jojic submitted, and we had this interruption on the Committee on Agriculture. You responded here, Mr. Minister, but I didn't get it from Mrs. Zecevic, the secretary of the Agriculture Committee, so I would ask you to explain to me for this article 61 just a little bit, since he's one of the next. As an authorised representative, I'd like to know what you've done here and what you've finished. I'm saying I didn't get the papers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20318	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go, Mr. Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20319	As you know, I'm claiming against imports, or cultivation of any genetically modified organisms. The part that defines the possibility of finding genetically modified organisms in Serbia is defined by the GMO Act, not the Food Safety Act. It is defined there and means that it is prohibited to traffic by any genetically modified organisms, they can be used for experimental and scientific purposes and in no other way, and thus it is impossible in any other way to use genetically modified organisms. What you asked, too, and about meat, I can say that 21 tons of illegally imported meat is removed from the market in Raška County, we really have this problem and we're doing our best to solve it through inspection bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20320	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Radovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Tomislav Ljubenović submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20321	Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed an amendment erasing the position of the fourth member of the 23rd Law, which provides for the formation of new state services. The SRS believes that in times of general economic crisis, it is socially unwarranted. We do not claim that in the long term it is not necessary and is not useful to establish some new administrations, councils or agencies. We believe that at this point, at the moment of the economic crisis, it is not a good solution. In order for the adoption of this law to result in an increase in food safety, it is necessary to ensure its implementation. I'm not optimistic about that. We have so far had 10 laws that regulated the area of food safety. However, we have a number of cases and a series of affairs that show that the competent state authorities, and above all the republican inspectors, have not done their job. I'm only going to name one case here for a short period of time. A few months ago in the Great Plan, it was discovered that a private company, which deals with meat processing and distribution, had been importing the wrong place from the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija and Brazil for months ago, without any paper, without any accompanying documentation. The question is, how was that possible? There is only one explanation that the competent republican inspectors have not done their job. These failures were not done for humanitarian reasons, the only logical explanation is that they were doing it because they were taking bribes and taking jobs from that dirty job. That affair happened two or three months ago. I've never heard of someone losing their job so far, and that's why someone in the D.O.D. was responsible. It's a serious crime against the health of the population.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20322	The title above Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Martinovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vlad Milojkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Ognjen Mihajlović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 25th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 26th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. The Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government didn't accept the amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20323	On Article 27, we have submitted an amendment believing that Section 3 should be deleted. Item 3 says - when the food referred to in Article 2(2) is part of a production party, series, shipments of the same type and category, all food in that party, batch and consignments shall be deemed not to be safe unless the rest of the production party, batch or consignment is determined in detail. We believe that one view in this article is absolutely unnecessary and not only that, but one such attitude in a member opens up a lot of possibilities for manipulation. I will remind Mr. Minister and again of the writing "Politika" since 3.12.2008. The title of this article is - State protection for private laboratories. We ask the question, who estimates that the rest of that food is safe? Who's going to judge that? Is it going to go according to this principle that "Politics" was also written by some daily newspaper? Do you think this is a serious matter in law? This opens up such manipulations that someone will assess whom Mr. Pajkic will give that authority and say that the food remains correct, if the whole chain is incorrect, then it is incorrect and must be withdrawn from production. It's the essence of the law. Who's the one who's gonna give that assessment? It's completely one member that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20324	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20325	I would just like to say that the same amendments are to Member Sreta Perić and Gordan Paunović-Milosavljevic, and I would like to say that the government accepts these amendments and we think they will contribute to the quality of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20326	So that amendment has become an integral part of the text proposal. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Dr Miroslav Marinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20327	I checked in on the last amendment, but you didn't notice me in time. I just wanted, if possible, to tell Mr. Marić first – you presented a very difficult feature for a veterinary inspection that does his job in a committed and valuable manner by the laws that already exist. The evidence is there's no spread of contagion. I would like to ask the Chief Inspector and Director of the General Inspectorate to make it clear that in this case the whole case has been prosecuted and that the criminal action has been placed on the market and trade in products that have not been reported, and that is not only a matter of veterinary inspection, but also of the police. As regards laboratories under this previous amendment, each laboratory shall qualify for the analysis and examination of accreditation and certification. Therefore, there is no state body that will determine which laboratory can, but there are EU standards that are set out in standards that it must respect in order to obtain accreditation. As in accreditation and methods used in diagnostics, so are accreditation of the diagnosis of certain diseases.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20328	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20329	After taking into account the content of the amendments to Article 27. The bill was submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Dimitrijevic, and which reads - Article 27, paragraph 3 is deleted, in order to improve the quality of the law, I would like to say that we accept the amendment. Thank you very much for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20330	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's MP Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20331	I'd like to thank Mr. Minister and at the same time tell my colleague that he didn't understand the essence of my exposure. No one was talking about the validity of the laboratory's accreditation, but he was talking about something else, one phenomenon that was already going on, and that's what I'm saying is that he would warn that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20332	The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by the Commissioner of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 48th Amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? Yes, please, Mr. Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20333	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Representation, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for food safety laws, to Article 48(2), which reads: food business entities are obliged to use a guidebook for a good producer and hygiene practice in the application of HACCP. The food business operator is obliged to have, in a permanent working relationship, a responsible person for the implementation of good manufacturing and hygiene practices in the application of HACCP. We ask this member of the law to add words after the words - the person - to the appropriate professional arrangements. The reference in Article 48 refers to the professionality of persons who will be responsible for the change of good manufacturing and hygiene practices in the application of HACCP, as it is very important to be the face of the food profession, because in practice, existing workers who are incompetent to perform these tasks are named. It's a particular problem in small and medium-sized production plants, where there's mostly no technologist engineers and no food profession master.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20334	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20335	In order to improve the quality of the law, we are prepared to accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20336	Thank you. Mr. Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20337	I thank the ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20338	Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Suleiman Spaho. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 57th Amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to the title above Article 59 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 59th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was submitted by Elena Christmas-Talian. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Jadranko Vukovic submitted to the title above the article of the 60th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 60th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20339	I have submitted an amendment to Article 60, Section 4 to delete. The minister said genetically modified food is food that is banned in Serbia's territory. The attitude towards agricultural products that are genetically produced, such as certain genetic products, such as soybean, is also prohibited, as my colleagues have said. As one of the major producers of soybeans, I must point out that the difference between modified soybeans and soybeans not modified in laboratories is only in the presence of total herbicides. You'll explain to me if there are any other methods to detect the difference between modified and ordinary soy at the time of admission to certain warehouses. In the seed, or soybean product, the presence of total herbicide and matter shows how many total herbicides are present in soybean seeds, while in the ordinary soybean soybean soybeans are not present, because you yourself know which herbicides this common, our domestic or seed soybean is sprayed. This is important and therefore I ask that this Article 60 should be deleted, although I have stated that item 4, because you said so yourself, that modified food produced or imported must be banned, that is your position. It's impossible for any technical processing to prevent or reduce the number, the amount, and you're going to tell me whether I'm right or wrong, the herbicide, the total herbicide that sprays on the surfaces. That's what I asked in the labs, which you mention, how and in what way do they reveal whether the soybeans are modified or not, then they told me in the presence of herbicides.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20340	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20341	Generally, the difference between standard soybean and genetically modified is determined by the presence of certain genes. It's the most common gene that leads to resistance to total herbicides, not based on the presence of herbicide itself. The Pi-si-ar reaction establishes genetic modification. In this way, it is done, not on the basis of the presence of herbicide itself, or the quantity of herbicide. As far as the whole issue is concerned, I want to tell you that the proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms, which is also being discussed under these 15 laws, prohibits the release, cultivation, import and all other genetically modified organisms, in fact only allows for their use for scientific purposes, and therefore there is no need to discuss it under this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20342	Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nikola Žutić submitted to the title above article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Radica Jocic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 61st Amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20343	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is something very important to say that it is an area which is the only trustee of the Republic of Serbia in these times, which is agriculture. In particular, it should be pointed out that only the Ministry of Agriculture has come before the MPs and provides explanations and answers to parliamentary questions, which is not a practice by other ministries and other ministers. It is not the minister's praise, but what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing should be done by other ministries, not running away from the MPs. What's important, I just wanted to point out this time, since regarding agriculture and the gardener's industry, in time, back in 1919, our famous and greatest scientist of all time, Michael Pupin, at the Congress of Associates in Belgrade, said, "A friend of mine from Vienna writes and sues himself like this – we have grains and corn, barley and oatmeal and every other food in abundance, but we don't have money. We're not hungry for food, but we're hungry for money. The hungryest among us is the peasant, although there is food and livestock in abundance, there is still no money beaten. When a peasant suffers from a cougar in money, they all suffer from the same cougar. It's a disease that also sickens our trade, our industry, our agriculture and our entire state apparatus." Whenever I remember (he's talking now), the sweets and scents of Idol plums and cherries (where he was born), peaches and crayons, apples and pears, grapes and other fruits, which I enjoyed in my childhood and in the older years during the visit to my native village, always strengthens my faith. These sweets and that smell are not even in California, or Florida, or in other southern parts of North America. I know that fruit and vegetables can't take first place in relation to other parts of Serbia, such as grapes dodgy, negatin, sremish, etc., and what can I say about tattoos and methochial apples and pears, and peaches and plums and other Yugoslav fruits, which are not flat in all of America, even less in North America. Special attention, Madam President, if you allow me just two more or three sentences, then our famous and unconquered scientist, Mihajlo Pupin, devotes fruit and vegetables, gardening, and that agriculture is introduced into teaching, as a teaching course in primary and secondary schools, and that especially teachers must be educated to teach in primary and secondary schools and prepare staff to deal with agriculture. So agriculture is the only trust. I would just ask, in the end, Mr. Minister to answer me if he can, were they to initiate procedures in local self-government on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia to return pastures to the villagers and peasants, given the provisions of the 1992 Law on the return of pastures to villages?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20344	The 63rd amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20345	I thank Mr. Peri Jojic for his fine discussion. What I'm saying is that the Law on the U.S. and pastures, which defines the return of mornings and pastures to villages for use, is in the jurisdiction of the second ministry. It's not our ministry resolutely. What I generally think about that law is that he has one small mistake, which is to mention the village everywhere. The village cannot be recognised as part of the local self-government, unfortunately. For this reason, it would be far better to find a term in the law itself – a local community, which defines a particular village as a meat community. We discussed this once. But in general, some local self-governments have set out to implement this law, some not. This is within the jurisdiction of the local self-government itself, to implement the law, rather than the proposing itself, or the ministry responsible for this law cannot affect it. It is therefore competent to local self-government to operate in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20346	Just sign up to give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20347	Mr. Minister, I understand and know this law, and I know that law, as you well know, which was taken from 45 and 55, when the pastures were taken from the peasants and passed into the general social property, but this 1992 law normised that the villages must be returned to pastures. But there's this obstacle, there's been an abuse of pasture by individuals on a local level and by some combinations, which have now crossed into the hands of certain tycoons. These tycoons are now entering the pastures, preoring, paying no one, as is the case in the territory of South Banat, especially when it comes to Pančevo, Kovin, Kovacica, Opovo, Landište, Alibunar, White Church and Vrsac. There's chaos. That is why, in my opinion, the ministry could make a big contribution, look for reports on the fate of pastures and ask for a report on whether the procedures were initiated by local self-government to get those pastures back. They're huge, 200-300 acres in, people in, toots and use, they don't pay anybody anything. That's why I think the Ministry would make a big contribution, big areas are at stake, it's a big benefit to individual agricultural producers, especially cattle farmers, for meat production and cattle treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20348	The 65th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 68 by MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment, MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment, MP Vesna Maric submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 69. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Miroslav Marinkovic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 90th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20349	Article 90 bears the title – The entry into force of this law, and the bill states that this law, as well as the other laws or proposals of the laws adopted in this House, generally enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of Serbia, with the fact that a certain part of the law adopted in this House and some members and their application has been delayed, or here it says that the introduction of the NASSR to a rapid notification and alert system, emergency measures and crisis management, as well as to monitoring, has been applied since January 2009. Please, this is the end of May 2009. I don't see how Mr. Dragin thinks this is going to go retroactively five months back. We have a minister who often comes to this high house and often says for himself – I am not Harry Potter. I don't know if Mr. Dragin thinks he is Harry Potter if he thinks that the law or part of this law can be applied five months ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20350	Mr. Secretary has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20351	That is to avoid being in contradiction with the veterinary law, which says it has to be applied since September 1st. For that reason. You can look at the veterinary law, and you'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-05-25-0.u20352	Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dr Sasa Dragin, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you for your cooperation. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, or more than a third, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notification in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: My card is not working again.) ) Press that central button to give you the word.
