ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26083	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, may God forgive us for working in the world for a week, and in slave property time we've worked for a maximum of 12 hours, but at this time of democracy we have to work for 16 hours, and every day, without rest. Okay, since we're in a hurry, probably in Europe, we need to pass laws at the will of Europe. In Article 3, Mr. Minister, item 1, after point 5), where you are saying what is all the state diameter and you are saying that these are professional transactions in the area of the cadastrian barrier, the diameter in the procedure of the arrangements of the ground territory by massing, the diameter of the water, the topographic diameter, the diameter of the state border, we believe that under point 6) should also stand "the diameter of the underground installations", because underground installations are of exceptional importance for the state diameter and are necessary to be marked in this article. You, I suppose, under the diameter of the water, mean the diameter of the underground installations, because in the previous article, you talk about what a catastrian water plan is and that this is a two-dimensional display of the water at the level of the state projection. We don't think it's comprehensive and it doesn't mean everything that underground installations are. We know who did it so far – Geokart, that it's even data that represents a state secret and that it bothers us at all that you're changing the concepts already in this matter and that the data on immovableity should be in one place...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26084	Thank you, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. The 4th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. (Gardana Pop-Lazic, from the scene: "Please don't interrupt me." )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26085	Please don't rush us. I woke up at seven o'clock. I'm in no hurry. I want to complete the explanation of this amendment. It's our time, we have it, and don't warn us when to interrupt or shut us down. Data on immovableity, in our opinion, should be in one place. It could be a cadastre, it could be a land book, it could be a garter. You know how, our peasants are used to that name. For example, the Zemunite, who was born in Zemun, will tell you, I am the Zemunite. It's something that's been accepted for centuries, and because of that in principle, we told you yesterday, it bothers us that you're introducing new terms that are not our people and that will cause some confusion and delusions in our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26086	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. According to her amendment, you didn't apply. (The Faith of Radet, from the place: "Oh, is anyone answering?" I asked if anyone else wanted a word. He doesn't want anyone. Is there another word he wants, and here I ask again on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Do you want longer than the time foreseen for the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26087	That I'm not going to depend on me in advance, but on how much discussion I'm having. I'm not a student or a chess player that I have to push exactly when I need another move to take. Please don't get nervous. We started a session in abnormal nervousness. If you're in a hurry, we're in no hurry. Have we shown that we can work up to twelve nights and one night? Let us work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26088	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, no one's showing any anxiety except you. Please continue, you've got your word and keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26089	You're making me nervous. Get me working conditions so you don't get nervous either, and neither do I. In Article 4, which speaks of the cataster of immovableity, at the end of sub-point 3), you say that the cataster of immovableity also represents the specific parts of objects that make up the building continent (room, business space, garage and others), and in point 3 of this law, the buildings of all kinds, economic buildings, objects of culture, sports and recreation, shelters and other building facilities, we think you should delete this 'other construction facilities'. If you have listed all types of objects, the law is inadmissible indeterminately marked, which always leads to abuse in the application of the law. Someone here yesterday was talking about, say, rafts. He was right to say that, because the owners of the rafts and how interested they are to have their status resolved. The law does not tolerate any indeterminate markings. If you're going to a tax-list, then you have to make sure you professionally list all kinds of construction facilities, so that there's no point in interpreting those who apply the law. Believe me, the hardest thing will be for those who apply the law. I'm afraid, here, if I were them, given the law we discussed yesterday, I don't know if I'd dare give up any building permit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26090	Mr. Alexander Vlahovic has a word. No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Mr. Sreto Peric signed up. Are you going first, Mrs. Pop Lazic or Happy? Who's going to be the first of you, just tell me? Mrs. Pop-Lazic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26091	In Article 5(4), after the word "Serbia" the words "as well as the means of gifts" are deleted. I have to read this whole attitude (4). It is about the programme and the work plan and you predict that the implementation of the programme and the work plan is financed by the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as the funds from the gift (donation). We believe that the state diameter and the cadastre are of such exceptional importance to the state that it is inadmissible in law to provide for the possibility that individual tycoons or representatives of the construction mafia by means of funds and donations finance this state job and thus achieve certain rights for themselves. If you want to take something from the tycoon, I'm not saying you shouldn't, give them assignments to build some kindergartens, make some schools, let them leave something to our people like the rich people used to leave their jobs behind, but you can't afford such an important state job to allow it to be done by the means of rich people, to expect donations for that job. If you don't have funds in the budget for something like this, although we don't see it from the reasons you've given under this law, then you shouldn't have proposed at this point the amendment of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26092	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26093	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it doesn't bother the MPs of the SRS to work Sundays and work nights, but I just think I've lost my calendar, that today might not be Sundays. You just called Mr. Vlahovic, he's not even aware he might be here, he says - no, I'm not. Let's go back to the amendment I submitted to Article 5.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26094	Mr. Peric, don't characterise your fellow MPs as disorientated persons. We're all very oriented, and we're all fine. That's not right. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26095	I am not a qualified MP, but I am present every day in this assembly when she works, when she works, and I haven't had a chance to see so many MPs from the post, but it doesn't matter at all. I'm glad I'm having an argument in front of an O.R. like this. I have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of the Law on State Prime Minister and Catastro, and I have proposed that Article 5(7), which says that the annual work plan is to be published on the Internet stations of the Republic Geodetic Council, add "and to the means of public information". In an explanation, the proposer is urged that other state authorities also publish their work plans and programmes only on site pages and as if that is enough. I'll tell you what happens in practice. Serbian citizens cannot exercise their rights, which is initiated by the Republic of Serbia by the allocation of some funds, only because they are published on the site, and if they were publicly published then the situation would be quite different. I have a feeling that this seems simple for reasons that Serbian citizens would not exercise some of their rights, because only in those cases, if they are familiar with something, can they apply to certain things and compete. Serbia is both that place and that village, and it just happens to exist in the municipality from which I come from a village – since the next amendment is mine, I suggest I speak at the same time for four minutes – in which the student who attends this school is the best and the worst, only for the reason that there is one student. We had the opportunity to hear at a session that was under way, and when it was debated about educational laws, how many written, or illiterate citizens of Serbia, and how many are in a position to use computers at all. For that reason and for practical reasons, this should also be published in the means of the press. Now I want to talk about the amendment that the SRS has submitted to Article 8 of this law, and here it is about professional affairs done by the state administration. In particular, the maximum number of tasks provided for in this article are intended to be carried out by the Geodetic Institute, but in exceptional cases by some other authorities, and Article 8(3) provides that geodetic works, topographic maps, conditions of 25,000 and smaller proportions, as well as the keeping of specific records of immovableities, which are carried out, produced and served for military purposes, shall be carried out by the body responsible for defence operations, in accordance with specific regulations. We suggest adding "this law" and remaining special regulations. It is illogical to comply with a certain law without the provisions of that law to comply with those laws, and therefore we propose that if the military authorities do these tasks, they should also be subject to specific regulations and, of course, to the provisions of this law to apply to those bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26096	The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who explained this amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26097	Article 10 refers to the section of the Republic Geodetic Institute. In point 8, item 1, which reads "issuement and confiscation of the power to record from the airspace of the territory of the Republic of Serbia for the needs of the state diameter", we believe that the words "issue and confiscation of authority" should be replaced by the words "engage of qualified organisations". We're asking a question: who's been doing it so far? So, there are already qualified organizations, and the Republic Geodetic Service itself, Mr. Minister, has no reference for issuing and withdrawing powers to record from the airspace, so it cannot even issue such powers. Unless you think you have to give this job to Stanko Subotic Canet, who has planes, or Zeljko Mitrovica, that his planes are doing it, and we have JAT planes that have done it before, military planes, agricultural planes, etc. I think the amendment is in place. You will bring into an uninvited situation the Republic Geodetic Institute, which is not licensed to issue a licence, and then the ones you will license. Why would you do that if you already have those who are capable of doing this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26098	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26099	The jobs of diameter and catastra are state affairs. They are in the jurisdiction of the Department of Geodetic Works, i.e. the Geodetic Administration. I have proposed that point 14 of this article be deleted on behalf of the SRS, where it is provided for in the competences of the Geodesy Institute and the assessment and management of the value of the immovableity. We believe that the Law on Expropriation, the Law on the Prime Minister and the Cataster, the Law on Planning and Construction should have certain provisions that are common, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expansion Act was on the agenda of the Assembly several months ago and there is a provision for an assessment of immovableity. We also propose to delete this now, and we think that the tax administration would significantly better assess the value of immovableity and that what is in the jurisdiction of the Geodesy Institute should be in the jurisdiction of the tax administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26100	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26101	I suggested erasing part 17) and that part relating to the formation of a committee for the standardisation of geographical names. This Article 10 refers to the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute and provides a wide range of business, geodetic works and the affairs of the state administration carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute. Among other things, there are business of cadastrian and commercial diameter, then business of expert supervision of geodetic works, issues of licensing and withdrawal of licenses, registries, classification and bonding, evaluation and management of immovable property, etc. If such complex tasks can be carried out by the Republic Geodetic Institute, they may also be able to perform the tasks of standardisation of geographical names. Why is that why a new commission needs to be formed? The SRS opposes the establishment of a committee to standardise geographical names and we believe that it is absolutely unnecessary and that it would be just another burden for a narrow RS budget anyway. Therefore, keeping records of geographical names and standardisation should remain in the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute and therefore I think that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26102	Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Mrs. Veronica Radeta. You have 30 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26103	Mr. Minister, there is an impression that your associates have not explained enough to you the importance of the national diameter and the catastra for one state. I understand that you as a doctor can't understand it properly, but those people around you should have turned your attention to that. There are several members, you will hear during the debate, which are quite dangerous. One of them is this Article 10, 23) point, where you say, among other things, that the work of the Institute and the provision of services from the Office's department is within international co-operation. We suggested that we add here - providing services only on the basis of ratified international credit agreements. You can't give state diameter and cadastre data to anyone. For example, Minister Sutanovac can't, when he goes to NATO to provide data on state diameter and catastra, because most of that data or state secret or private property, and state or public property, there are also underground cadastres, underground installations, various military facilities, various state-protected and other law-protected facilities. These data, within the meaning of this Article and this point, can only be provided in the part necessary for the approval of a loan, for certain mortgage loans from abroad, etc., and not in such a flat-rate manner that any data from the catastra can be presented in the context of international co-operation. I would ask you to follow us a little bit, Mr. Dulic, that, as you did yesterday in the morning, you will participate in the work and accept this amendment, believe me, it is useful.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26104	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26105	This is an amendment submitted to Article 13, concerning the issue of work licences and conditions for issue. The amendment consists of three parts, so maybe that last one influenced that you didn't want to accept it, because I really don't understand why such a clearer definition of the obligations of the Republic Geodesy Institute is not accepted. In the position (2), where it says that the Office's licence is issued with a solution instead of a point, we have put those solutions to be issued within eight days of the day of submission and I do not see what is controversial. We simply think that time should be given, that eight days is quite enough and that it is quite acceptable. You said you could issue a solution. We asked for a change to be put on - a solution is issued, and there we do not see what is contentious, because if someone says that a solution can be issued, then the people make a good comment – it can, and it does not have to. However, when someone forms a company and sets aside significant resources, equipment and employment for a certain number of people who are scheduled, the structure of education provided for by this law, all tax deadlines start to run and the obligations they have towards the state, and this law does not define, so that deadline can be longer than a month, it can be a month, two days, so we begin to interpret that they have some sort of exclusive right to issue a permit and when they issue a permit. I think this amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26106	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26107	We accepted this solution through the second amendment, because one amendment tried to solve three things, two of which were unacceptable, so the second amendment accepted this first segment, and the other two couldn't, unfortunately. In fact, the first and the second are accepted, and the third is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26108	The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go, Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26109	Article 13 provides for conditions under which a geodetic work licence can be issued. In your view (4) you say that, among other things, this public undertaking, the second legal entity, the beneficiary of the appropriations, which can only be issued a work licence for the works referred to in Article 12(3) of this Act, which are in the function of carrying out the work for which it is established. Article 12(3) refers to the implementation of geodetic works in the maintenance of the immovableity catastra and the maintenance of the catastra lines. We ask, and by amendment, we ask that, in front of the words, a public company also stands the authority of the municipal administration. We're wondering why it couldn't be an organ of the municipal administration. Why not reduce the costs of local self-government, which according to the rules and have permanent employees from the geodetic profession who can get a license, so that they do not pay needlessly to another legal person to do their jobs for the needs of local self-government? We have experience that in 1997 in Zemun we did all the jobs related to the diameter of the building land in those three huge settlements and very quickly with three geometers and two dystoms that we bought, I don't know if you know what a dystom is and how much it costs, it doesn't cost much, but we managed to do that job. This is how we'd have to pay someone else. For reasons of rationality and savings, we believe that local self-government could also do so from its own resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26110	The National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted the title above Article 14 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26111	The title above Article 14 is deleted. It's about the geodetic license. This amendment draws attention to the unnecessary provisions laid down in Article 14, as well as to the conditions for the issue of a geodetic licence, because by issuing a geodetic licence, we will, in our opinion, create a narrow circle of party people who, as well as in the case of licensed bankruptcy managers, will most often work against the interests of interested parties in the process. The person of the geodetic profession with completed appropriate school, working experience, passed a state exam on us can carry out these jobs without additional licenses. We don't even know what's gotten you into a license mania. We're just waiting for you in Parliament law to prescribe that we also have to license MPs. You've already licensed, and you've licensed the educators, the bankruptcy managers, and who you haven't already. Now you have to go here. The worst part of it is that licensing takes someone else. Someone comes on the side or gives you money to do it, then there's the lecturers some third and the money comes back to whoever gave it and the money.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26112	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Members of the 14th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26113	Article 14 concerns the issue of geodetic licences, i.e. geodetic licences themselves. With this amendment, consulting with people who have geodetic firms and who have explained to me what the situation is on the ground, I asked for the third-row license to be introduced and to simply comply with some factual situation on the ground. According to my data, there are currently around 800 geodetic organisations operating in Serbia. That's some information we have. Maybe that number's bigger. Introducing such strict rules for licensing, we will simply be an enormous number, or a larger number of these 800 geodetic organizations, in fact, force them to shut down because the founders are geodetic technicians who know their field work very well, at the very end of the line of work on the ground, are on the market, so they are also fighting for profit and profit. The direct consequence of this kind of licensing is the accumulation, as far as I can see, and that would be good to hear from the minister to give us an additional explanation, because it is estimated that in this way this figure with 800 companies will be aware of some ten, which will have the right and opening of businesses in smaller places, and very possibly smaller places, such as Koceljeva, Bojnik, Lebana, where there are now some geodetic companies, will remain uncovered, so that people will have to solve their needs in larger cities of the type of Nis, Shabac, etc., which in any case will make business difficult for these citizens in smaller environments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26114	The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26115	In Article 17, you prescribe conditions for the performance of geodetic works and only in the position (6) I wanted to draw attention to the exceptional, as you say, of the position of the 2nd member, when the cadasar of immovableity is established according to land, land books and deed books, i.e. intabulation books, data of a co-massion which is not implemented in a land-based catastrus, i.e. land-book, geodetic works, I say in this amendment, performs a cataster service on the territory of the municipality, and you say, it can perform a geodetic organisation that meets the conditions of Article 3, which is that has at least two employees of the geodetic profession, of which at least one of which has a geodetic licence of the second order. Now we've learned that there's also a first-row license and second-class license. This is why we believe that these jobs so far have been successfully carried out by municipal monasteries and that it is unnecessary to make additional costs by hiring some other organisations to perform geodetic work. I don't know why you're humiliating those geometers who've been doing these jobs so far. Now you're going to force them to do this kind of licensing and you're going to give some new geodetic organizations the opportunity to meet only these conditions that have two employees of the geodetic profession, that they've been licensed, so they've paid the license, and they can't perform already existing and trained civil servants. You keep saying that there's no money, that we need to rationalise, that we need to hire every civil servant. You're taking a job with a civil servant like this. He's out of a job or he's going to go down the street, but some other private guy, who's going to start this organization, is going to do this state job.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26116	Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Mrs. Veronica Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26117	The proposed standard of Article 18 is really unsustainable. There's talk of a geodetic organization's duty and you say, ''in the process of maintaining a straggler of immovableity, it is necessary to accept the party's request to perform geodetic work on the territory of a local self-government unit where it has its seat, or it must not refuse the request without a reasonable reason. ''There is therefore no legitimate reason for any body, an organisation that performs a held job, in this case a geodetic organisation performs part of the state's work; any request must be accepted. He can't because an officer on sick leave hates working, and so on. that the request is not accepted. I can file a request for a geodetic organization to go out into the field to measure the plot, for example. 546/3, Mr. Oliver Dulic's property, and to say that I want it transferred to the Lady of Radet's name. Such a request, no matter how pointless, has to be accepted, and then whoever does the state's job or lets me know it's pointless, or makes a solution, a conclusion, rejects, refuses. So there's no legitimate reason for repealing every citizen's constitutional right to ask for whatever comes to mind. The body works, or whoever works for the state, such as the geodetic organization, will consider assessing, assessing and informing the applicant. Please tell Mr. Dulic that this amendment must indeed be accepted. Nothing spoils the law, but it removes an incredible confusion, and I don't think there's any regulation that contains a reasonable reason not to accept any request.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26118	Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Martinovic, you want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Mirko Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26119	In Article 18(4), I assumed that it would be deleted. What you have provided for in paragraph 4 of this article, whose erasure I have sought, represents a clear example of how you change the thesis of those persons to be protected in this procedure. So instead of protecting the party in the process, you are trying with this attitude to protect the person doing certain tasks that he does. Here's why. The geodetic organisation, therefore, accepts the party's request to perform geodetic work. Once the request has been accepted, it should be a holy letter for a geodetic organization. However, no, you predict that a geodetic organization can make a solution to change and because of certain, as you say, justified reasons. I understand that these legitimate reasons are for example. The state of war, to be an earthquake, to be, not to God, some elemental or major disaster, but to justify the reason, as you predict, to be an employee's disease, a absence from the job of an employee or his prevention to work, is really not understood. If he is ill, if he is absent or prevented from working, let his boss do the job, or let one of those 200,000 you promised in the election campaign, and there are a lot of young and professional people who can really do these jobs in quality. That's why I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26120	The 19th amendment was also submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26121	This is about the duty of a person with a geodetic license, as well as material protection in some form of satisfaction of the party in the process. So the dissatisfaction shown in the process of performing geodetic work is very common. With this article, you will only encourage it and speed it up. This is the dissatisfaction of parties in the process and the fact that a responsible person who does not perform such works in accordance with this law or his or her actions speeds up illegal work. So the point is that this person compensates for the damage caused by such an act or not. It is clear that by performing certain tasks, whether by doing or not, this person can cause damage to foreigners in the process. Then what's going on? Nothing to anyone. That damage must be compensated. You seem to be meeting only some reproof, or, I don't know, by reducing the rating from the government or some other satisfactory measure, but you still need to predict here as a compensation measure of damage. We predict that the official person who makes any of the violations of the laws of this law, which causes damage and damage to strangers, is the damage of compensation. This is the most correct solution – the protection of the party in proceedings and in this case and I think this amendment is entirely meaningful.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26122	The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26123	This amendment shall require a reduction in the time limit in conditions where the geodetic organisation does not, without justifiable reason, carry out tasks in the maintenance of the catastra. I therefore asked in Article 20(3) of point 3) for a period of 60 days to be replaced by a period of 15 days. I'll explain. This is one of the conditions for stopping the license. Therefore, only four conditions are left to the Bureau, i.e. only four reasons under which a geodetic organisation can withdraw the licence. One of the reasons or one of the conditions is that the geodetic organization does not perform geodetic work to maintain the catastrophe for more than 60 days. Indeed, leaving a 60-day period leaves one long term. It's too long for 60 days. Why 60 — often 15 days is a lot to do, even within 15 days big consequences can arise. The deadline of 60 days may be a relic of the past related to excessive, excessive bureaucracy, administration, etc. Reduce that deadline from 60 to 15 days and in practice you will see how much better this will give results and effects.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26124	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26125	In Article 25(3), I predicted that it would be deleted. When you want something to pass, which will bring about the possibility of manipulation tomorrow, you foresee it as in Article 25(3), whose erasure is required. So, you predict that the work of a smaller volume, the work of less complexity, is done on the basis of a project task that provides and confirms the investor. It's obvious that there's one possibility left here, one space for manipulation. The question arises where are all the jobs that are involved in small-scale business and less complexity? Who counted them, and what are these jobs of less complexity? Can they in practice be more or less complex? Here, at will and discretion, it is left to the investor to determine the project task and to verify it after the end of the situation. It is the investor who will determine the task and who will at the end of the task confirm the situation. How will you see when they split the money? You don't want to see it for sure or maybe you don't want to see it. Is there really a question here who's protecting himself with this article? I think most cases are protected by those who actually do cloudy things in these jobs. It is therefore necessary to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26126	The 27th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26127	With this amendment, we propose that the geodetic organization cannot carry out a certain type of work. Article 27 is set out in Chapter Three, where technical documentation, design, performance, professional supervision of construction work is discussed. For us, the state diameter and catastre is a business of a couple of excelances of importance for the state and for all its citizens. What's in Article 27? The idea project is subject to the expert control of the Revizione Commission, which is educated by the Institute. The main project is subject to technical control. Item 3: Technical control of the main project for the implementation of geodetic works under Article 25 of this Law is carried out by the Institute, followed by what we propose to delete, ''or geodetic organisation designated by the investor and which meets the conditions laid down in Article 17 of Article 1 of this Act'. Article 17 provides for the conditions to be met by a geodetic organisation. Why do we suggest that this be deleted, or that the geodetic organization cannot do this part of the job? We know that in Serbia, a large number of cooperative companies are owned by people who operate certain state bodies and are now favouring their businesses. We don't think there can be any shortage of expertise here, but because of any connection, we think that geodetic organizations shouldn't be doing these jobs. I would suggest something to the minister if he were here, if this were to be said quite seriously, ''he keeps records of the opening of health institutions, hospitals, etc.'"And in that case, if we knew exactly which facilities were open, we wouldn't have had Gilas and Mr. Dacic open the same hospital. It wouldn't be bad for you to think about it and accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26128	Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Vervain Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26129	Article 28 and this view that needs to be deleted says – that the diameter of the water and the construction of geodetic bases for the needs of various types of projects in engineering and technical areas is carried out by a geodetic organisation. We remind you that the geodetic organization is a private firm and that this business cannot be done. That is, gentlemen of the Ministry, even though you said it wasn't a state secret, it was either a state secret or a business secret. Ask your colleagues from Geokarta, who will take over after this law – is the party in the process, who needed this information, or a copy of the underground installation plan, could she have obtained it? It's not. The management authority had to request it on behalf of the party and have the party take over an authorised geometer from the municipal authority of the administration. Imagine that the underground installation cadastre is not part of the state secret, and business secret is certainly complete, what would happen to the state of Serbia during NATO aggression in 99, if they knew all the data on underground installations from the state diameter and catastra. So accept this amendment for the sake of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26130	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26131	In this amendment, we are looking for Article 29(3) to replace the words "determined by an investor" with the words "executive institution". So here we want to give priority to the Institute, because the organisations that are foreseen by this law, the geodetic organisations, regardless of what they will get at one point of the license, are asking whether they will do their job in a good way. However, I must note that it seems that the Government wanted to joke with the MPs when she sent this bill to the National Assembly. I don't know if you know how to register real estate in the Republic of Serbia. There are three systems, a pity that Mr. Dulic is not there, and these are – a catastrophe of immovableity, the Institute runs those books; land books run by courts and the Tapi system. The Tapian system is a system from the Ottoman Empire. A good part of Serbia is tied to the Tapian system. With this bill, you introduce certain terms such as "ji-pi-es", "global positioning system", "digital field model", "satellite recordings" etc., and you have 20% registered immovableities resting on the Tapi system, so once again, system from the Ottoman Empire. This is really inappropriate. Simply, you are making regulations that you will never apply and play with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26132	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to Articles 31, 32, 33 to 38 refers to Chapter Four, which defines basic geodetic works and is proposed by the SRS to be deleted from Articles 31 to 38, given that it is short-term terms which are not necessary in the legal text itself. In a normative sense, it is not common and it is unnecessary to lay down provisions that are narrow, which reflect certain technical terms, which relate to technical and technological work, to certain standards or to some other non-essential elements. Why does it matter? It is important for practical and pragmatic reasons, because, in today's conditions of science development, technology, information society, there is a very rapid change in technical terms, technical standards, change in measurement criteria, which in the end obsesssses certain terms that remain in the legal regulations. The position of the SRS is that strict terms and standards should not be introduced into legal provisions and therefore we propose that amendments be accepted to Articles 31 to 38 of this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26134	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP Milorad Buh, who explained these amendments, submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26135	Article 53. The bill speaks of a conflicting diameter and says that the cosmic diameter is geodetic works carried out in the process of regulating land territory by compassessing. That's true, but it's missing here that it has to be in accordance with the Law of Compassion. The fact that you, in the bill of this law, have repeatedly mentioned the commercial diameter in favour of the fact that the good work of Serbia has not been carried out through land books, or through a cadastre, and it is also the fact that it will certainly still be in Serbia, and it should be. For those who do not know, the commission is the accumulation of agricultural possessions and certainly we will probably be able to also talk about a new bill or amend the Law on Cooperation in some parts where it is necessary. You can't ignore the existence of the Cooperation Act when it comes to the commercial diameter from the aspect of the state diameter law and the cataster of immovableity, and that's why I find it rather unclear why you didn't accept not only this one, but a large number of amendments to the SRS which you must admit, above all, are professionally done from the aspect of the matter that this law processes. There are no ideologies here, no ideological amendments, no amendments that in any way spoil the concept of what you've imagined, and that's why I think this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26136	The 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several disputed solutions in article 56. First, instead of using a term that is common in legal science and that is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is state territory, it speaks here in a rather impersonal way about the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So, every country has its own state territory, that's a legal term, and the word "space" is not a legal term. Furthermore, Article 56(5) states that the transactions referred to in Article 4 of this Article are to be carried out in accordance with this law, the rules governing the state border and international contracts concluded with neighbouring countries. Otherwise, the entire article 54 refers to the diameter of the state border. If one issue is current in Serbia today, then it is precisely the issue of the state border and the SRS that the position of (5) of the members of 56 should have been complemented by the provision to operate the diameter of the state border, above all, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Resolution 1244, guarantees the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and of the KIM. The government probably considered this term "International Contracts" concluded with neighbouring countries to be related to the Republic of Albania as well. You know well, government gentlemen, that this international contract has been effectively suspended, because the EU, that is, a good part of EU member states, NATO Pact and your US friends think that this international contract is no longer valid and that now the state border has been moved north to the Ibar River and that the state border is in fact the administrative line between Serbia's rope and its AP KIM. On the other hand, here is just one more sentence, the state border of the Republic of Serbia with Croatia is also disputed. First of all, I'm thinking about that part of the state border that goes down the Danube River. As you know, depending on the Danube River, the state border with Croatia is also moving, and on the other hand, you know that the state border, which was actually the administrative border, is for us from the SRS today an artificial line because there is absolutely no historical basis. So, today's state border between Serbia and Croatia was withdrawn in 1945 by a communist committee chaired by Milovan Gilas, who was, above all, unprofessionally done, not only from the historical aspect, but primarily from the expert-geoedetic aspect, because literally the state border was taken over by the Danube River, it is changing and now you have situations that some land parcels, which are formally legally located in Croatia, are a catastrian part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If anywhere the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia had to be mentioned, then it is precisely in Article 56, where it is said about the state border crossing which, unfortunately, is both disputed with Albania and Croatia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26138	Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26139	You have heard that Article 56 refers to the diameter, elaborate and the register of the state border and that it is said in the first position that the diameter of the state border is to mark border points, geodetic measurement of border points and the collection of data on the state border. We proposed the amendment to add another position here, saying in the seventh view that the diameter of the state border between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia, would be used by existing border points in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is truly amazing that this amendment has not been accepted, given the inability, unfortunately, to apply Resolution 1244 to KIM, which is an indisputable part of the Republic of Serbia as regards the SRS and will always be the mark of the border points, the geodetic measurement of border points and the collection of data on the state border at this point is not possible in part of Serbia's territory, in part of KIM. That is why it is really necessary for existing border points to be used in the context of this job to clearly indicate that KIM is an integral part of Serbia. You these days, I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you're setting us up as a cowardly egg laws that in a magical way indirectly recognise an independent state of Kosovo, and also representatives of state authorities in their statements, in promises etc. These are very dangerous things. We Serbian radicals use such laws, these opportunities to warn Serbia's public above all that the state authorities are playing a dangerous game. We will never recognise Kosovo's independence, they say, when it is to be said in front of television cameras, but when we say - enter the view that for the diameter of the state border between the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro, Albania and Macedonia at this point we will use existing border points, in accordance with the Constitution of Serbia, you will not accept it. It's very dangerous, but let Serbian citizens hear what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26140	The 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26141	Article 77 states that the right to use, the right to lease, the right to office, mortgages and other real rights to real estates prescribed by law and there is nothing disputed about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26142	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 78th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26143	One more legal question. Article 78 speaks of a premise to the immovableity cataster, and you say in the fourth position that the premise is entered on a 90-year period or on a deadline towards the correction referred to in point (4) of paragraph 2 of this Article, and that means if the competent authority in a public correction determines the registration of a premise. Once again, you have left out something that we have suggested that it is necessary to put it, which is that the premise is also entered on the deadline for putting on the legal clause set out in item 2 of point 3 of this article, and that means if the public document has not become legal. We need to know when we're going to make a note if the public document hasn't become a force; then when it becomes a forceful one. I guess that's what the law has to say, it can't be assumed, it can't be left at the will of some bad lawyer, it has to be written in the law and everybody's applying it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26144	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 79th amendment. Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26145	The justification and erasure of the premise, which is the subject of Article 79, and the position (3) says: "The provision shall be deleted by means of an official duty or at the request of a party if it is not justified within the time limit". In view of both the legal side and the state of play and what is really happening in the state of Serbia, there must also be that this note can also be deleted at the request of the "interested person". There are often situations in practice, in life, that the party is not interested in, let's just say that some note is deleted, but there is an interested person who has a lot to depend on erasing that note. The conditions have been met to delete, a party in the process will not submit a request, the official authority does not do so, it had to be assumed that any interested person could do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26146	National MP Zoran Krasic submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26147	Article 85 speaks of a registered predecessor. In attitude (3), where Mr Krasic intervened, you say - when the registration of real rights on a newly built facility is not required to have a registered predecessor. What happens if the object isn't listed in the immovableity cadastre? You don't seem to live in the state of Serbia. You don't seem to know that 60% of the immovableity in Serbia, especially buildings built, is not listed in either the land book or recorded in the immobility cadastre. Since 2000, you've been moving in several actions, starting with the Shumarc, and then flying, and sending calls to the parties, etc. None of that work has been done or done very little. Then it's amazing that you didn't predict on the basis of this fact that you know for sure, because every citizen knows it, knows when he goes to the cadastre to take out a land sheet, it says there's a field, there's no house, and there's no one there who knows how much, even built on a building permit. He goes for a copy of the plot plan, not on a copy of the house, there's a field. You have to predict that fact by this law, and it is truly unbelief that you have not added these words here - that the registration of real rights, except for newly built objects, that there is no requirement for the existence of a registered predecessor, and when it comes to an object that is not drawn into a building of immovableity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26148	The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to article 86. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 88 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26149	And Article 88, this second position, where counterpart Alexic intervened, and this 89, where his colleague Krasic intervened, are purely legal issues and it is amazing that these amendments were not accepted. In this previous article, 88 says - a public document in order to be similar to the registration must be legal. A public instrument similar to the registration may also be a contract when it comes to this Article 88. It was supposed to be here that it could be a contract certified by the competent court. Article 89 speaks of a ban on enrollment in the ‘Immobilisation’ cataster. In the first position, it is said - enrollment in the immovableity cadasar will not be allowed when the law, by decision of the court or of the other competent authority provides for a prohibition of entry on certain immovableity. counterpart Krasic added that the court's decision must be judicial. Is there anything more normal in this white world when it comes to the decision of an organ than the law says it's legal? Since you have not accepted this amendment, you know how much chaos you will have, because the registration of the immovableity, after you removed it from the land book, has been taken out of the hands of the judges, will be done by the officials in the building block, where they will be the least legal. There will be people of the geodetic profession and there will be someone with a court ruling brought in the Fourth Municipal Court, let's say, where a ban on an enrolment is foreseen, and that officer sees, yeah, he writes that too, and there's no knowledge that a complaint has been filed, so the second-degree court annuls this first-degree solution, so make a different decision or re-enter it with a first-degree, so it makes a different decision. It lasts, it's a fact and it has to last.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26150	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, submitted to the 90th Amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26151	The article of the 90th and this section at all speaks of the creation of a catastrophe of immovableity. You're speaking here about as if we've never had a catastrophe of immovableity. We had, but well, you want it to be unique right now in all of Serbia, erase the land book, the deed, etc. We can do that, we said in the principle debate, we'd take it. We stress, it would have been better if it had remained a land book, but if it had been extended to all Serbia and those entries were unique throughout Serbia, but when you didn't accept it, we accepted that this law could do as well. Believe me, if you had accepted these 112, 114 amendments, believe me, you'd have a great law. Remember now, and all those who follow us and fellow MPs, we will have amendments and additions to this law and what today are our amendments, in a few months or in a year there will be amendments and additions to this law, because without it you will not be able to do the job that you intend to do. It's a good thing you're up to it. It's good to do this, but it has to be the way it's actually legally possible. The attitude (2) says that the cataster of immovableity is established for the entire catastrian municipality, and especially from that position, a cataster of immovableity can be established for part of the catastrian municipality, and at least for one plot under the law. This is a disaster. Imagine how much abuse this provision will produce. That's why we suggested that it be deleted. Imagine how much "Luka Belgrade" will be, imagine how many "Mouths" will be. That's amazing. You previously allowed there to be a donation, this Petar Matic, if he hadn't already finished it, would be some new Petar Matic, to donate a catastro on his territory and then he'd have a nice cadastrian municipality because it's possible for only one plot. Guys, have you ever been, have you ever left the office? Here, that's what I'm asking you. I don't ask Minister Dulic if he's here, he's a doctor, but these jobs can't be done in the office and on the computer. They can when the field is visited before, when the real daily problems of Serbian citizens are previously considered. Then the clerk goes back to the office and then sits down for the computer and does what you predicted. You'll make a mess, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26152	On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26153	Article 94 speaks of the Commission for Exposure. Of course, that commission should exist, but what we predicted here. You are, now, not to read, not to waste time, which you have all predicted to be members of this committee, I do not read what is indisputable to us, but you have also predicted one citizen in the order of the catastrian community for which the building of a catastra of immovableity is done. Believe me, a terrible mistake. This provision had the Law on the return of agricultural land to villages for use. The law lasted 10 years, so it was extended to two more. It lasted 12 years in total. Personally in the municipality of Zemun, in the Department of Property and Legal Affairs, I was working on the application of this law and I can commend that in the municipality of Zemun this job was 100 percent done, and before the period of validity of the law, and the biggest problem we had, we had because the law predicted that there was one man sitting in those commissions from the village where the land returned. With all due respect to these people, you can't expect someone who hosts the village that he can be objective, when it comes to his neighbors, and closer relatives and distant relatives, because that's what this is about, and above all, he can't be professional. That's why our proposal is that instead of that person, he's a geometer employed by the municipal administration, for the reason that the municipal administration has all that data. Secondly, which is an expert in this job, and third, which is what this geometry, believe me, I have long experience in that area, every geometry that our people would say, knows the territory of their community as their own pocket. No one can be better at that commission than a surveyor employed by the municipal administration. Besides, this geometry, now we're talking about some objective circumstances, there's someone to answer for his work, and this face in the order of citizens to whom it's going to fit?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26154	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 96. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 96, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26155	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 96 (1) point 1) states that a person registered in the Land Catastre by 6 April 1941 will be registered for the rightholder of property on the plot. Here, Mr. Dulic, there are a few questions. First, you have certain parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia in which by 6 April 1941 there was no land cadastre at all, i.e. land registration was not conducted in the form of cadastres, but in the form of land books. I mean, first of all, the AP Vojvodina. There was no catastra at all, there was only land of books. And in most of the Vojvodina municipalities today you have a practically double record of immovableity - records through catasters and records in land books. It is unfortunate that data from one or more records differ largely. On the other hand, such a solution is being opened here by Pandora's box, or you can in practice cause consequences that no one in Serbia, I believe, wants. As you know, Mr. Dulic, by April 6, 1941, 90% of the landowners in Vojvodina were Germans, were people at the time, there was the border date of April 6, 1941, officially the citizens of the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and to the most extent were spies and agents of the Nazi Third Reich. After World War II, a good part of those Germans from Yugoslavia and then from other countries that suffered from Hitler's occupation, from Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, were expelled to Germany. Now the question here is whether you intend to enlist as property rights holders on land plots the Germans who were enrolled in the land cadastre until 6 April 1941. If you intend to do so, then know that we will be returned to Serbia by the descendants of the notorious seventh SS division Prince Eugen, who was mostly recruited by Germans from the Vojvodina area, primarily from Banat. As far as I know, the conclusions and measures that the Allies took after World War II are still in effect today. Of course, there is a secret revision of World War II history, but officially what the Allied forces brought in in 1945 is still valid today. So this solution is extremely dangerous. On the other hand, this solution is completely compatible with what Social Democrats leader Vojvodina Nenad Canak insists on returning the country to the exactly exiled Germans from Vojvodina, so-called. The folks. This solution also opens up some other questions regarding the making of a law on denationalisation. Will you return the land to the people who were grant owners in 1941, who were in fact actively working against the state's interest? So this solution, Mr. Dulic, is extremely dangerous. In practice, it can cause very negative consequences and you don't even know what kind of dangers are hidden in one such provision and from a legal aspect, because in one part of Serbia there was no cadaster at all in April 6, 1941, there were land books. On the other hand, and that there was a cadastre, the catastrian land owners on 6 April 1941, when the aggression against the Kingdom of Yugoslavia began, in Vojvodina 90% of the cases were Germans who were actively fighting against the state of their citizens from 1941 to 1945, with honorary exceptions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26156	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted the amendment to Article 97. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 97 regulates the registration of property rights on the facility, and the attitude (4) says that one of the following persons will be entered for the owner of the property, including that a person who has been granted a building permit for the construction of a temporary property will be registered for the holder of the facility. The SRS has proposed to extend attitude (4) in plan 97, i.e. by adding the words "and the person to whom the building permit was issued for the construction of the building"; hence a permanent facility, not only a temporary object. We believe that such a solution is very practical and that it is in the interest of citizens because one of the conditions for obtaining housing loans and the condition that the holder of the facility has a building permit, even if he does not have the necessary permits. If there is a solution that the Government advocates, that only persons who have been granted a building permit for the construction of a temporary facility are considered to be discriminated against by other citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been granted a building permit for permanent construction, who could potentially be beneficiaries of residential loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26158	Members of the 98th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Maja Lausevic and Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The 99th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26159	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Madam President, as far as Article 99(2) is concerned, there are certain shortcomings because in practice in Serbia more recently there are a number of problems and that a large number of citizens have been deceived by investors when they are new to construction. See how much damage there is and how much court proceedings. In fact, if someone performs construction works and makes apartments for sale, in case they do not respect contract provisions, citizens become victims, remain deceived and the question is whether they will ever be able to compensate for the damage caused primarily by profits and those organised in the apartment manufacturing industry in recent times. We think it was absolutely supposed to be arranged the other way around. We also think it is necessary to contract with that investor on construction, to also be included in the provision of Article 99, in order to be truly respected by the law, and on the other hand, to protect the citizens. Madam President, may I ask you a question? I was asked by a television worker who here in a can, here by the Assembly, tin, sitting, eaten by mosquitoes, can't live and beg to be seen and to find a solution for these people not to sit in that trailer of metal, but to provide them with space in the Assembly. Indeed, it is inappropriate for them to be isolated in that park and be tortured all day long, and there is room in the congregation. Find some opportunities, protect people and draw attention to the director of television, and you can really talk about it and arrange this situation in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26160	To take advantage of the opportunity to inform you that we will be in direct transmission by 13.50 hours, and later the transmission will be delayed and technical work will be completed around the space where the television workers you are interested in will be placed. The 101st amendment was also submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26161	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dealing with 35 years of law, of which more than 25 years in law enforcement, and what I'm going to talk about will be confirmed, and I hope that such opinions should be, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Novakovic, that the land's book of Roman law is recognised in continental law as a fiction of absolute accuracy and that, without a land book, we in practice haven't had a harmonised property and a real right to immobilize. I think we need to keep this provision in mind when it comes to Article 101. In fact, the question now arises as to why the Proposer in Article 88(2) foresees justice and does not provide for Article 101. I have to tell you from practice, countless cases of court disputes are unnecessary, because someone in the catastra can enroll the rights of a person's property without having a judicial decision. Who can answer for this? No one can. If the rule of law does not provide that the reference to the cataster may make a certain entry only on the basis of the judicial decision of the competent authority. And if he logs in, there's a complaint, a second-degree decision says that decision is lifted. Then we put citizens in a position to expose themselves to unnecessary court costs and procedures. We burden the court, we burden the state and its state authorities, we bring riots into the cataster, and there is no enrollment without a judicial decision. I repeat, no one can answer unless told on the basis of a judicial decision. Therefore, this clause of justice must be expressed, and I also refer to Article 88, as the proposer is used in Article 88 and in the clause of lawfulness.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26162	Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26163	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President and Mr Minister, the SRS considers that one additional provision in Article 103(1) is necessary to provide for a period of five years in order to allow citizens to enter property rights according to the data of the land book, the deed books and the intubulation books in order to enable citizens to carry out certain coordinations, corrections and how the cadastrian book, i.e. the book on immovableities, would thus be arranged. Citizens should be allowed a longer period. The SRS is for this amendment to be quite acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26164	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted the amendment to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. You have 11 minutes and 40 seconds left, Mrs. Radeta. National MP Petar Jojic submitted the amendment to Article 104. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26165	Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the provision of Article 104(3), after the word 'basement', the point is replaced by a comma and words are added - or within six months of the date of receipt of the provisional entry. The amendment corresponds to the fact that a large number of people interested in temporary enrolment will not be timely informed of this because they are both inaccessible to newspapers and the Internet. Therefore, we believe that it should be possible to allow citizens, especially those who are interested in this period, and especially according to the provisions of the law which are interested persons, so only those interested persons who meet the legal requirements to be able to obtain the status of an interested person, because not every person can interfere with a particular administrative procedure, but only an interested person. The interested party must provide evidence to the competent national authority to meet the requirements of the interested party, as provided for by the law. Our request and recommendation to just comply and set this time limit, so that those who meet the conditions can be informed and learn about certain possible rights that could protect against the competent state authorities and that could be fulfilled if they meet the law of certain conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26166	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted the amendment to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26167	Article 104 lays down the procedure for the presentation on which the minutes are conducted and in its position (4) it is prescribed that the complaint be submitted to the Commission for the presentation which is required to consider the objection and to adopt a solution within eight days. Mr Mirovic's amendment requires that the objection be submitted to the Institute, because if the commission has already reached a solution, we must have a senior body, or one who appointed the commission, should be responsible for making a solution by appeal, in our opinion. Otherwise, we go to that principle - cadiya sues you, cadiya sues you. I would like to link this amendment to the amendment tabled in Article 108(2) to explain why we are right, where you are prescribing that the equities cadasar is applied from the day of the adoption of the rulings of Article 1 of this Article, and that is why we believe that instead of saying - adoption should be a word of law, because there must be legal protection and there must be judicial protection, and therefore there must be a need to be a judicial solution after a possible judicial dispute. You're playing too much of a building disaster. It's not a toy, you know. It's for the people of the holy book. That's where the property is registered. In the Constitution we said that private property is sacred we can't just play with it. So, the catastran is a public document of great importance, both for the state and for the individual, but above all for the individual, because of it we have established a catastrophe of immovableity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26168	Members of the 105th Amendment were submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 105 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26169	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 105(2) states that the party may waive the right to appeal, and may withdraw a statement of appeal which cannot be revoked until a second-degree settlement is reached. When an appeal can be made, under which conditions and how the appeal proceedings are under way, Mr Minister, it is regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act and there is no need to regulate a measure already regulated by the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. This government is prone, and we talked about this especially when it comes to criminal law, that, in addition to the basic law that regulates certain matter, it creates a parallel legislation. You did it when it comes to the Criminal Code, you did it when it comes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, now you do it and when it comes to the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is not enough that the appeal procedure is regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act, we are now creating a subsidiary administrative procedural legislation. We now suspend what it says in the General Administrative Procedure Act and the State Prime Minister's Law and the Catastro we regulate matter that is basically administrative and procedural and already regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, whenever I read somewhere that something cannot be called off, I remember those stolen mandates of ours in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia's constitution says that when an MP places his mandate at the disposal of the political party with whom he was elected, that the statement cannot be recalled. But your lawyers on the board of directors have interpreted that they can. We have now suspended the RS Constitution and now who can guarantee the citizens of Serbia that in the area of national diameter and catastra, when they make a statement and say it - it cannot be recalled, who knows maybe one day and can. When the ruling coalition says that something cannot be recalled, I can conclude from practice that and how it can be recalled and that the question is then what is the value of a legal norm in which it says that a statement can or cannot be recalled. It can be interpreted in practice as it suits someone. The Constitution says well - when you put your mandate at your disposal, it cannot be recalled. But you suspended the Constitution and said they could call it off. If you suspended the Constitution, which is the highest legal act in one state, who can guarantee us that you will not suspend one law? That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26170	The 107th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards Article 107, which has been proposed for the completion of the process of exposure and the inadmissibility of vomiting in the previous situation and the repetition of the procedure, as said in Article 107, and Article (3) provides for one standard that is absolutely not necessary. I will point out the experience and expertise of Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Novakovic, who, in his long-standing lawyer practice, knows that such provisions do not know our right, and this is that it is not allowed to repeat and recover proceedings in the previous situation. This is an excessive and unnecessary norm, but if it is envisaged, in that case, I pray you, then you must provide for the right to appeal, because the RS Constitution guarantees the right to appeal any decision by a state authority or other body which decides on the rights and interests of a certain citizen of the RS. You have seen from the presentation of Ms Vjerica Radeta, Mrs Pop-Lazic, Mr Martinovic, Mr Peric, Mr Munjic and other SRS MPs that this matter is extremely familiar to them. Alexic and other messengers point to us, so it is good that you today have the mood to allow the messengers of the people to express what they think, and what is in spirit with the Constitution and the law. Therefore, the SRS has a good intention of correcting the text, and I am telling you, experts from the SRS in this area and how they can make a great contribution to correcting this text, which is of general interest to the state, and particularly to the general interest in achieving the personal rights of our citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26172	Member of the 108th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on certain provisions of this law, the geodetic organization has been authorised to work on the work of elaborates and after the elaborate work has been done with this article, 118, is prescribed to hand it over to the Bureau. The Bureau is reviewing the labs. If there are no deficiencies in the elaborate, the Bureau will verify the reception of the lab. If there are certain shortcomings, then it is within the jurisdiction of the Bureau to identify deficiencies in the procedure of the draft review, the minutes shall order the geodetic organisation to remove the deficiencies within the time limit left. Here we've figured out, leaving a deadline absolutely doesn't mean anything. We ask the question, who has discretionary rights in the name of the Bureau or any other authority to prescribe what is the optimal time limit for removing some shortcomings. That deadline we specify and say, within eight days, the geodetic organization should remove all shortcomings identified by the Bureau. You say that sometimes that eight-day deadline can be short, sometimes it's not enough to get rid of those shortcomings. We believe that stakeholders must know during what period of time they can exercise their certain rights, and therefore the eight-day period is absolutely appropriate and acceptable and does not change the concept of this law. I think that by accepting this amendment we would get one member who would be quite correct and not have much influence on geodetic organizations. The Bureau would also like to have up-to-date documentation in case of acceptance of this deadline. I see no reason for this amendment not to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26174	The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to article 118. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26175	In Article 118, point (6) of the words - The Institute refuses to implement the change in words - the Institute proposes the involvement of another geodetic organisation. What did you want with this amendment? This amendment seeks to introduce legal certainty and seriousness that must monitor and characterise such matters. It is, therefore, serious business, and for this very reason it is necessary for these matters to be characterized by one legal certainty and seriousness. So, when the geodetic organization delivers the elaborate of geodetic works to the Institute and the record of the audit carried out, the Institute shall review the quality of the geodetic works carried out before and before the above. It may occur that these geodetic works are not done according to the rules of the profession, that they have some drawbacks. In such a case, we suggest that the office order another, therefore, new geodetic organisations. Any other solution would bring in one danger, a latent danger from various influences, abuses, or ultimately be certified by the Bureau without these shortcomings being removed. So they weren't removed the way the waist ordered. In order not to do so, it is necessary to allow another geodetic organization to correct it. The proposed solution is considered to be more comprehensive and provides the necessary legal certainty. In a way, it does some kind of psychological coercion to do the job in a quality way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26176	The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 119. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26177	Mr. Minister, we're here talking about the diameter and the catastrophe of the immovableity. Immobilities are subject to traffic, of course, on the basis of legal provisions. Article 119 speaks of the monitoring of the developments in immovableity and in order to ensure the up-to-dateness of the immovableity catastra, the Office shall, under official duty, monitor the changes to all that occur on immovable property. Monitoring can be done with occasional aviation, periodically across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it can be done in another way, by monitoring these changes in immovableity that can be common. State and other bodies and enterprises and institutions and other organisations are obliged to deliver documents to the Institute that have an impact on immovable property and spatial units data. For the sake of precision, this is a purely legal and technical need for this member to be corrected, it is said - in addition to these organisations and persons provided for in Article 119, the SRS suggests that they have the right to intervene, the right to propose certain changes to the real estate of all interested persons. So we're just adding to these organizations and interested persons. Legal-technical intervention is desirable and acceptable, does not change the essence of this law. I think this amendment is consistent and quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26178	The 120th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Radoslav Milovanovic and Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 123. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic to Article 123. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet, to Article 124. Do you want a word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26179	Ladies and gentlemen, since today is a holy week and St. Arangel summer, our peasants are likely to be able to monitor the work of this Parliament, especially since unfortunately again because of the devastating policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia towards the village, peasants, farmers, they are not worth picking up the raspberries, or plums, or cherry. Why am I bringing this up? Because our peasants know catastra jobs well. I'm sure our debate, our SRS understands perfectly and is baptized that you from the Ministry know this issue so badly that you haven't at least accepted our amendments a little bit in accordance with this law. You accepted, you just read the amendment, and it is interesting that you accept the amendments, and yet the public cannot understand what the amendment applies to fellow Members Mirko Munjic. You predicted that enrollment of common rights could require any of the commoners for the benefit of all. That's where you put the dot. Mirko Munjic suggested that he can do so only on the basis of the certified authority of other communities. You accepted that. There are at least 90% of these logical amendments. I can't believe you went past those amendments of ours. One of these is also this amendment to Article 124. The orderly request required for entry into the immovableity cadasar is spoken of. Point 2) says that it would be orderly, among other things, not to read everything, not to waste time, it takes the name of a cadastrian municipality and the marking of the immovableity for which the enrolment is sought, according to the data of the immovable catastra. We all know that the data from the immovableity cadastre is not reliable. Unfortunately, we all know that land-book data, i.e. groins, are not reliable enough, and obviously we all want it to be settled and it is not disputed, but then you had to accept the amendment that it is an orderly request and if it is descriptive that the immovableity of which you want to be entered or which you want some information, and that the request would be neat even though the plot is described in detail, but that it is recognizable. Ask the people of the Catastras, because they still receive such demands today. He says I need a copy of the plan for my plot. He doesn't know the number of parcels because he doesn't have the data he may have had, or his father, it's lost somewhere, the cadastre doesn't have them, but he says it's a plot that's the ninth of it and that channel in a row, or a plot on the left of the PKB plot, or it's the third of Mark Mark Markovic's plot, his neighbor or uncle's, and then those in the catastrases find that plot that describes how to get to the plot of that person who wants a copy of the plan for his plot. These are the life problems of our citizens, especially peasants, and therefore I ask you on their behalf to accept this amendment and the other amendments. Not to promote us from the SRS, but because, I guess you understand, we have this job in our little finger. So take these suggestions, it'll be easier for people who do this job, and for people who come to these institutions to finish their jobs. It'll be easier for all of us because in half a year we won't have any changes to this law, and otherwise here we are living, so see, we'll have changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26180	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet, to Article 124. Here you go. Would you like some? (The Belief of Radet, from the place: We already had that.) I'm sorry. Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26181	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, therefore, from the Ministry, the men of the Ministry have proposed this provision of the law and it is normal to accept the requirements in order. I think the guys at the D.A.'s are right, because the order has to be respected. It seems to me that they came from that people's "quick girl, his girlfriend". But it happens that a girl runs away, so her other girlfriend comes. I would like to say that it was necessary in this position of Article 125, among other things, to assume that all other requirements will be considered and resolved at the same time. Of course, it was here to predict what would happen to those others who had submitted the requests - whether they would be rejected or rejected by those who would submit later, and it is good that the priority of enrolment, or resolution, is to the one who submitted the first request. Therefore, the SRS here only adds and points out that there was a need to better regulate this position so much that at the same time these other requirements were addressed, but with the instruction that it had the right to make a statement of appeal and thus to allow it to participate in the procedure. I apologize to the ministry gentlemen if I said they were boys. The Belief of Radet, from the place: Well, they're not girls. That's what happened, but that's how it is in our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26182	On Article 126, MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 128. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a feeling that you're getting rid of this. The president was just a moment ago, and it is not on purpose likely, but the delay has affected, calling for an amendment that has already been discussed. We want to conduct a quality debate on behalf of millions of Serbian citizens who possess immovable property, mostly on land when I say so. A moment ago, Mrs. Verica Radeta well reminded me that perhaps this year, perhaps by autumn, and then our landowners would be ready to give it to the tycoons. Not to sell it, but to give it away because they won't even be able to pay taxes on it. You should know the fact, gentlemen, that a kilo of blackberry is now the season of harvesting of blackberries, 13 dinars. There's no account of anyone picking her out to go to someone else's shop. We've done one such situation. When we propose small, small changes, you are not ready to participate in what my colleague Stevanovic would say, interactively, and make a contribution. Here, on behalf of the SRS, for the sake of precision, I have proposed an intervention in Article 128(1), where it is said that the entry into the immovableity cadastre takes place on the day of the decision-making. We suggest that it be - on the day of submission of the enrolment request. Because very often in practice, given the lack of urgency, not the Ministry, but the people who work in the Catastres, given this impunity, perhaps because of too many demands, I don't want to say because very often there are very professional and responsible people and at all times are ready to come out to the parties, but sometimes a lot of time has passed from the day of submission requires to the day of reaching a solution. In order to avoid that time, which I can't tell how long it's going on right now, whether it's going on for a few years, but it's going to take a change to be recorded from the day of the application, not the day of the solution. I hope that this amendment will be accepted, and I therefore thank the Proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26184	Of course we're not, we're doing a very good job. The amendment was submitted to Article 128 by Mirko Munjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26185	In Article 128(2), the words "received days" are replaced by the words "on the day of adoption". To remind you, Article 128 regulates the time of entry of immovableity, as well as the basis for which this enrolment is carried out. This amendment is trying, in the interest of the person seeking enrolment, to reduce the enrolment deadline, which often due to certain situations, due to certain circumstances, for which the person requesting the enrolment is not responsible, can be very long. Namely, Article 128. The draft law, which regulates when and on the basis of which the registration of immovable property is made, provides in its position (2) for the entry to be made on the basis of a second-degree settlement and a judicial decision from the administrative dispute, which no one disputes, but is foreseen as the moment of entry of the day of adoption of the second-degree solution, i.e. the day of adoption of the judgment. In practice, various unforeseens can occur for parties and very difficult circumstances and situations. Namely, the day of adoption of the second-degree solution and the day of adoption of the court ruling can be so delayed that it can simply be forgotten when enrolment is sought. Therefore, it is much simpler, celery and more practical for the interested party to acquire its original right to register at the time of the decision in question, because any delay in enrolment in such a solution falls on the burden of the interested party. That's why this is much more practical. I suggest you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26186	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted the amendment to Article 133. Does anyone want a word? (Petar Jojic, from place: You skipped article 129.) Member of the 129th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26187	Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the amendments submitted by the SRS to Article 129(1), we believe that the practice has shown that citizens should be given a longer period when it comes first to this provision, the right to appeal or to refuse and withdraw from the appeal, as provided for and proposed in Article 129. Why do we consider this? In practice, I know a lot of cases in which a man lives in Subotica or Belgrade, but he needs to go to Novi Pazar or Vranje, Prijepolje, Pryboj, to obtain documentation so that he can provide new evidence of resolution in the second degree on his request as a person and as a party participating in the procedure. As a result, a more appropriate deadline, Mr Minister, is in the administrative procedure, especially where complex cases, where the general interest is concerned, where citizens are concerned, so this amendment should be adopted that instead of eight days it should be allowed 15 days, because it is more appropriate and enables citizens to obtain appropriate evidence and provide the second-degree body with valid and relevant evidence on the basis of which a legal and fair decision can be made.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26188	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted the amendment to Article 133. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 133 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26189	In Article 133(5) following the word ‘appeal’, the words ‘competent ministry’ are added, and the word ‘eight’ is replaced by ‘fifteen’. This amendment is in fact trying in a more complete way to round up the possibility of eradicating holders and enrolling property rights, and this is based on a particular document that has acquired property or lease rights. To remind myself, in Article 133(4), the following is said: ''Deleting holders and enrollment of property rights, rights of use, i.e. lease on a plot in a state or public property, will be allowed on the basis of a document entitled property, right of use, or lease acquired. ''The following point (5) reads: ''Agreement to allow or refuse registration may be made by a complaint within eight days of the date of delivery of the solution. ''So, if for reasons provided for by Article 133. The proposal for a law lays down that a request for the entry of a third party's rights and the erasure of the holder of the parcel has been established, a solution allowing the entry will be made. Otherwise, a solution to an interested person will be negative, which will refuse registration. Since it has been unscheduled by the person concerned, we have specified that it is submitted to the competent ministry within 15 days, which we consider to be much more appropriate. I think that the solutions proposed by the amendment are fully adequate to the situation described and that they should be accepted in the proposed form.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26190	Member of the 135th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26191	Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the provision of Article 135 (1) following the word “based”, the word “legality” is added. Not to say again, this is, first of all, absolutely necessary to define itself and norm must be clear, precise and practical, that there is no possibility of anyone being manipulated. I said in previous discussions on those members spoken of by Mrs Radeta, that lawfulness is one of the decisive facts, and on the basis of the facts, the enrolment takes place. It's a fact without which there's no enrolment. However, in this article 135, when it comes to the state, we now have the news that we have traffic from the state. State and property are not the same. The state is that the holder has some practical authority, and the property is absolute power, and here with this member there will be certain problems and will be difficult to apply in practice. I therefore believe that this amendment, from the point of view of the SRS, should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26192	The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to Article 135. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26193	In Article 135(2), following the word ‘based on’, the word ‘legal’ is added. In fact, the amendment makes one legal and technical correction, i.e. the completion of the position (2) of Article 135, because the proposed solution can also introduce certain confusions in practice. Let me explain a little bit what this is about. This member shall be allowed to change the holder and, before the expiry of the three-year period from the date of application of the immovable catastra, in two cases. In the first case, if the holder has a solution to the inheritance and in the second case, if he owns a life support contract. Given that these are practically exceptions to rules, it is necessary to provide that the decision on succession is a valid document, and the best way to achieve this validity in practice is in fact its rightfulness, which I am predicting this amendment. Otherwise, if the solution is not justified, there may be a practical situation, to make changes to the holder, so that later, as the decision on succession changes, everything must be put into the previous situation. There's a legal confusion. In order for that to not happen, it is best that you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26194	Member of the 136th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Do you want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 136 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26195	Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the provisions proposed in Article 136 which regulate the erasure of entries that have expired, and at the end of the position (2), where it is spoken and suggested that this erasure be carried out if the time limit has expired and the importance has expired, it shall be carried out without the decision to delete. Please, it's not rare in practice to make illegal and incorrect solutions. The one who makes the solution can make a mistake, he can make a mistake, so he can say – the deadline of July 26, 2010, and we are at the time of the current year 20. Six. In 2009, that mistake too could cost a lot of our citizen and the one to whom this procedure applies. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to provide for judicial protection, that a person has the right to obtain a solution and a decision, to be instructed to have the right to use an appeal or an objection and thus to receive judicial protection, and the Constitution guarantees to him any decision by the State authority that he has the right to lodge a complaint or any other remedy when it comes to the protection of his personal interests and rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26196	The 137th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26197	Ladies and gentlemen, the termology of his right must be determined, it must be a clear definition and a message to whoever he refers to, and also to whoever decides on his rights, it should be quite clear and precise and logical. The SRS believes that Article 137 is more acceptable in terms of reliability – according to the principle of trust, in Serbian terminology – reliability. It is one logic right and we believe and propose to adopt this amendment because it has legal logic and the right name and legal term, and therefore it is effective in practice. As such in previous practice, both in court practice, and in administrative procedure, and in litigation and non-partisan proceedings, all authorities use the term – reliability, not confidence. Trust is now that I'm relying on something that's uncertain, it's some uncertainty. Confidence is a stronger thing, a stronger term, and it provides far, far more logical support in the proposed norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26198	Members of the 145th Amendment were submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 148 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 148 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 149 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 150 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26199	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, in Article 150. The bill regulates something called a mass assessment of the value of immovableity in the proposal's terminology. The SRS believes that this member should be deleted, because it is a business to be done and already carried out by the tax administration, therefore, a state body once called Public Revenue Administration. It is not possible for a state organisation such as the Republic Geodetic Institute to deal with the issue of the value of immovableity. It just comes out of a description of her performance. This law, i.e. the bill of law, is called the Law of State and Catastro. So it regulates two things - the measurement of land, i.e. the determination of all relevant land-related facts, i.e. the space and on this basis the management of relevant public records and public books in the form of catastras. Everything else shouldn't be done by the Republic Geodetic Institute, first because it's not professional, there's not enough qualified people, secondly, it's illogical that the Republic Geodetic Institute is doing things that absolutely have nothing to do with it. What's the connection between measuring land and keeping records of who owns it and the value of that land? This should not be done by the Republic Geodetic Institute, this should be done by the Tax Administration. The question of the value of immovableity is raised in two cases. First, it is set up when it comes to tax, various types of tax: the tax on the transfer of absolute rights, property taxes, etc. That's what the value of the land needs to give its word to the tax administration, that's quite logical. On the other hand, the issue of the value of immovableity is raised when it comes to trade in these immovable property, when it comes to sales, when it comes to the gift, when it comes to the legacy. This raises the question of transfer of property rights, i.e. other real rights to immovable property from one entity to another entity. When these transactions are re-paid, we get to the tax administration again. It is the tax administration that should, on the basis of the facts contained in public cadastrian books, determine what the value of the immovable property is and therefore establish a certain amount of tax. This should be done by the authority for which he is responsible, not by the Republic Geodetic Institute. That's why I think that, Mr. Minister, this member should be deleted, because that's why you relieve the Republic Geodetic Service of one job he doesn't have to deal with objectively, and on the other hand you're determining the principle that the value of immovableity can be determined by an expert body, which has enough qualified civil servants, which is the tax administration, the body of the administration within the Ministry of Finance, not the Republic Geodetic Institute, as a special organisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26200	The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 151. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26201	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the argument we made regarding Article 150 stands with Article 151. Article 151 has a subtitle – general assessment and determination of the value of individual immovableity, should stand, here is probably a printing error and writes – individual immovableity. In any case, the issue of the value of immovableity should be dealt with by the tax administration, therefore, not the Republic Geodetic Institute, absolutely not to be dealt with. That goes way beyond the bill's reach. Then you should have called the law - the law on state diameter, the catastro and the value of land or the value of immovable property. But you, from the bill of law, fully justify the term "value" because it's not really the subject of this bill, but then in the members you define certain questions, you say that the Republic Geodetic Institute should also deal with the issue of the value of immovableity. He doesn't have to do that. It simply reflects the very concept of the bill. So we repeat once again, Mr. Minister, this law regulates two things - the measurement, i.e. the diameter of the land and the keeping of public books in the form of cadastres, related to the facts that are determined by the diameter of the land. That's what the Republic Geodetic Institute needs to do. All other matters, judicial issues, property issues, tax matters, need to be addressed by the state authorities responsible and professional. You see, Mr. Minister, what a problem in practice you can pick up. What if the Republic Geodetic Institute estimates that one plot or one house is worth so much and the tax administration says no, it's worth so much and so much. Whose estimate is relevant? Is it a relevant assessment of the state body that makes tax payments, such as the tax administration, or is it a relevant assessment of the Republic Geodetic Institute, which as a special organisation deals only with measuring land and keeping public books on real rights on that land? It makes sense that there should be a more important assessment of the tax administration. There you even have some special departments within the tax administration that have only one job, to deal with determining the value of immovableity. You're waving your head now, but I'm telling you from practice it's because I had a chance to do these jobs and I know what I'm talking about. So there are people who are qualified, who in the IRS have certain tables and who know exactly, based on these value tables, when the house was built, say in 1960, of which material, of which the type of land, the house is worth so much and so much. Or, in 2000, it was made of both material, in that part of the city, worth so much and so much and no problem at all. But the Republic Geodetic Institute does not have any such data or would have to borrow them from the tax administration or the Republic Geodetic Institute would have had to from the beginning to determine the value of certain immovableities, which is an extremely long and expensive process and probably the Republic Geodetic Institute would not have enough qualified people to do this job. When you say the Republic Geodetic Institute, to the most extent, you have people who have completed geodesy, so the Faculty of Geodetics or the Higher Geodetic School, in 90% of the cases, it's about such frames. The establishment of values is a purely economic issue that economists need to deal with.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26202	On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26203	This whole Chapter 8, which speaks of an estimate of the value of immovableity, seems to me to be very well designed with some extreme intentions, because it makes an incredible monopoly of the Republic Geodesy Institute. The Republic Geodetic Institute shall determine the cadastrian income and that shall not be disputed. This cadastrian income serves to change the purpose of land from agricultural to construction, and that is not disputed. But you don't talk about it. You're talking about an estimate of the value of immovableity. What Mr. Martinovic explained, I don't think there's anything to add. This 152, whose erasure I suggested, there's something else that's really amazing. When I read this, I said -- God forbid, does anyone think with their head who writes this bill? You say – for the purposes of a mass estimate of the value of immovable property, whatever that means, the Institute keeps records of market prices of immovable property, which contains data from purchase contracts and real estate lease contracts. Is it possible that you will use data from sales contracts and lease contracts in the value assessment? Are those real values? People are trying, and it's a public secret, everybody knows that in contracts they write drastically different data from the ones that are of real market value. That's what my colleague Martinovic was talking about. The income management has their tables and you can write that you sold your parcel for 5,000 dinars. They know by credit, they know by class that it can't be 5,000 dinars but 50,000 dinars, and based on that table, they determine your tax on 50,000 dinars. It is completely out of your mind that you use the purchase contract or lease contract to assess the value of the immovable property.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26204	On Article 159, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member of 159 is regulated by something the motioner calls the national infrastructure of geospace data. It's a rather ghastly formulation that I think a little who, even one who's expert, knows exactly what it's about. It has the NIGP abbreviations, and then it is said that the NIGP refers to digital geodata and adequate geodata services for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which are within the jurisdiction of the authorities of the state administration, authorities of local self-government, public enterprises, legal entities entrusted with the management of geodata, legal entities using data from services covered by the NIGP and providing public services based on these geodata. First of all, Mr. Minister, I've already told you in the interpretation of an amendment that you don't use good terminology. One of those previous members, where we talked about the state border crossing, says - the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in article 159, it says - the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As far as we're concerned, it's more correct and according to the Constitution to say - territory, not space. However, you use unequal terminology. It's a little space. It's a little territory. Secondly, it is completely unclear what legal persons are entrusted with geodata management and who are legal persons who use data and services covered by this national infrastructure and who provide public service services based on these geodata. It would've been good if you'd listed exactly what legal person it was. This is how a confusion was created. I think you'll have a problem applying this article. The SRS believes that all data that have the character of geospace data must be systematised in the hands of the government, i.e. in the hands of the restoring ministry. This confirms the importance of this data for the state of Serbia and greatly reduces the possibility of abuse. You have objectively opened up the possibility of abuse with geospace data, because in one very wide, vague and inexplicable way you have defined what it is to be the national infrastructure of geospace data and which subjects have that data and which data can possibly manipulate, that is, use that data.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26206	National MP Dejan Mirovic submitted to the 160th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 160 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 161. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 162 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26207	A little more about the NIGP, getting into termology. You're really amazing with this new talk, new abbreviations, etc. Article 162 as well as all those in Chapter 11, which we have proposed to delete, refers to the national infrastructure of geospace data, that is this NIGP, which you predicted was the most important to establish and maintain in accordance with the EU Directive. What exactly should be the national infrastructure of geospace data? This is of paramount importance, these geospace data are of exceptional importance to the state of Serbia, and therefore we have proposed to delete these members from the SRS with one universal explanation that this job must be done by you from the Ministry, that it must be done by the Ministry as a state body, not by the Republic of Geodetic Institute. On the one hand, because in this way we would show that this is really a job of exceptional national importance, and we think it is, and that it shouldn't be in a certain way, I would say, free, and degraded, and on the other hand, we have to take care of the time in which we live, of the incredibly difficult economic situation, of social misery, of the threats of quitting daily and getting fired, tens of thousands of people get fired monthly. In your ministry, and in everything and in the entire state administration, there are too many employees, and now, instead of taking this important job as a state body, take over as a Ministry and as a Ministry of State you are responsible for this extremely important state job and to hire these surplus employees in your ministry, you will keep the number of employees in your ministry, but you will in the Republic Geodetic Office to employ a number of other people in this NIGP body, so here we have advice, and the board of directors and we will see further through these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26208	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 163. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 164 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26209	Continuing the story of the national infrastructure of geospace data, that is, as you said to the NIGP, since it is now likely to be used in both the public and the media to use this term, so I deliberately repeat and update and the full name to let the citizens know what it is. National Geoportal of the NIGP, which is the subject of Article 164. Our argument is the same. Just to repeat, once again, to confirm the definition of the SRS, indeed, in every part of society, our sincere determination as a state to do everything in the jurisdiction of the state, to improve the economic situation of this country, to reduce social tension, and you from day to day, from law to law, to deepen the economic crisis and increase social misery. Perhaps you can imagine - what does this have to do with this law? There is. I repeat, you were able to record the national infrastructure of geospace data to hire the people of your ministry nicely. Computers have, data has. What they don't have, they take over from the catastrophe of immovableity, they take over from the land book. Anyway, the application of this law is going to be a lot related to the download of data and that you're doing a nice job, that you don't have to fire people at the Ministry, but you don't have to hire others at the expense of the budget. We advocate that as a state, you create conditions for employment as many people as possible, but that it is no longer in the state budget, from the pockets of Serbian citizens, but that you finally start to deal with state affairs in terms of opening production, creating conditions for the employment of Serbian citizens in production and for the termination of the release of daily and daily layoffs and creating an increasing number of hungry people in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26210	The Serbian Radical Party has 30 seconds left for the parliamentary group, but you also have 15 minutes for an authorised representative. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic to Article 165. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am convinced, Mr. Minister, that these very inaccurate and vague provisions, relating to what you call the national infrastructure of the geodata, or geospace data, stem from a bad proposal. I think the largest number of laws in Serbia are being written today, on the one hand, by translators, and on the other hand by dactylographs, and that the resolution ministries in the area do not mix much. This is not the first case that the legal norm is not unclear and that the reason is a bad translation. If you look at it, Mr. Minister, a set of words that you've connected to a single syntagma -- a national infrastructure of geospace data. The question is, what is the infrastructure? When I was a kid, I learned that infrastructure is roads, a sewerage network, that these are waterways through which electricity flows, a gas network, it's infrastructure. This is the first time I've heard of data infrastructure. There may be an English word that refers to this phenomenon, but then you literally translated the word by word instead of finding some meaningful syntagma that corresponds to the spirit of the Serbian language. Look, Mr. Minister, what kind of danger this is hiding in, or what your national geospace data infrastructure is getting into. If you're reading, the national infrastructure of geospace data, here's what I can say is that it's some set of data that certain entities have and you say nicely -- public administration authorities, local self-government authorities and public enterprises, etc., but when you read further, Article 165, 166, 167, etc., you come to a conclusion that was quite precisely qualified by Ms. Verica Radeta. This is about a new public institution, a state administration institution, because how a set of data can have its own organs, how it can have its own advice, its working groups, its powers, etc., all of this can have an institution or body, not a set of data. This is how you spread the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26212	Mr. Martinovic, you took advantage of the time at your disposal. On Article 166 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you didn't believe me when I explained to the previous two members the national infrastructure of geospace data, then you have to believe now that I tell you what Article 166 provides. He talks about the authorities of the national geospace data infrastructure and says that the authorities are the advice of the task force and who is appointed to the council - representatives of the Republic Geodesy Office, the Ministry of Environmental Affairs and Space and Urban Planning, the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Information Society and Telecommunications, defence affairs, the affairs of geology, mining and energy, agriculture, forestry and water management, finance and economics, the state administration authority responsible for the affairs of statistics and authorities of the state administration responsible for the affairs of hydrometeorology and seismology. Can't you see that you yourself predicted that this council would actually hire all ministries or almost all ministries, most ministries. Isn't it logical, then, what counterpart Martinovic was saying? This is really a set of data that should be kept in the Republic of Serbia, because indeed the state must have data not only in this area, but wherever it is not arranged, it is not controversial, but not by forming new advice, new working groups etc. You could've done this on one of the good computers in your ministry, and all this information to download from those you predicted, from the ministries and other bodies that you predicted to be members of this council.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26214	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 167. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 171 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26215	Article 171 is from chapter 12 relating to geodetic work in engineering and technical areas and talks about conditions and competences when it comes to geodetic work in engineering and technical areas. You say the construction of technical documentation and the implementation of the work referred to in Article 169 which speaks specifically about geodetic works in engineering and technical areas, in paragraph 3 that for the implementation of geodetic works in engineering and technical areas, so you say what these works are, I don't have time to list them, therefore, to produce technical documentation for the implementation of works in this field of law by a geodetic organization. We, instead of the "geodetic organization", predicted that this work was done by the Republic Geodetic Institute and that it was carried out by units of local self-government, because the Republic Geodetic Institute, with its departments in municipalities, and local self-government were absolutely qualified to do this job. We don't mind creating conditions for private jobs, for private companies, for private organisations, all of this is the original policy of the SRS, in our programme declared before all of you and thought that this would happen and that we would be in a situation, but we are for a completely different concept of privatisation compared to what you did, and also this introduction of private businesses into state affairs. That's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26216	Member of the 173rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 179 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26217	Mr. Minister, a question for you and I ask you to answer after you find it appropriate to contact us - what do you need the inspection supervision for anyway? What's that inspector supposed to do? To see if the geodetic organization has two licensed geometers, do they have a license? Whoever gave them permission to work, check them out. It's even dumber that you've legally predicted that he has to have seven years of work experience. Please, someone who has completed his primary academic studies and received the academic calling of the second degree, the master, who may be an assistant at the university, should now have seven years of training, he will just come to be the inspector here in this inspectorate. It's not law matter. Then why didn't you write down how long the chief inspector should have? He should probably be retired. If you wanted to regulate everything, regulate it. How long does a financial inspector need to have an internship? Not for seven years, I'm sure. This is otherwise in conflict with the Civil Service Act and the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26218	The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Article 181. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and became an integral part of the bill. On Article 182, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26219	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, Article 182 (1) says that a fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars will be fined for violations of a geodetic organisation that has legal personality if it does not perform geodetic work based on data from the Geodetic Catalogue of the Information System. First of all, I have not heard that there are geodetic organizations that have no legal personality. So, as soon as it's something, the organization must have a legal personality. He is certainly not a natural person, and some third category that he is neither a natural person nor a legal person in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the range of 100,000 dinars to millions of dinars is an incredibly large range, which can in practice be a source of severe abuse. Whenever you want to make an abuse in practice, then the legislator makes a big range. Well, you haven't said 10 dinars to five million dinars yet. Then you'd really be in practice if everything and everything were going on. So that range has to be reasonable. Of course, there must be some range that, depending on the severity of the infringements in the given situation, there may also be adequate fines, but this range is indeed scandalous: between 100,000 and millions of dinars. Now I ask you as an educated man – in which situations a geodetic organization that has a legal personality will commit an offence not to perform geodetic work based on data from the geodetic-catastrian information system. So it's a single offense, and now in one case, one geodetic organization is not doing these jobs, and in the other case, some other geodetic organization isn't doing the same jobs. That means that in some cases you'll be able to punish someone with 100,000 dinars for the same offense, and in some other situation for that same offense someone will get a million dinars. Now, where's the justice?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26220	The amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. The government and the Building Committee accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric to article 183. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26221	The Serbian Radical Party advocates compliance with the rules, but requires state authorities and political officials to work in the interest of these citizens. Amendment to Article 183. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted for reasons already discussed by Mr Martinovic. We propose that geodetic penalties organisations be provided for what is prescribed in Article 183, which is for not meeting the working conditions, unless they provide services or charge the services they provide, not in accordance with the regulations, but in some other ways, and we wanted to reduce that range of penalties. We propose to increase 50,000 to 100,000 that is a minimum, and the maximum is 500,000, with us being responsible for and the founder of the geodetic organisation predicting that the penalty remains as much and as provided for in the bill. Ten times the range between minimum and maximum punishment really leaves the possibility of judges for violations, and we will have the appointment of carriers and these functions, so surely political membership or at least political sympathy will allow some to come to these functions and then, when speaking these measures, will, among other things, have that in mind. In order to avoid this, we suggest that this amount of 50,000 be increased to 100, the above one to remain and that the ranges be up to five times, we have also foreseen this in the previous amendment to Article 182.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26222	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 183. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the bill. On Article 184 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment is also from this chapter 17, which speaks of criminal provisions, and it's amazing that we have a penalty range of 30,000 to 250,000, and of course it's always a source of abuse, and of course it depends on the officers who do this job – whether someone will be punished by 30 or 250,000 dinars, and the difference is, you have to admit, amazing. Especially when you insert into one member everything that comes to your mind, to you who wrote this text, and then provide for the same punishment for someone who does not notify the prescribed deadline of any damage, destruction, movement or removal of geodetic whites, and the same punishment will be given to someone who does not allow the use of documentation on the waters he has. First, objectively, this is impossible to put in the same basket, because if someone doesn't allow the use of documentation, you went and you asked for that documentation and you found out that it won't allow it, and someone can be moved a mark on his plot in the fall when he's done all the work and there's no need to go to his plot before spring and he has no idea that someone moved his geodetic mark, and you're predicting the same punishment for him and for this responsible person who really needs to be responsible. You're saying these ranges are equivalent to the Law of Infractions. Our national disaster is precisely that there is no will or wit in the government of the Republic of Serbia, this does not apply to your ministry...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26224	The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic to article 185. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26225	I've asked here to reduce the amount of $50,000 fines, the amount related to natural persons, to 30,000. The amendment seeks to ensure that, while protecting the interests of the state and the interests of the interested party at the same time, they are more appropriate in trying to resolve relations from art. 46, 49, 117 and 120. It's a bill of law. In fact, Article 185 provides for penalties for natural persons, rightholders of immovable property, which range up to 50,000 dinars, and for some cases, such as not to mark the border point of the plot, does not adequately mark, fails to notify the Institute of some changes to immovableities etc. In a situation where hundreds of thousands of people lose their jobs or lose their jobs, when incomes at a monthly level are three times lower than the penalty ceiling, 50,000 dinars, I believe this amount of 50,000 dinars should be reduced to 30,000. It's another imposition on the Villette. It is not a violation whose execution may have some major consequences that cannot be corrected and which pose a great social danger. That's why, in times like this, it really takes this range of punishment to be different for natural persons. Mr. Minister, I suggest you accept some of the amendments to the SRS, since these are all meaningful amendments, so that there is no way that this law has the fate of some other laws, which are most like a spider and only flies are caught, and the hornets are breaking through. You know who the hornets are.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26226	The amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic to Article 186. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26227	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as regards the provisions of Article 186, where a natural person may be punished for a fine of between 10,000 and 50,000 dinars if, for the purposes of a geodetic organisation, he performs geodetic works and is not employed in a geodetic organisation, Mr Minister, I believe that this member and this provision do not comply with the Constitution of the RS. Why? The right to work is guaranteed by the Constitution. On the other hand, why couldn't a man who's been out of work for years do some work compared to these geodetic works being done on the ground, if there's no job and if he's going to provide for himself and his family in some way, existence? This is where you think they have to be employed. Yes, it is. That's true, and he has to be paid contributions and all that, but if it's some kind of emergency business, if it's about current jobs, emergency jobs, there's no need to make it impossible for these people to get involved in some way and do some side jobs, help. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Minister, sublegal acts, please, and I suggest you, this is not a bad thing that you're doing in relation to a comprehensive request, although there are a lot of problematic provisions that you're proposing here. Underlegal acts, the ministry must better regulate the practice of how the geodetic service will operate and how citizens will be able to achieve their rights faster. You can solve this by sublegal acts and by a certain inspection of the Ministry of Justice...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26228	On Article 195, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26229	I'm finishing a sentence where you just interrupted me. So, if the will and understanding of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all at the Ministry of Justice, then neither this, nor all other laws would be burdened by criminal provisions, we would already have codified the Criminal Code and the Law on Infractions, and then we wouldn't have had the situation that we have, but I wouldn't be burdening you with the codification of regulations, because this isn't exactly your matter, but somehow you managed to get you into this matter really well from your associates, I can't say. Although I haven't heard from you today, I guess we'll hear from you during the day. Article 195. He's talking about a deadline for coordinating the business of geodetic organisations, and we suggested that that deadline should not be three years but be a year. I claim, Mr. Minister, that a year is enough because we and now, according to the law, we have geodetic organizations that they and under the applicable law meet and have to meet the conditions that you now propose. You don't have any newspapers here. There's no need for a formal re-registration under this new law, when it's passed, to last three years. It's really time for you to stop proposing the laws here, that the majority of the congregation bring them, to boast about the number of laws you've passed. Every law hides something that if it were a good law, it couldn't be applied. Here, in this part, therefore, for three years there has been no geodetic organizations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26230	The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic to Article 196. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milorad Buh has submitted to Article 198 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26231	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 198 (1) has defined deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts. In Article 181(3), (4), (8), (9), (12) and (14) of this Act shall be adopted within one year and the remaining sublegal acts referred to in Article 181 of this Act within two years of the date of entry into force of this Act. With an amendment on behalf of the SRS, I've asked to be told -- one year's exchange of words -- six months. I think it's appropriate to shorten this deadline because of the importance of these sublegal acts and the rights and obligations arising from these sublegal acts. In fact, Article 181 defines the obligations of the Director of the Institute, which will be subject to the obligation to adopt a sub-legislative act within the time limit laid down. The provisions of attitudes and points 3), 4), 8 are important, so I think that this 14 is the most important thing, which concerns technical normatives, methods, modes of work in the diameter of the state border, content, way of keeping the register of the state border, given the problems we have with our neighbours regarding the determination of the state border.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26232	The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic to Article 199. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 199 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26233	Mr. Dulic, you'll have to scold your associates who did this report about why you don't accept our amendments, because they probably think we're not reading this, so they answered something that doesn't have anything to do with what we're looking for. Actually, what was I looking for? I asked for the removal of Article 4 of Article 199, and it refers to the assessment of the value of immovableity and application in that part, because we have now, not to waste time, suggested that the estimate of the value of immovableity cannot be within this law, nor within the cadastra for immovableity. You are telling me that the amendment is not accepted for reasons for which no amendment to Article 10 submitted by Sreto Peric has been accepted. Here you explain why Mr. Sreta Perić's amendment was not accepted, among other things, you say the Institute has already implemented the first two phases of the project through the donor project of the Kingdom of Sweden, in which it has conducted the education of state officials for mass assessment of the value of immovableity in the Republic. This is a really disastrous confession. You go before the law is passed here, you educate officials on the cost of some Kingdom of Sweden or I don't know who. So this is what I am saying in favour of the SRS claim that unfortunately, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, this parliament is in the service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You are well aware that the Constitution obliges us to do so vice versa, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is submitting accounts to Parliament. I'm afraid it's different with us. That is how this agenda is established, so are the other agendas. This was confirmed by Mr. Dulic in this report.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26234	National MP Radoslav Milovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 199. The government and the Committee on Urbanism and Construction accepted the amendment, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal representative Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, want the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26235	I mean, this is a good law. It is fully in line with all the obligations that this country needs to meet in the process of European integration and what is much more important, which is the establishment of a completely different system that should serve our citizens to have much more quality and data and services when it comes to state diameter and cataster of immovableity. All of what you've been saying is certainly in line with the declared policy of the parties you belong to. What I must say is that the national infrastructure of geospace data, as well as the mass estimate of the value of immovableity, is something that is absolutely all the things present in all European countries, so it will be here in Serbia. Of course, we, expecting this law to be passed, unfortunately it has not been filed in years past, have entered the education of people so that we can meet all these obligations as soon as possible. I thank all the MPs who participated in the debate. The fact is, of course, you've made an effort to change this law in accordance with the policy you represent. I claim that this law will be very dynamic, easily enforceable and will contribute much more to the quality of work and geodetic institutions and catastres, and will certainly serve, above all, in the interest of our citizens that we can finally introduce order in this area. Of course, as the continuity of the co-operation of this law and the law on planning and construction, which we discussed yesterday, will allow for a complete reform of these areas. Thank you again, and I hope that you yourselves will bear witness to a good application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26236	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 14th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SOCIAL TANOVANJU (specificities) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Gordana Rajkov, Saša Dujović, Dejan Radenković, Milisav Petronijevic, Zoran Kasalović, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Radoslav Mojsilović, Meso Omerović, Mića Rogović, Saša Maksimović, Jelena Budimirović, Ljiljana Miladinović, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Jorgovanka Tabaković, Oto Kismarton, Snježana Stojanović-Plavić, Bojan Mladenov, Vladan Jeremic, Mirjić, Dejan Mirić, Petar Jojić, Radiša Ilic, Lidija Dimitrija, Marina Toman, Dragan Štovanovic, Dragan Štavnović, Milan and Milić, Martinić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirić, Mirko Mir, Mirko, Mirko, Mir, Mirko, Mirko, Mir, Mir, National MP Gordana Rajkov, written on July 16th 2009, withdrew the amendment to Article 10. The bill, and MP Sasa Dujovic, written on July 25th 2009, withdrew the amendment to Article 15. It's a bill of law. On 25 July 2009, MP Dejan Radenkovic withdrew the amendment to Article 16, with correction, and the amendment to Article 17. It's a bill of law. On 25 July 2009, MP Milisav Petronijevic withdrew amendments to Articles 11 and 16. It's a bill of law. National MP Zoran Kasalovic, written on July 25th 2009, withdrew the amendments to Articles 4, 13 and 18. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26237	Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, Article 1 speaks of what this law regulates and says: "This law regulates conditions for the sustainable development of social housing and means of security and the use of funds for the development of social housing, as well as other issues of importance for social housing. ''Our amendment proposes that after the words 'and sustainable development of social housing', the words 'as a form of non-market housing' are added. We believe that it is not enough to stand just for "social housing", but to point out in this article what kind of apartment it is, which is not marketable, could also be a non-profit apartment. In the answer that I have now received from the promoter, it says that this amendment is not accepted because there is no need for an additional set, because the bill promoter has already chosen this term. We are now proposing an amendment because we believe that the promoter did not choose an adequate term. Especially here is the translation of the word social housing, which when translated really means social housing. For the first time in the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, the term social housing has been introduced in general, which has not been known to us so far. Unlike some other countries, for example, Great Britain has a social housing or social housing for over 100 years. From Second World Work to 2001 there was a solidarity of residential construction, and the so-called construction was built. Social housing. Unfortunately, since 2001, neither the fund has existed nor the funds are allocated from the citizens' gross income. I think that's about 1.3% of all citizens' incomes at the time. Since we know only this term "social housing" so far, I think that when it comes to social housing, that provision should be decided more closely the way we suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26238	The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Mrs. Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26239	I'm just going to ask you, so after the two minutes I have left for the amendment, maybe I'll use group time to explain all these amendments, so there's no reason to interrupt me, so I can comment. Therefore, the DSS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 2 which reads in the original text: Social housing within the meaning of this law is an apartment of an appropriate standard provided with the support of the state, in line with the social housing strategy and the strategy implementation programmes. Now you have part of the text, but for what we've intervened enough is what I've read. We thought that first of all, "it is an apartment" should be inserted "not a market apartment", according to what we've been developing as a story from the first amendment until the end of what we've intervened. Why it is now important to stress that this social housing must be, therefore, a form of non-market business and why we wrote that amendment. The explanation for which you rejected the amendment says that there is no need for this to be particularly emphasized because the legislator has already chosen this term as an adequate current term "social housing". Now you further explain – that this concept is used in modern theory, meaning the broader concept of social housing. I can understand that what you wrote in the explanation really stands, but we still insist that what we wrote "not a market apartment" must enter the law. What do we say that for? Simply, what theories did you use, what basis did you use by making this law -- that doesn't have much to do with what the law says? What further led us to propose this? The largest number of citizens, the 2007 data say that is 6.6% and that is half a million citizens of Serbia, and new data that is not official, because there is simply no such analysis, say that over 10% of Serbian citizens cannot help themselves, and that is why it is important for the state to help. Furthermore, we have to look at those 10% and more than 10% of the population, which are mostly those social groups that are marginalized -- so are Roma, old faces, families with large numbers of children, people with disabilities, asylum seekers, refugees. The law must also play that role not only to provide apartments for this category of persons, and I stress "not market conditions", we stress that here again, because if these are market conditions they have no chance of buying apartments, as well as the largest number of citizens of Serbia above all, but here we are talking about a particular category. It is important that you write that these are not market conditions. It is also important to allow these apartments and these apartments to integrate into society -- without it, there is no special idea. When I say that, and yet consciously I say it, because just a while ago we were witnesses of how Mayor Gilas pictured it -- how to move out the Roma living under Gazela, build them a favela somewhere, make them a part of the city where he'll put them. So they're gonna bother him here, so he won't mind somewhere else. It is this amendment that we comment on – that it cannot be solved. We're commenting that it's not market conditions. We really think that it doesn't have to go into the law here, because then someone will come and they won't know what theories are and what you used to make this law. That is why it was important for us, and that is why we have made an amendment in both the first and second terms to put "no market".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26240	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment and it has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment and it has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Meho Omerovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment and it has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Ljiljana Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Miss Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26241	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, co-worker Ljiljana Miladanovic and I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the parliamentary group Advanced Serbia's SNS. We have proposed to amend point 6 in Article 4. Point 6) says the local self-government unit can establish a non-profit housing organisation, i.e. a housing agency to implement a local housing strategy, to implement social housing programmes and to manage housing for social housing provided under the lease, as well as to carry out other activities of public interest in the area of housing. As I said, we have suggested eradicating this point, because we believe that activities of public interest in the area of housing and the realization of social housing programs can be carried out by the local self-government authority responsible for housing. Let's say, the city building directorate or the community, or the city building or the municipality. The SNS believes that under the conditions in which we live, the establishment of parallel institutions and the increase of budget users would only pose a burden to the already overburdened budget. If units of local self-government bring in a local housing strategy, plan budgets to implement a housing strategy, run a housing register, then why is there a need to form housing agencies? I asked a question, and I'll give an answer. One of the preconditions for the realisation of loans from foreign specialised sources is the Bank's credit for the development of the Council of Europe and the establishment of a republican housing agency and housing agencies at local level. Credits are approved for a period of 10 to 15 years, and under what conditions, we don't know, but I just want to remind you that credits are not a gift, but a noose around the neck of the overindebted, and we need to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26242	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so it has become an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. National MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Zoran Antic submitted the 9th amendment together. Mr. Antic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26243	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's a chance to say the general position of the SNS. For SNS, this law is unacceptable and I would say very unserious, because in 19 members to solve social housing problems and the problems of many citizens who have lost their means in transition to have an adequate standard when it comes to housing, I think it is extremely unserious. We expected a lot more from the government when it comes to this social housing law. We are aware that there is great interest among citizens, among NGOs, and this bill should have answered a number of questions. First of all, it was necessary to see the legal framework of the regulation of this issue, organisations, supervision in the implementation of the law. Then the impact of this law on regional development and the fact that a good part of Serbia's municipalities will be empty and what kind of policy will be made when it comes to social housing that the government has in some future period. There are neither words in this bill nor in the reasoning. We also expected the government to point out at least what the policy would be for the price of apartments, the lease of these apartments, as the entire concept of social housing will ultimately be for economic growth, for the complete economy of Serbia. The concept could be highly favourable to Serbia's economy. The fact is that housing is the momentum of every economy, it's an opportunity for it to be a momentum and our economy. And a number of other issues, such as: whether the government will take care of target groups, national minorities when realising housing policy, or social housing policy. What will happen to housing savings, possibly which concept the government will apply when it comes to the possibility that citizens will partially subsidise or lease or eventually build some apartments, and eventually the amount of funds the government thinks they define in this area. So there are many unknowns left. What's defined is defined in two terms. This republican housing agency has been defined in general, unlike the next environmental fund law, where you have a whole law of 30 and some members who define that area. We have come into a situation where the government is left discreetly with the right to think of it in some period, without some serious and real deadlines for the realisation of this strategy that you are announcing, these national strategies and the possibility of various non-profit housing organisations forming at the level of municipalities, the possibility of them acting on the territory of several municipalities, not defining their meaning and possibilities, as I said earlier, that at the level of Serbia as a whole we have implemented this policy. So much so that I don't spend too much time on the MPs' group, there'll be opportunities for us to check the rest through a few amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26244	You've spent a minute and a half of the time belonging to the parliamentary group, so now you have five and a half minutes and it's left for the authorised representative two and a half minutes. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes it is legally possible and has become an integral part of the bill. The People's MP, Gordan Rajkov, submitted to the 9th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, so it became an integral part of the bill. Pursuant to Article 10 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been tabled by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. The government has accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26245	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, I withdraw this amendment to Article 10, since the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted an amendment that is almost identical to my amendment in the same text. I would use the time to thank, above all, the promoter who had the understanding of the position of the SPS-JS parliamentary club on the need to name certain categories of citizens in the context of this law as well as certain categories of citizens who have not so far had the advantage of achieving housing issues. This is where I would apostrophe of the personal military disabled, the family of the military disabled and the civilian victims of the war, who, at this time and this law, are given one way to gain the right as a priority to address one of the most important issues for each of our citizens, and that is a housing issue. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26246	The 10th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic and Gordana Rajkov. Mrs. Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26247	I may also be using a little time from the MPs' group, so please don't interrupt me. I want to say, speaking of this amendment that we've submitted, at first I'm saying something about the law, since I haven't had a chance yet. I think it's very good that this law is on the agenda and it's very good that it's going to be adopted. Also, I would like to point out that on the Committee on Poverty Reduction a month or two ago, a public hearing was held, where the topic was this law, which has long been in the assembly procedure, but unfortunately has not been on the agenda so far. This was attended by a large number of interested citizens and groups of citizens of different categories, and they all supported the adoption of such a law together. Also, the Committee for the Reduction of Poverty by a unanimous decision has decided to support the adoption of this law on the agenda, as well as its vote. I call on all colleagues who participated in this to support this law even during the vote, because it is indeed a law concerning a large number of Serbian citizens, and I would say Serbia in general. Why? Because social housing implies, of course, the provision of apartments for all categories of citizens who can't get to the apartment under market conditions, but also means the possibility of encouraging housing, which is also one of the opportunities not only for the development of the country, but also for the further employment of people, but also for the development of those parts of our country that have not been sufficiently developed so far. I'd say this is one law that involves self-involved economic development, but also social justice, and I guess that's not, I guess, the best laws we can make. Unfortunately, the original text of the law did not clearly define categories of citizens who would have the advantage of obtaining apartments and colleagues Rajkov and I felt that this should be entered into the law. But, of course, that's what all the people from the vulnerable groups who contacted us during this period thought. So we have submitted an amendment, which unfortunately has been rejected, and fortunately accepted. So, it is an amendment that, with the addition of the amendments given by a fellow member of the SPS parliamentary group, has actually become an amendment to the Committee, and thus our basic solution, together with its addition, has become an amendment that has become an integral part of the law. That's what I wanted to explain. Why did we do that? There have been some more changes we've made. First of all, we felt that there could be no physical damage to the general criteria, because physical damage as a category does not exist, but there is disability. That is why we have introduced categories of those citizens who should have the advantage of making decisions on who gets a social apartment. That's how we thought they were next categories. I would suggest that these categories should be part of this, i.e. to give them the advantage of the decision-making process. These are, above all, young people, children without parental ageing, single parents, families with four or more children, single households, persons over 65 years old, persons with disabilities and Roma. We thought this was an amendment covering all sensitive categories in our society. Of course, we are aware that there is always a fear and a question which are exactly what categories and why one is entered, and the other are not. We agree that the housing strategy may need to determine which categories it is, but we have called first and foremost that our country already has some strategic documents that determine it. It is, above all, a poverty reduction strategy that we have cited and highlighted as particularly sensitive and particularly poor categories of citizens. I also want to say something about this new amendment to the Committee. I have to say, we think he's a little inconsistencies. The disability category includes all citizens of Serbia who have disabilities and we felt that they were all equal in that category. This is basically how three other categories are inserted into the numbered categories, namely: personal military disabled, family disabled and civilian disabled wars. To be clear, we have no objection to the fact that the people who participated in the wars that our country waged, and often did not participate in them, that they were therefore unequivocally involved in these wars and that they had the right to take care of them in a special way. But simply, we thought that they were included in the category of people with disabilities, because when you determine disability, then you talk about the degree of disability, you don't talk about the types of people, the ways in which these disabilities are acquired. So we felt that our amendment still covers everything, but of course we don't mind doing it the way it's done now. Our amendment also stipulates that the government brings specific housing programmes in line with the needs, but also that local self-government, in line with its needs and in line with decentralisation, has the right to adopt their own housing programmes. In the framework of these programmes, we also insisted that programmes always take into account equal regional development, but also the overall development of our country, which means that the right to such apartments will have, for example, people who can contribute to the development of a particular piece of our country. humanely used flats. So we felt that this should simply all be included in the law, and that is, at the end of the amendment, the Committee has become part of the law, and now I will withdraw our amendment after this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26248	Members of the 10th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Lazic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26249	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in Article 10 of the bill, the legislator speaks of the criteria to determine the order of the championship to address the housing needs of the person of the First Law. We felt that the points 1) to (5) should be changed and our amendment provided that they were: 1) the social status of a person or a household which implies determining the social status of household members, the number of household members, age, educational status, employment, or unemployment; 2) the economic status of a person or a household that implies sources of income and the level of income for working members of the household; 3) the health status of a person or household that implies the health status of household members, working incompetent household members, chronically ill household members, disability of household members and physical damage to household members; 4) the property status of a person or household that implies data on the property of a person or members of a household in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia and 5) insight into the previous use of non-market categories of housing, including the use of household rights and social property for all members, respectively. What did we actually try to get through these changes? We actually wanted this definition offered by the promoter to be truly complete and that the reason why we are doing this is that these later things that are going to be simplified, that if we work out these criteria well, if we define them well, if that definition is precise enough and broad enough, then there will be no problem with the order of candidates to get social housing that participate in various competitions. That's why we've only developed these criteria, along with the criteria, and the parameters, which are fully now further elaborated by these proposed criteria. In an explanation why our amendment is not accepted, the promoter wrote that our criteria are very complicated. On the contrary, we don't think they're complicated, that they're very simple, if you follow, so I've been reading everything and counting, you see that they're just well worked out, which means they're precise and well defined. When we saw the amendment that was accepted by the Committee, we actually saw that what we stated, of course, only in this part where no further parameters were discussed, was actually accepted. The Democratic Party of Serbia stands at the point that it does not really matter whether our amendment is accepted or accepted, we are writing amendments because we want to improve the original text of the law, so we are very pleased that at least this part of our amendment has been accepted. What we notice and what I have to comment on, although very reluctantly, I notice that, in this part so far, and I also see from the government's explanation, mostly the amendments written by the Committee have been accepted, and on the one hand, that is understandable. After all, these are the people most concerned with this topic, and on the other hand, it is not clear when it is seen that similar amendments have been submitted by all parliamentary groups and that it has mostly written them, the ones that have been accepted, mostly by the Committee. This shows one government relationship towards us, MPs from the opposition above all, because it is obvious that it is important who submits the amendment, not what is written in the amendment. Mostly, what has been the practice so far, this law is one of the exceptions, MPs of the ruling majority don't write amendments unless they actually sign what the government wrote.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26250	Mr. Minister, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26251	I have to react to this. That's just not true. We're absolutely not making a difference who wrote the amendment. When the Committee proposes it, we're just trying to bring it into line with something that's the basic text of the law and then we ask the Committee to help us with that definition. We've accepted different amendments. The committee only defined him closer and as an amendment, the Committee entered for purely procedural reasons. I think we as the Ministry have shown it through all the laws that we've been working on yesterday and today, that we absolutely haven't made a difference about who has submitted the amendments. As far as the criticisms you have made and as far as the arguments you have made, your member, as you have suggested, is a matter that will be elaborated through the strategy. In this law, we have made it more clear who will have priorities and define the criteria for who to become a beneficiary of this social housing, and we have done so in a broad way, where we have essentially recognised those categories of population that fall generally under the category of population that require help from the state regarding social housing. Let me do it again. The state intends that in the coming years, I would say for decades, to build apartments that will be non-profitable, which will not be for the market, which will not be sold to citizens, but will be rented, and which should address the chronic need for social categories to live in them. This has nothing to do with this other programme of this ministry that will be revived since autumn, which will include assistance and co-operation between construction firms, on the one hand, banks on the other hand, third-party citizens, municipalities and armies on the fourth side, as bearers of the huge surfaces of city building land, on which we intend to build for our citizens, therefore for the market apartments that citizens will buy, which should be within some of the price frames of one, to say, a reasonable burden for a normal family in which two members of the household work. It's something that's going to be a whole intervention to finally open up a solution to a big, huge problem that exists today, which is that hundreds of thousands of people today don't have a roof over their heads and live together in households with previous generations, because the state hasn't found and found the strength to try to solve that problem. Thank you for the proposed amendments. We're just trying to rephrase them in a way that they're, let's say, in the spirit of something that is the way this law was written. I have to say one thing to you - this law has entered the congregation procedure several times. This is the law that your MP group signed and followed in the last term. He hasn't been completely changed at any time, so your criticisms on this bill don't stand, because you supported him during some previous period. What we intend, as the Ministry, is that we all stand behind this. No one here can recognize party politics and no one can recognize any interest in party promotion. This is about a serious solution, a chronic problem that our society suffers from, which is that there are hundreds of thousands of socially endangered people who can't get to the apartment and who unfortunately solve their housing problems in very bad ways. Unfortunately, there are a lot of problems in this area. There, that was the intention. Please don't when it comes to my ministry, and I can say that's the case with most of the ministries in this government, that we're making a difference about who made the amendment, God forbid. It is only important that he be applicable and be in the spirit of the law that is written.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26252	Anyone else want a word? National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26253	If there were no confusion, I'd like to answer what Mr. Dulic said. The DSS parliamentary group stood and, as a party, the DSS stood behind the law and now stands both the party and the DSS parliamentary group. Just because she's standing there, she's writing amendments, because she thinks that a quality law must be in hand to each of us. Every political party should remain a high-quality law. What you're honoring us, and I couldn't accept it, is that the law was repeatedly in the process. Well, you were president of the assembly too, you had more chances than our MPs to put it on the agenda, you didn't. What's the problem between what you and I are discussing, when I say, the DSS parliamentary group, is what you're talking about is a strategy that will be and will enter. It's future time. We deal with the law that is, which is ahead of us, the text of the law, which is before us. Unfortunately, I don't know what you're planning on doing in the strategy. I do what it says here. Our amendment meant working on this paper called the law, and we simply couldn't predict all the elements that you would enter into the strategy. That's why it mostly comes to conflict that we're talking about what you're planning on doing. I repeat, the DSS and at a time when the minister in this area was Mr Lalovic, whose proposal is in part and the one that is now in front of us, is actually someone who is behind this law, because it is very important that this law be passed. We do not at all dispute the necessity of this law being passed, we are merely trying to influence the quality of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26254	Used one minute and 45 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26255	Article 10, as several MPs have already spoken here, lists the criteria for determining the order of the housing needs of the person of the first member, or those of those persons and citizens who are not able to resolve their housing issue on the market. As a comment on the amendment submitted by the DSS and these very general criteria tried to get a little closer to explain, then there's an explanation that it's rather complicatedly worked out. However, I expected, when the minister said it would get closer, he would say by some sublegal act, but the minister said - in a strategy. The strategy is one long-term document. Usually it's a plan where certain things will happen or what the state plans to do in 10 or 15 years. The strategy is not something where criteria can be established more closely to determine the order of the housing needs championship. I want to believe the minister made that lapus. You can't set these criteria any closer in the strategy. I am also pleased that you have accepted the amendment of your fellow MPs, where you have these misordered and defined, in fact not even defined, each criterion consists of only two words, so it is very good that you have accepted the amendments of MPs and this segment has improved. This amendment, which I tabled with my colleague Dimitrijevic, refers to attitude 3 and point 3. says – The government is closer to prescribing the conditions and criteria set out in Article 1 and 2. It can't be prescribed in the strategy, if we see here that the government will take care of it any closer. It's definitely going to be done by some sublegal act, right? He won't be in any kind of strategy. What does our intervention consist of? This is the fact that this position is – the government is closer to prescribing the conditions and criteria laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2 and, on the proposal of the ministries responsible for the affairs of social policy, health and housing, so that this law also includes who will participate in the determination and precise definition of these criteria. It is not enough and it is not good for the law to stand – the government. The government can decide that this working body or commission will determine the criteria closer, to be three lawyers and three economists. These people can't properly set these criteria. This is a very sensitive area. If the promoter already had a problem there, it can be seen that he has accepted amendments, where you have disability, physical damage, especially. So it can't be a committee where lawyers sit, but it has to be attended by people from the ministries who know the most and are most involved when it comes to all vulnerable groups that hopefully, in this way or through this law, will be able to resolve their housing issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26256	Two minutes of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Progressive Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 11. I propose that Article 11 be amended and read: "Providing conditions for the sustainable development of social housing, as well as the provision and use of funds for the purposes set out in this law, shall be carried out by the ministry responsible for housing." I will take the opportunity to repeat the SNS's principled position on this bill. The SNS considers that the state is obliged, i.e. that it is her obligation to take care of social justice and implement social housing policy. It is true that the social housing sector has not been regulated so far, and we believe that the area needs urgent regulation because, unfortunately, there are many people in Serbia who cannot afford a roof over their heads under market conditions. But we can't agree with the solution you're proposing, because from this bill, it's hard to believe that you're socially responsible. This law should not serve the establishment of 106th or 107th Republic Agency. This law must not serve for the purpose of hiring party colleagues, should not serve to increase the number of budget beneficiaries and to increase the state administration, which is already massive. I need to read an explanation for not accepting my amendment. The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that the tasks of the Republic housing agency referred to in Article 12. The draft law is not business within the authority of the state administration. Also, the competent ministry does not have sufficient capacity to carry out these tasks, which requires additional and continuous involvement of experts, which is why it is not possible to achieve the objectives of the amendment, in order to achieve cost savings by trusting these tasks to the competent ministry. Such an explanation should serve you honor. You're saying that an expert should be hired, because the competent ministry doesn't have enough capacity to carry out these tasks. You say that over 200 civil servants, ministerial assistants, secretaries are not professional, and because of the involvement of professionals, it is not possible to achieve savings, which is the objective of this amendment. We have tabled the amendment and amended it to disagree with the proposal to set up another agency. Therefore, our view is that the proposal for a social housing law should provide housing for the appropriate standard to residents, who, for social, economic and other reasons, are not able to provide it to themselves, but this should not be an excuse for inventing a new state body, inventing new commitments to fund the state body. Our view is that the ministry responsible for housing should implement a national social housing strategy. Also, the amendments that my colleague Veroljub Arsic and I have submitted to Article 17 and Article 18 are a logical trail of this amendment, and I will not answer for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26258	One minute of time was used available to the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Sasa Maksimovic and the MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Radoslav Mojsilović submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, this amendment provides for the removal of Article 12 of the law concerning the establishment of a republican housing agency, on the grounds that there is no need for law, or for the development of a social housing to be an excuse for inventing a new state body. The government's explanation for the refusal of the amendment tells us that the person who wrote this argument did not even make as much effort as it did to read until the end the arguments I wrote along with the amendment or to realize that the amendments by my colleagues Budimirovic and mine are connected. The government's argument is that the amendment is not accepted for reasons because the reasons for the amendment do not apply to Article 12 governing the activities of the Agency, but to Article 11 on its establishment, as stated in the reasons for not accepting the amendment 19, but it is not that important. It is clear here that my amendment is a logical trail following an amendment submitted by counterpart Jelena Budimirovic to article 11, and that also means that clearly and unequivocally this argument has been confirmed by someone that the amendment has not read or at least not read the argument. Let me explain the amendment. The implementation of this law requires special financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget to establish and start the work of the republic's housing agency. These are some funds of around 12.5 million dinars, which includes salaries, employees' fees, basics, consumables, current repairs and official travel and other expenses. Mr. Minister, this state administration cannot invite citizens to austerity measures, nor can it call itself for savings, while the militia spends taxpayers' money on the establishment of 130-140-150 or how many agencies, which do the same and parallel work as the ministry. I'm going to remind you of the SNS' position, which is that agencies are unnecessary, inappropriate, wasteful way of spending too little of the resources available to the state budget anyway. It would be good, Mr. Minister, if you thought about it too.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26260	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 13th amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would generally like to continue the story that clearly shows the necessity of the adoption of this law, but also the inconclusiveness in the sense, Mr. Minister, that the proposed text has 19 members, and that 17 amendments have been accepted. No matter who did this proposal, we don't want to go into it, but the very situation that 17 amendments have been accepted speaks of this indifference and your goodwill to fix all this. I am now concerned about what was just a little bit in the explanation of the amendments of counterpart Jelena Budimirovic, where capacity is being talked about. Speaking these days in a debate on a set of these laws that are within the jurisdiction of your ministry and related to some of your amendments and a story that will go into solving problems through sublegal acts, if the answer to such a question is really not a capacity policy, and then given all the sublegal acts that from the set of these laws in the jurisdiction of your ministry follow 8 days after the adoption of this law, this concerns the reason why this area also needs an army of professional people and persons who need to help you solve sublegal acts. That's what we were saying yesterday about these laws and the whole story that the law had to regulate a little bit more basic things without leaving them in the jurisdiction of the Ministry, i.e.. to you and to solve sublegal acts. In the amendment to Article 13 of the proposal, Article 2 and Article 3 are deleted and paragraphs 1, 4, 5 and 6 replace the words "non-profit housing organisation" for the reasons and the continuation of this SNS position that every legal act adopted here in the Assembly involves a large number of agencies and people employed in them, and this bill also draws the whole story to lower management units, i.e. to local self-government units. It is in Article 13 that the need to form non-profit housing organisations whose founder is necessarily a local self-government. Regardless of some situations in the existence of a winning party, or the difference between profits and expenditure, it is clear that people have to solve this area in the way you have suggested, by being employed in this sector. I must once again, as the previous colleague said, that the sector of these problems, in some very difficult times and times, had previously solved solidarity funds in local self-government units, which were made up of boards that solved this area in a purely voluntary manner, without any compensation. Even these commissions, which were formed within these solidarity funds, also dealt with the problems of the score of certain apartments, were almost no problems in the area, and that part was solved in a way that really showed solidarity results in the not so long ago. That's why we're against all of this, and the general view is that the agency needs 12.5 million dinars for its operation, we're going to vote for this law the moment you invest $12.5 million in the implementation of this law, i.e. to build apartments necessary for this area, not for the agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26262	A minute and 45 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed an amendment to delete Article 13. It reads: 'Non-profit housing organisations can be housing agencies that establish units of local self-government and other organisational forms. ''The SRS advocates avoiding the formation of new institutions at the local level, as stated in the opinion of this member. In the very process of implementing the laws in question, it is necessary to avoid the establishment of new institutions, to minimise public spending, to save, especially when it comes to local self-government units, and budgets should be used as rationally as possible. At a time of economic crisis, at a time when it is necessary to save as much as possible, the SRS believes that no new bodies, no new bodies, no new organisations, no local or state-level organisations should be formed. The ruling majority is constantly established by agencies, funds, organisations, increasing the state apparatus due to the need to hire party colleagues. With the continuing new employment of his party colleagues, the ruling majority does not care about the difficult economic situation, nor the lack of money in the budget, but is only important to meet their political appetites, and therefore this amendment should be adopted, because the formation of another new organisation is completely unnecessary and will be burdened by citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26264	Anyone else want a word? If not, Parliamentarians Donka Banovic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Milica Vojic-Markovic together submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26265	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Article 13 deals with non-profit organisations that can provide, manage, rent apartments for social housing, it's a local level. In point 3 of the proposal states that it is housing agencies, and our amendment complements this and adds that non-profit organisations can be foundations, borrowings, social and caritative institutions, which are solidarity organisations and can deal with housing issues and the law must recognise them as such. First of all, we think it's important to make a clear norm, because when you have clear norms, then you really have no misunderstandings and can't cause any confusion. In the explanation of the promoter, you say why you did not accept the amendment and say that you left room for these organizations to be identified in the formulation of other organizational forms. The DSS, however, stands at the point that it is important to define things and we believe that our amendment is of quality and that it should therefore be accepted, because it fully defines and recognises all non-profit organisations that can participate in the security, management and lease of social housing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26266	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has also become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 13th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Gordan Rajkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Verse of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26267	Since it is a useless job to convince RS government ministers that they are not synonym for the ministry, I will draw attention to some essential shortcomings in this law. Mr. Minister, if we're talking about the social housing law, then I ask you why this law does not specifically provide for the resolution of housing issues of combatants and wartime military peoples. They're not the right way. You've adopted the amendment, you say, well, I'm talking about what the text of the law is. When will we free ourselves from collective accommodations and when will the evaded and exiled persons finally live a life of worthy men and when will this country provide them with a solution to housing issues? I suppose that all the parliamentary groups, and you in the ministry, have received the demands of the Association of Sub-Committees, we have no answer to the question -- what about 100,000 people, which is 100,000 families in this association, who for their working age, at a time when this Serbia had a more socially responsible government than yours, who invested in contributions to housing funds, in which way their housing issues will be resolved. When it comes to funds in art. 8 and 9, especially 9, why did you leave the funds out of the apartment ransom? We've never found out in the last nine years where these assets really are, such apartments have Mrs., buying apartments, contracts have been closed for 40 years, and it's about a million apartments, and if the average of 1,000 dinars is a monthly payment, that's a billion dinars a month, for which since 2000 we don't know where these funds are going, and it would make a significant contribution to a part of the funds that are collected in Article 9, by solving social housing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26268	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? I ask the People's MPs and the Minister not to take the floor without applying for a word, since the People's Parliament can only ask for a word if it seeks a replica, and there's nothing to ask for a replica until the minister calls. (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: it is said of what. It's said - to what, it's a right folk's letter. In Vojvodina, it's said - on what. I apologize – for what. The MP says I'm in Serbia. At the same time, I am in Serbia and Vojvodina, MP. Vojvodina is in Serbia, MP Martinovic. You from Ruma, at the 45th parallel, you should know that anyway. I apologize to the MPs, but it was a debate between the People's Parliament of the Verica Radeta and the Minister, which concerned the adoption of the amendments. I don't know what amendment this is about right now, but it's important to me that if something should be adopted, it should be said during the session. Before we move on to the debate on the next amendment, I would like to inform the National Assembly that the theoretical time available to us by the Rules of Procedure for the end of the debate in particular, at which we are at this point, 300 minutes, but that the real time that we have is available, according to the notices of Members who have theoretical time, is 110 minutes, so I would like to inform you that, after planning the timing, it is a sign for today's session to end by 16.00 hours, without the time reserved for pointing out the injuries of the Rules of Procedure or replication. If that is not the case, then at 1600 hours I would set a break and continue to work, and until then we would try to end the joint effort in the next 110 minutes in the time that practically comes for discussions on amendments, and according to how much time is left for parliamentary groups, which remain for representatives of parliamentary groups and amendment applicants, every two minutes at a time. So if that didn't happen, then at 4:00, we'd have a break, but I think there's a good reason to end the work by 4:00. The People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26269	I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Article 27, and I think I share the opinion of all the MPs, that you should tell us whether from 4:00 p.m., after a break that would possibly be by 17.00 p.m., if today we continue the debate on the amendments under these remaining laws or if it moves for tomorrow. It's really important.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26270	I thank you for asking. The plan is today, if there is a joint effort, to end the debate in particular by the laws proposed by Minister Oliver Dulic and to end today's work. So, in case some of these amendments aren't subject to our debate at 4:00 a.m. because of the pace of debate, because of the replicas, because of the violations of the Rules of Procedure, then I'd like to set a break, but at this point, I think it's our estimate that we can make it. All right? Thank you. Proposal to add a new member. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Bankovic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Nikola Lazic have submitted a joint amendment, with an amendment, suggesting that a new member of 14a be added after article 14. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26271	Before I move on to the amendment, I suggest that we put in the Rules of Procedure the points of theoretical working hours and practically working hours, because it wasn't really clear to me your explanation, though I realized, if we were done by 4:00, then we were working without a break. I think you might have found some compromise, since there were different opinions, so that eventually the break takes half an hour, but good. This amendment proposes adding Article 14a, since this is the way and this should be Article 15, but since this is the procedure under which this is done. Anyway, this amendment speaks of it, and there are some organisational forms of social housing that are not defined anywhere in this law. We suggest that the organisational forms of social housing are cooperative construction, housing belonging to foundations and borrowings, social housing, private lease construction with limited leases and state-owned leases. I've been given the answer, I suppose the motionary gave me a valid answer, that is, the promoter says that there are and can be covered by many other forms of partnership and association, i.e. they answer to me that this list of five can be much longer, but I haven't defined it. I've defined at least five, but the promoter hasn't defined any forms. It could have, for example, been possible, with the help of the Committee, which could or could so far be owned at this stage to propose an amendment, then you could have completed my list and listed the other, or organisational forms of social housing. When it comes to this law, I have time from a parliamentary group, what worries about this law is its quite generality or indiscretion. For example, the Slovenian social housing law, I think it was brought in 1992 or 1993, has many more members, the Polish law is much more extensive and much more precise, and Poland is one of the European countries that was socialist, quite well solves these problems, and we are only at the beginning. Something else this law doesn't talk about, but it does encourage the building of apartments for social housing, and it encourages new construction. In this law I think that we spoke in principle, this law does not say anywhere or predicts that certain construction sites in Serbia are exploited, which has now been sounding empty for years. These are buildings in various stages of construction, somewhere missing internal work, but all the rough work, according to the builders, is finished. Some others are almost finished, but there is no infrastructure. Looks like it's turning out to be someone's trust fund. I think that some things you have in many cities, you have in Kragujevac, the King, etc., for which there is no reason to speak now, this may have been a chance that what is now failing, and these are a lot of funds invested, to invest a little more and to use these apartments for social housing. This way and after this law and the whole beginning of solving this problem, it will still remain that way, because I don't see that any other law can predict anything that the state can do to solve these objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26272	Two minutes and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. On Article 15 of the amendment, MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26273	Before I go to the defense of the amendment and the story of the law, I'm asking you for an apology, because I threw that "what-for-what" thing of yours, because it's simply my intention to encourage ourselves as people of good intentions in the best. I have lived since 1999 in Novi Sad, a province in Pristina, and I had to move to Novi Sad. Many of my friends say I'm making it difficult for the duchess, Lalinski, but we can't find grammatical errors. So you see it as an incentive to the really best, we'll do it both in laws and in language and wherever possible. In the same way, I mean, welcome every step of the way to a fairer society. I am thus experiencing this law, a step towards a modern society that wants to achieve equal conditions for natural needs by allowing solid housing for those who do not have the same ability to achieve housing conditions under market conditions. The idea of modern society to provide a fair and social state is in the principles of this law and we welcome it. It is amazing that in achieving these really important and urgent goals, we so little remind ourselves of our experience of building apartments of solidarity and at all a solidarity fund, so we try to look more like Sweden at the end of the 50s. I guess the reason why we need to pass on experience from capitalist and market economy, which is Sweden, not from our experience, the non-owning system of social, everyone's and nobody's property. In this sense, we need insight into the good practice of the world, but a very important lack of this law is that it is focused on creating a agency at the republican level, at local level, on creating local policies, strategies and setting up these agencies, and that it has essentially forgotten that many Serbian citizens have singled out funds in solidarity funds, and have never had the opportunity or privilege to get an apartment. Maybe later you'll be able to make up for the missing part. I just get the impression, and the impression doesn't deceive me, because it's not doubtful, and it's not in nature for me to doubt your intentions and what you want to achieve with the law, but it's what the fox who called the lion in the cave -- traces, because experience teaches me that every agency established by the government has funds from the budget, means the funds collected by all the citizens, because bread is bought by all and by those who have the opportunity to buy the apartment and those who don't have those opportunities. So tax, VAT and all other revenues that go into the budget, we all pay, and then we start the agency with that money, which, until it gets on its feet, has budget funds, receives donations, loans and other assets, and then, don't mind the term "moving" out of state control, out of the income control it makes, from the criteria on which it gives funds for something and even from the supervision of the state that founded it. The Privatisation Agency, Your Honor, teaches us in the scariest and most drastic way that billions of funds from the sale of social property, and part of the state, and also financial, through that Bank Rehabilitation Agency, and today, deposit insurance, have agreed to their accounts. There were fees paid for the award of success in the privatisation process, the 5%, all expenses, and then reduced, the change was transferred to the budget. A budget that today, in addition to such revenues, must be owed to commercial banks of 90m euros to cover the necessary social benefits. That means it's not my suspicion, because by definition, state money can't generate private. So, if you let the Agency start with state money -- these are public funds from the Budgetary System Act, at which point they stop being state-owned, so they're the assets of some non-profit organization? When I say "state," I mean local self-government and republican level. I just see it as a different form, because they are state resources. The basic objection to this law is right - that for one of the best intentions of a safe society that needs to provide decent conditions for a man's life and natural need to have a roof over his head, in fact he's using an opportunity, I don't want it to be your first intention, but I'm going to say that it's the result of good intentions and it's the only thing that really lasts. The mass of para-state bodies and organisations that spend budget money, under the firm, I don't even say peoratively, well-intentioned and necessary actions. We end up with consumers that we started, and now the agency that needs to determine -- how many regulations, how many extra agencies are there, but they say we get foreign funds, we do cutting regulations, guillotine, but what they call it, etc. You are witnessing that none of the laws adopted, i.e. citizens, are witnesses, and "the official messenger" evidence, we have not adopted here without, by the way, having the administration and the agency to do these jobs. You don't understand how much you teach what's called power, what's the point of choice, what's the meaning of democracy and multi-party people without having control over it. Not reluctant, not rude, completely unintentional -- government, the government ceases to be the government's manager of social resources and that good manager and organiser of conditions in which the economy and living citizens live. This law is not a step towards a better one. He did it on purpose, but according to the results, he's supposed to be doing it, I'm really saying he's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26274	The Progressive Group has used all the time available to Serbia. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by the MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 16(1). The bill on social housing, with a proposal to say "municipal housing agency" replaces the words: "The competent municipal authority". The SRS considers that the state must take over the role itself imposed on it in terms of social housing for certain categories of population, which, for certain reasons, can suddenly be questioned both by survival and existence. With this amendment, the SRS wants to eliminate the formation of some new municipal housing agencies and to carry out these tasks by the competent municipal authority. However, the humanity that is here is one of the main items and the idea of social housing also depends on the political mood and attitude of the current authorities at the level of the municipality and on the level of the Republic. I would like to point out an example from the Paracino municipality, where this very Solidarity Housing Building Fund assigned an apartment in 1999, December, to the family of the dead police officer in NATO bombing, more specifically to KIM, the family of Zarko Krstic. However, after five October changes, some other people came to power in 2002, without any scruples or pity, issued a solution, again on behalf of the solidarity housing fund -- to move the family of a fallen fighter. This is what should never happen again in Serbia. I'm going to meet the Minister of the Interior myself with this case, in order to sort of save the family of a fallen policeman from further shagging.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26276	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I said earlier, many things are unsaid in this law, many things are yet to come, many things will be brought by the Government, above all - strategies, programmes, measures, criteria, but the government has decided in this law to set up municipal housing agencies. She put us in a position to question her sincere intentions again. So far, we have a very bad experience when it comes to individual legal projects, where it seems to us that the problem being treated is being treated irrationally -- that there are higher costs, than the benefits that citizens have, the benefits that the population has. So that fear, the fear of a bureaucratization of this system, is of one irrationality and that is why I have submitted the amendment - to preserve that fundamental intensity of this law, which is the social justice that he must undoubtedly have. I'd like to say in this little time that I'm afraid I'm getting the impression that the Ministry is running some special policy, not taking enough care of the fact that we both have the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and that, in any case, this law would have to, at this initial stage, no doubt be implemented in a way in general social protection. It is not seen in this law and that is what is another of the shortcomings of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26278	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Petar Jojic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović, Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26279	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister has no right to call him ladies and gentlemen MPs, Article 16 of this bill defines the work carried out by the municipal housing agency and says that these are the following tasks: the collection of data needed for the construction and establishment of local self-government policies, the management of projects for the construction of apartments for social housing for renting for a specified time, the development of programmes for the realisation of established housing policies of local self-government, the management of the use and maintenance of apartments for social housing that are rented. The DSS believes that there is a very important amendment intervention here, and we have included among these agency jobs and that it determines the amount of rent that cannot be greater than 4% per square metre of the estimated market value of the apartment. The DSS believes that setting the lease is one of the most important social housing features. In order to avoid all possible misunderstandings, and as far as these misunderstandings are concerned, this provision must be part of this law. That's why we've proposed this amendment. I can see in reason that you haven't accepted the amendment because you're saying it's not accurate enough and that this needs to be done again somehow in the future. We are still at the point where we react to the text that is before us, not what will be in the future. I would simply explain why we even mentioned these 4% per square metre of the estimated market value of the apartment. We actually used the experiences of other countries that are in this area and how someone to see. One of these countries is Poland, and this model of Polish social housing is one of the best solutions in all of Europe, so we think that we, who are in this business, are ahead of the first step, so the first step would be to adopt this law, and so that we can look at what the intervention of the state in the area of building social housing, i.e. the intervention of local self-government in this part of the countries that are in this business and how they progressed. Let me just mention that in Poland, there are 276 of these societies, and they're mostly all based locally. So it's something that can certainly be of use and I think it's one of the examples of imagery. I don't see that it would be necessary for us to take our first trip and take a lead, if those roads are already paved. That is why I propose that this amendment be subsequently adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26280	50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The National MP Gordan Rajkov submitted to the 16th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted an amendment, with a correction from 21 July 2009, proposing that a new article be added after article 17. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs adopted the amendment, with a correction of 21 July 2009, however, on amendments to 21 July 2009, the Legislative Committee was not declared, and this amendment did not become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, but would be declared by the Assembly in the voting day, unless the Legislative Committee delivers an opinion in the meantime. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26281	I said I wouldn't report for this amendment, but I will still take the opportunity to briefly repeat the SNS' position when it comes to the establishment of another one in a number of agencies. The reasons for not accepting the amendments are the same as the reasons for not accepting the amendments I have submitted to Article 11. In other words, in your explanation, you say that the state administration, which in 2001 numbered about 7,000 civil servants, increased in 2008 to as many as 28,000 budget users, all in order to satisfy the appetites of party colleagues. I don't understand your argument differently, because you're saying that the competent ministry doesn't have enough capacity to carry out these tasks, so for that reason you need to establish a republican agency and hire experts. With all due respect to all the employees who had to meet certain conditions when they arrived at the workplace, the high professional prepares to include years of experience, both in the country and outside the borders of our country, and all by European standards, you underestimated more than 200 people who are in the jobs of assistant ministers and secretaries, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26282	Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26283	Mr. Minister, there really is no reason not to accept this amendment. You know, we can argue about how this social housing policy is going to be implemented, but for us, it's unacceptable agencies from national to local level, this story of co-financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, or financing all of this from the budget, which is no more than it has, but something objectively you have to look at and accept. I suggested here that sublegal acts be passed in less than a year and I suggested that this be covered by the normative part of the text of the law. The fact that you're notifying me that you've set a shorter deadline in three months, but that it's in the light of the law, it doesn't oblige anyone. I did not limit you with my amendment to bring sublaws within 10 days, or 15 days. You are now calling on your deadline to be shorter than my proposal in three months. Bring sublaws in 10 days, it's no problem, it'll even be good, but Mr. Minister, I remind you once again, the reasoning of the text of the law does not oblige anyone at all while the normative part of the text is binding, both for you in the Government and for all those to which the law will apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26284	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26285	You're right, in principle we intend to implement this law to the end and really bring all these sublaws, including the strategy, within the deadlines that we have defined. They may not be an integral part of the law, in terms of what you've described, but they're just being explained. I can accept your amendment, but by doing so, we will, of course, stick to those deadlines that we have defined somewhere in our internal agenda of the Ministry, which is a nine-month deadline, but let's keep it in the law. I ask the Members of Parliament to support this amendment in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26286	I realize that this proposal, the minister, has accepted the amendment, and the amendment will be declared in the assembly in the voting day. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular whether the Proposer's representative wants a final word, according to Article 144. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26287	First of all, I thank you for a good and quality discussion. I think we exchanged arguments and made sure that the social housing law first and foremost came before the MPs and finally was adopted in the term of office of this government, regardless of what three governments were trying to define this area. I have to say, this is a whole new area. We do not have the administrative capacity to implement them in the way they do, and for this reason there is a need to form institutions and engage people who would be exclusively professional in the issue of social housing. For that reason, the agency is defined. The arguments that say we should now redistribute some state secretaries and assistants or someone from the state administration are not standing, because I repeat, we are trying to define a whole new area. This new area involves social housing, implies issues that are and how important to our citizens, implies permanent communication, first of all, with donors. There will be a significant donor to the UN Habitat, which is mentioned here several times, there will also be a Council of Europe Development Bank, there will be different types of donations that can be found on the donation market in Europe and the world. There must be people who are professional and trained. In my ministry, one person is working on social housing issues right now. One person cannot implement everything that this law provides. For this reason, we need to approach this problem thoroughly and seriously. Nothing the state of Serbia will lose if we try to hire people who should deal with this problem in the future in a much, much more serious way. Don't forget, this country hasn't organised a social building system since 1990, there's no organised system that should provide everything that is the demands and needs of our population, especially the endangered categories that we've defined by law, and for this reason the whole system has to be defined in this way. It is, after all, an obligation to withdraw funds. We wrote this law in co-operation with the UN Habitat. We have written this law according to a model that has been implemented in all Eastern European countries, where social housing agencies and non-profit agencies have been established locally to implement the law. I have to say, as far as the local level is concerned, there are people out there who usually deal with housing problems and they won't require it, at least when it comes to local levels, any new employment, but only one much better redistribution and much better organisation. We will try to implement it and ask you to support this law, because it really requires support. The problems of social housing require urgent solutions, and this law will certainly be our answer to that problem, and I think this is really one of the things that not only should be supported in this House, but should be supported politically, so I call on all MPs to vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26288	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and detail and in general. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Fund for the Protection of the Living Centre (specificities) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Zlata Đerić, joint MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Nikola Lazić, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic, then MP Zoran Antic, Zoran Babić, Radiša Ilic, Ljiljana Miladinović, Vladan Jeremic, Veroljub Arsic, Jelena Budimirović, Stefan Zankov, Dragan Stevanović, Zoran Mašić, Oto Kismarton, Sasa Maksimović, Dragan Čolic, Milan Avramović, Marina Ragus, Vladan Batić and joint MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Nikola Lazić and Donka Banović, as well as the Committee for Environmental Environment Protection. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Legislative Committee, and the opinion of the Government. The Legislative Committee has rejected the amendment to Article 21. The bill was submitted by MP Dragan Colic, and this amendment, in accordance with Article 148(3). Rules of Procedure, it can't be debated and it's not voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, and pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26289	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really sorry that we're running across very important areas like this, through very important laws without a shred of pause. I would like to say that the parliamentary group, you see here four MPs dealing with this area from the DSS, have submitted this amendment and the amendment provides that the right of the founder of the fund on behalf of the Republic of Serbia is being exercised by the Government, and that the founder's rights are not being transferred to other legal persons, given that the fund is carrying out the tasks of financing the protection and promotion of the environment, as a public authority holder, which is confirmed in Article 6. It's a bill of law. Public authorities shall carry out entrusted matters of public interest, in accordance with the Law on State Administration. In view of the public interest in the conduct of the fund's operations, it is proposed that the rights of the fund's founder are not transferable, nor are the rights of the founders of other public authorities, such as public agencies in accordance with Article 8. Law on public agencies. Therefore, in view of the fact that the supervision of the work of the fund is not regulated by law, that the powers to exercise supervision are not defined by the material and legal provisions of this law, it is proposed to delete the position of the 3rd member, i.e. to continue to be what we have proposed as a parliamentary group in the whole of this law. So, what we wanted with the amendment is simply one harmonisation legally.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26290	Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Zoran Antic has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26291	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, so, in explaining the previous amendment, I got a little bit into this. What did we want with this amendment? With this amendment, we specify the form of the organization of the fund as the holder of public authority. Public authorities carry out confidential public-interest jobs, in accordance with the State Administration Act, I have already said. Article 4 The Law on State Administration provides that certain state administration transactions can be entrusted by law to autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade, public enterprises, institutions, public agencies and other organisations, etc. Immigrants of public authority. Public authorities have the same rights and responsibilities as public administration authorities. Given the public interest in the conduct of the fund's affairs, it is proposed that the fund is a financial organisation that performs public-interest tasks in the area of financing of protection and promotion of the environment. I have also cited what jobs are: development and professional activities related to the financing of preparation, implementation and development of programmes, projects and other activities in the field of protection and promotion of the environment, as well as regulatory and administrative procedures. So, once again, I'm not really sure why this amendment wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26292	The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26293	Article 6 is practically the first member within chapter 2 to talk about what these are all the jobs that this fund will be set up, that is, it is already established, but this law is closer to it, which will be done by all the jobs of that fund. We have proposed an amendment that is much more precise and better defined by public authority, the authority of the fund, and I will read it to you. Therefore, in the performance of the operations, the Fund has public powers relating to: the regulation of the conditions to be met by the Fund's beneficiaries, the conditions and means of allocation of funds to the Fund, the criteria and the assessment criteria for the grant of funds, the means of monitoring the dedicated use of funds and contracted rights and obligations, the way in which the Fund's operations are carried out, as well as other issues of importance for the operation of the Fund in accordance with this law. The second point is the first-degree settlement in administrative matters relating to the payment of fees prescribed by law governing sustainable management of natural values and environmental protection (hereinafter referred to as: compensation). And that the fund also keeps records of the taxpayer's payment fee. Even this third point is brand new, and these are actually benefits for the sustainable use of natural resources and goods, in accordance with principle - the pay user and the pay polluter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26294	Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, and this amendment has also become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MPs Ljiljana Miladanovic and joint MPs Milica Vojić-Marković, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26295	Mr. Minister, we have predicted that point 6 is deleted in this article. What does point 6 speak of? Point 6 refers to the fact that to provide professional services to legal and physical persons, on their request, in the preparation of environmental projects, in accordance with the contract, on the basis of which income is obtained. He cannot do services in the preparation of environmental projects, as he is not a design organisation, but a financial organisation that performs its activities and finance and assesses projects. We see that everything is possible in this law, even in Article 13, the chairman of the board of directors is scheduled to be a minister. We see that it takes the dimension of that winged Democratic Party – the small business, what is wrong with it. We predict that the fund cannot deal with these things because it collects funds, assesses projects, and does not produce projects for other legal persons. We suggest that this point 6 be deleted in Article 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26296	Anyone else want a word? If not, the Committee on Environmental Protection has submitted to Article 27 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Since there's no Legislative Committee report, does anyone want a word? The amendment will have to be declared in the voting day. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26297	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in Article 9(4), paragraphs 5 and 6 we have foreseen that they be deleted and replaced by new positions 4, 5 and 6, which should read: 'The annual work programme gives consent to the ministry responsible for environmental affairs (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry). The Fund adopts and submits an annual report on the implementation of the work programme by 31 March of the current year at the latest. The Founder may request that the Fund’s Management Board submit to him a periodic work report or a work report. ''We have amended the provisions relating to the annual programme and the annual report on the achievement of the work programme. When considering public interest in the conduct of the fund's affairs, it is proposed that the fund be held accountable to the founder for its obligations, as well as other public authorities, such as public agencies, in accordance with the Public Agency Act. What really bothered us about the proposal for this law is the establishment of a fund that is actually established by the government, on the one hand, controlled by the government, so what kind of surveillance can you expect from someone who is both founder and controller? It can hardly be called democracy in democratic states, and it can hardly be brought to life. The only way to control it here is, in fact, this board of directors, whose head is the minister who is also a member of the government, so that everything revolves in one circle that I don't think is necessary in that way. We've actually tried to clarify who's responding to whom, who's writing the report, and we're right here in this third position, attitude six, that the founder may request that the Board of Directors submit to him a periodic report on work or a report on the execution of a job. Come on, let's just say it's a big C-bar smudge, which we can freely say at this time is one of the priorities in the field of environmental protection in Serbia, because similar things, i.e. the mud that's been lying down for many decades, have been happening in Palic and some other places, especially in this warm time when huge quantities, tons of fish get hurt in these big places like Palic, like the great Tsar Bar, are actually extinct and the plant and animal world because of that mud that's sore. Now we have this very interesting situation. It's not that the polluter pays, it's the one that polluted all of that, which actually destroyed and devastated the environment, he's getting 34 million from the state to sort out the situation he did himself. Then here we come into a situation to ask – excuse me, if the founder doesn't know what's going on and has no right to get information about what's going on, as maybe our information isn't true, given the minister's reaction, I expect him to say something about it. I don't think we can talk about a responsible state, a responsible government and a ministry whose task is to protect the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26298	One minute and 40 seconds used from the time available to the parliamentary group. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The proposal for a law on a environmental fund, where "the ministry" in item 6 is added to the words "and to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. “ An explanation – since the funds will benefit from the budget of the Republic of Serbia in their functioning, we believe that accepting this amendment would be a function of transparency. As far as this transparency is concerned, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity, as citizens watch the National Assembly session to hand to Mr. Dulic about 10,000 signatures of the citizens of Ćupre and Pomorava and to read the letter sent to him by the citizens of Ćuprije: “Keep all activities on building a facility for the physical and chemical treatment of hazardous waste near Dobričevo near the village of Ćupre. In a nearer environment lives and works more than 150,000 people and we do not want you to put us in a situation that one day because of someone's mistake, we, our children, our loved ones, are the closest to being exposed to the mortal danger and the permanent contamination and degradation of land, surface and underground waters, as well as the destruction of the plant and animal world. “ If you respect the decision of the AP Vojvodina Assembly to ban the construction of such a facility on one territory, show this consistency in any of the local self - government decisions in any other municipality, including the Ćupria. We're convinced that he's going to beat his mind and that the decision of SO Ćupria is going to be no more to this project. You are expected to respect the Parliament's decision. The signing process continues and the actions are already being joined by citizens of Paracino, Despotovac and Jagodina. (Radisa Ilic teaches the petition to Minister Oliver Dulic).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26300	Delivery of petitions shall be taken into account at the time available for the interpretation of the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26301	Article 11 speaks about what is all being determined by the general acts of this fund. In the proposal, we rephrase it a little bit, but I will not read it all, but I will say what we have left out and what is not determined by the general acts of the fund, which is in line with the previous amendment spoken by my colleague Milan Dimitrijevic, about the fact that this fund must not absolutely provide professional services when designing projects, for example. In this proposal, the general acts of the Fund shall also establish fees for the provision of professional services referred to in Article 7(6) of this Act. The intervention in this amendment consists of that it is not determined or that such tasks should not be carried out by the Fund. If this stays like this, then it's open space for different abuses. Please, if someone wants to submit a project and asks the Fund for Sustainable Development or for the protection of nature and the environment, it hires experts or experts or some sector at the Fund to deal with these affairs, how do you think a solution will be made to this competition, where all other projects will be, how will a solution be made, or who will get the money? Of course, he'll get the money from that project that someone from the fund took part in. This is just one conflict of interest and can be the subject of great abuse. The body which decides on whom the funds will be allocated shall in no way participate in the design and preparation of the projects.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26302	National MP Milos Aligrudic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26303	You see, when it comes to how you conduct the session, first of all Article 27, and you import all the members 89 to 113 relating to the course of the session, whether you want to be funny when you claim that carrying some petition from place to minister should count at a time that belongs to the MP or the MP, you should not say that and thus lead us to confusion. The moment the speaker stops his exposure, he stops counting his time, and what he's walking around in the O.R., he's carrying something or coming back, it belongs to another domain of your reaction, so I'd like to ask you best not to confuse your witty intrusions, because it doesn't fit anyone in this room or those who are following the transmission.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26304	I fully agree with you, MP, withdrawing the remark I made to the MP Radisha Ilic. Unfortunately, the time at his disposal cannot be compensated because it is intended within two minutes for the interpretation of the amendment. I apologize to Parliamentarian Radishi Ilic. I see by the reactions of other MPs that he saw it as an insult and disdain. It won't be repeated. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26305	Mr. Minister, if you have followed our amendments, we have submitted several of them precisely to the members relating to the bodies of the Fund and we have accepted as a reality that the Fund already exists, that this law in a more detailed way you wanted to regulate, or define its work and functioning. The principled position of the SRS you know, against all agencies, funds, commissions and regulatory bodies, and I think at the previous session when we talked about the budgetary system and the finance minister shared an opinion with us and that the control of money in these regulatory bodies has come to a minimum. By leading, among other things, we also wanted this proposal to increase the control of the board of directors' functions, the responsibility of the director, because under this law the selection of the Fund body was defined only through the fact that they were appointed by the Government and to the term of office of four years. That's what it stands for. We have proposed that, even before the end of four years, the Director of the Fund can be resolved, along with a reasoned proposal from the Management Board of the Fund, if it is contrary to the provisions of these and other laws, statutes of finds and other acts governing the work of the Fund. I don't think this in any way ruins the work and purpose of the existence of this fund, even raises some level of responsibility for all the bodies responsible for the operation and functioning of this fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26306	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. Proposal for a Law on the Environment Fund, with a proposal to amend and read headings 1 and 2: The Management Board of the Fund shall have five members. The chairman of the Fund's Management Board is elected by the majority of the members of the Management Board, which means that it will not be appointed by the Government in office. That's what my colleague Dimitrijevic was talking about. The SRS believes that the proposed legislative solution under which the resolution minister and the chairman of the Management Board are in office, and the minister is not well, because in this way, according to us, the minister is directly brought into conflict of interest. Article 9 of this proposal provides for the Ministry to give its consent to the Fund's annual work programme. Also, this member is expected to deliver the report on the implementation of the Fund's work programme to the ministry. Since the same person is also the head of the resolution ministry and the trust management board, it is concluded that the minister will give himself consent to the Fund's work programme, and will decide to accept his own report on the implementation of the Fund's work programme. You replied on the Committee on Environmental Protection that you will not be in conflict of interest, because first of all you will not receive compensation for working to perform this function, then that it is not public enterprises and that these are some of the standards that apply in the EU. However, we do not believe that, for some perhaps moral reasons, you should do the duties of the chairman of the Management Board of the Fund, because you will have the opportunity to decide at the same time on some projects, on investments in environmental affairs, and we believe that you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26308	Anyone else want a word? If not, Members of the 13th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26309	The amendment provided for Article 13(2) to be amended and reads: “The members of the Management Board and the Director are officials within the meaning of the law governing the conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. ” The answer we received confirmed this, but there is one additional thing that says – except when it is prescribed by law or other special regulation. It refers to members of the Management Board, directors, if officials are in undertakings with the participation of government capital, they cannot be so. That's the way it is, but it's not correct. Because of this thing and a few things like this, we wanted to say that on the Committee on Environmental Protection when it came to the Committee's position on this law. But, Mr. Minister, you know that this committee has practically not been maintained. Members of all parties were unable to exclude their opinion on this law. The non-session of that committee took place under strange circumstances. The committee was scheduled, the chairman of the committee was in parliament, I can confirm this to you, because the Committee session was postponed an hour before the start of the Committee's session, so that in the afternoons of Belgrade's television, the president of the Committee would appear with his JP "Belgrade Roads" on the promotion of old asphalt recycling.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26310	National MP, before I give my word to Parliamentarian Milos Aligrudić, you made a statement in the explanation of your amendment that there was no custody of the coordinated work of the committee, or that there was no application of article 27, and that is a false claim. I ask you not to be false and to lead the public astray about the work of the committee and the working bodies of the National Assembly. The Environment Protection Committee was scheduled. The president of the Committee has never held a session where the deputy was elected. The oldest MP was asked to hold a session of the Committee and the Committee did its work, so it is not a false claim that I make by reading today's script of the Assembly, which is that the Committee on Environmental Protection did not accept the amendment. If you wish to express dissatisfaction with the work of the Committee, you have the right to do so, but I ask you to take a closer look at the words that you are addressing the public, because you question what has been said here after each amendment, which is that the Committee has made some kind of decision, arguing that the members of the Environment Protection Committee have not had the opportunity to declare themselves, nor has the Committee maintained. It happens, unwittingly, with a failure, that MPs make a lie, and it is my duty to say what is true, and I leave your will to you whether you will apologize for the false or not. You want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. National MP Milan Dimitrijevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26311	Madam Vice-President, the Committee shall meet before considering the law twice, when the consideration is in principle and when the consideration is in particular. I was talking about a session of the Committee that was scheduled to discuss the law in principle, which was cancelled an hour before the beginning of that session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26312	People's MP, you now abuse the right to receive a word on the basis of article 100, because article 100 makes it clear what your obligation is, so you get the right to a word. Please do not do this, just listening carefully to what you say about the work of the board, I was obliged to inform the facts and truths of the public, not what you said, and thus led the public astray and to question the course of this session by saying that MPs, members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, could not make decisions and that the committee had not met. National MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go. You want to talk about the amendment? The time available for the DSS parliamentary group is seven minutes, and the time available for the president of the parliamentary group is three minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26313	Before I say anything, to disprove some doubts, there are often misunderstandings about what we're talking about, perhaps some time our exposure doesn't apply to the exact same thing, so there's some kind of misunderstanding. It would be better to keep it that way than to use the qualifications on speakers whether or not they deliberately led someone astray by what they say. After all, there are also records in this home that can verify everyone’s claims. When it comes to this amendment, it's just a matter of time before that, I can't be half a fish, half a girl. We need to define ourselves for some pure solutions. Some times clean solutions are not possible, simply because of the motivation or intensities of the legislator to get some things done well. When we define ourselves to have a fund and we pass a law on it, it raises the question of the sense of being a resolute minister at the head of the board of directors and representatives of the ministry as members of the board of directors. That's not impossible under our regulations. It is in line with our legal system, to make such a decision in this home. The problem is whether it's falling off some fine thread that needs to keep our legal system in line, or whether it's about a rogue norm. I think this is the other one. So, some jobs, I don't say all of them, but most of the jobs that are scheduled for the fund, in this case, to carry out a commitment to the RS in this domain, could be done through the Ministry's administration, I say not all of them, but at least a good part of these jobs. If we had already defined ourselves as a fund, the Fund's work tracking system would have been effective on one side if the Minister and representatives of the Government had sat there. But, on the other hand, certain activities of the fund, the very ones why the fund is set up, which is why this administration could not easily work, when it comes to these financial aspects, revenues and everything else, makes this solution, in the least, incorrect. That's it. It's a question of celery. When you give an explanation in which you say there is no discrepancy with Article 9. The law on conflict of interest, that is correct, but it does not answer the question -- why exactly the minister and why the government's representatives must, in particular, be actors of the fund's management structure. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26314	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to give one explanation, I just think this is about one big misunderstanding. The Environmental Protection Fund was established by the Environmental Protection Act, which was adopted in 2006. At the time, he had a completely different structure, which included a management and supervisory structure, which is identical to all institutions of a similar type and which included a management board of seven members and a supervisory board of five members. I'm not saying that these people didn't do their job properly, but I'm saying that these people had decent benefits for that job and the biggest expenditure of the Environmental Protection Fund was on the compensation of members of the board of directors and supervisors. About 8 million dinars a year. When we came to this ministry, and in accordance with this government's policy to make administration and make administration of state affairs the cheapest way possible, we had the view that it should in some way be abolished and that it would mean that those people who professionally and professionally did their job and were paid for it, tried to carry out the professional and professional affairs of the board of directors and supervisors. The Fund is the body of the state administration involved in the collection and distribution of funds, which are collected and relocated in accordance with the policy of the Ministry of Environment. The fund is an integral part of the Ministry of Environment, an extended arm and a key driver and an enforcer of economic instruments prescribed by this ministry. As the minister who will be led by the board of directors and representatives of the ministries whose responsibilities are the possible work of the future fund, and above all there is the Minister of Energy, the Minister for the National Investment Plan, there are ministers who should perform those duties that mean that there is no overlap in funding of different types of projects, this job will work without compensation. With this law alone, we will save 8 million dinars to the state of Serbia, i.e. revenues charged by contaminants, and move this money towards solving some acute problems. That's the first win. The other thing, in this way, we're going to make a much better relationship between the implementation of the ministry policy and something that is the writing of the ministry's policy that was also the intention. There are already several concrete situations in Serbia, and everywhere in Europe, it is headed by the minister's fund, because it is a European practice. You already have a few things in Serbia. When we wrote this standard, of course, that we checked whether it was a conflict of interest and you quoted the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, Article 9, which says that it cannot be a state official director, deputy director and board member unless the Law sets out otherwise. This law determines that the minister is the chairman of the board of directors and thus we have acted in a correct and thrifty manner. We haven't broken any of the laws. We can talk about whether it was better for someone else to come and be chairman of the board of directors. I think this is the best, most efficient and most functional, and it costs nothing. It was our intention, and for that reason, we made a solution like this. Be assured that everything that this law says and everything that is the policy of the Ministry will be carried out correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26316	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the amendments to Article 13. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26317	Mr. Minister, there's a feeling that you were driving a slalom while you were explaining this. I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 and I have proposed that the position - members of the board of directors are representatives of the government - be deleted. You, as Minister and as Government, are not bound by any document, law or act to make government representatives a member of the board of directors. It is only your political will and your political commitment that obliges you to do so. Even if we say we're not talking about the fees that the board members will receive, we're not taking that as a basis and reason for the story and challenge of this at all. You'll be there to discuss hundreds of millions that you need to push through some projects, but let's put that story aside. You're in the explanation that you refused to give me the amendment -- the government appoints its representatives to the legal entity as founder; so this fund was founded by the government until now, so not all government representatives have sat in the same. With our amendment or amendment to the SRS, we did not limit you to be president in the fund or to be representatives of the government. We didn't even limit the possibility that the government would through its representatives have a majority in the fund, but in a liberal way, we left the possibility that members of the board of directors would also be representatives of science, professions, and why not electro-prived. You're talking about renewable energy sources, you're talking about energy efficiency. Why couldn't someone from some institute or university be a member of this fund? We believe that if you really want to deal with sustainable development, the quality would have more to do with representatives of science or economy, or I don't know from which area, not to limit everything to you from the government. The fact that you from the government are sitting there is no advantage, it can only create (President: Two minutes). The doubt room.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26318	The word has a minister, Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26319	I agree with you. No one says board members will be ministers. I'm just saying that they will be proposed by the ministries whose activities are related to the wider work of this fund. I don't know who's gonna be representing, for example, the Ministry of Mining and Energy. Energy is due to renewable energy sources and because energy represents a major polluter is certainly an important partner to this ministry in policy implementation and it is important that their representatives be in the fund to monitor and reroute funds, at least in the area of renewable energy sources and regarding, let's say, emergency environmental problems when it comes to environmental pollution resulting from electricity production and transport. Also, there will be representatives of agriculture and water industry, because the water industry is polluted by agricultural activities. No one claimed there would be ministers. I don't think there'll be ministers. What is certain by this law is that the head of the fund will be the minister in order to give one seriousness to the work of that body. I am sure they will propose professional people, and whether they will be state secretaries, assistants or representatives of institutions. I'm sure that fund will work in accordance with the declared objectives. So you're absolutely right. When the government representatives are told, the government can ask for its representative whoever it wants, and that is the government issue, and within the government itself, we already have an agreement that we are jointly trying to build a fund that will tomorrow be a fund for environmental protection and energy efficiency. The representatives of the Ministry of Mining and Energy should also sit inside. That's our intention. We fully agree on that, only by accepting this amendment would you delete one provision that defines who are members of the board of directors. I don't think it's legally perfect, and an entire member would be inadmissible. That's why we refused, because I essentially agree with you about what you were going to suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26320	The right to replication, apparently, is not understood by the applicant of the amendment and the minister. Right on line, MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26321	I have not, Mr. Minister, insisted that members of the board of directors, but I ask one question, can we expect someone from the local self-government to be elected to this fund and considered a representative of the government? Whether local self-government can be considered a representative of the government, since the law stipulates that only government representatives are there. What you just said is absolutely on the side of the arguments I present, the government appoints a board of directors and the government absolutely has control over the fact that they will be members of the board of directors. That is why you do not have to further restrict, that is, the imperative of being representatives of the government. By erasing this position, you will not prevent the government from naming all representatives of the government, but you will indeed remove one shadow and doubt, which opens and appears in the process of debate, if your intention is positive.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26322	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26323	Mr. Minister, the DSS is completely in agreement with what Mr. Stevanovic has said in the previous amendment and we fully support what he said, he has expressed our opinion as well. In Article 14(1), points (6) and (7) should be deleted, according to the DSS, and replaced by new points with the new text. Point 6 would be - adopts the final account and the audit report of the fund. Point 7) - decides on the use of funds by the Fund in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in accordance with this law and the Fund's work programme. We think it should add a new point, point 8), which should read - appoint and resolve the external auditor. By predicting so far points 8 and 9), it becomes points 9 and 10. So, what is our position and why we have submitted this amendment. We believe that the Fund's Management Board must adopt reports on the audit of the fund, must decide on the use of funds in accordance with the prescribed conditions and the manner established in accordance with this law and the Fund's work programme and we believe that it should appoint and resolve the external auditor. In general, this chapter -- the revision here is practically not touched in this bill, and that is why we are, and the following is what we have put forward in the amendments so far, a vision of what needs to be fixed in this bill, and we felt that a new chapter number 6 should be introduced, and that chapter refers to the revision. Just one more comment, in addition to what has been led here as a small debate, I am also a member of this Committee on Environmental Protection and I was indeed disabling myself from using my right as an MP from Rules of Procedure, Rule 27. I've been denied my opinion and comment on this law in principle. What Mr. Dimitrijevic was saying, maybe it was a lapus, it's true. Even at the first session of the Assembly, I checked in with the Rules of Procedure and brought all this out. There are also stenographic notes about this and that we are not misleading the public whether a session was held at which MPs pleaded on this law in principle or not. It wasn't held, I argue, it wasn't held, it was scheduled and cancelled an hour before it was due to be held.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26324	The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26325	This amendment applies to Article 15. Article 15 speaks through seven points about all the obligations of the fund manager and for which all the jobs are in charge. The amendment is that we are practically intervening at point 6), as point 6) reads - the fund's director adopts an act on the internal organisation and systematisation of the fund's jobs, with the previous consent of the Management Board. Our amendment consists of erasing - with the consent of the Fund's board of directors and replacing those words with words - with the consent of the Government. Namely, this is about doing entrusted business for the state administration. The Fund is a legal person, but it does entrusted tasks of the state administration, so that all employees in this fund are subject to the Civil Service Act, and the internal organisation and systematization acts must be given by the Government. However, if Minister Dulic remains with the minister, i.e. It will be headed by the board of directors, then practically the same, since it will be headed by the board of directors, and is also the minister, or head of the ministry, which is, in fact, the government's body that will give consent to the systematisation and organisation. So if she stays on her side to not accept these changes, then it's practically the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26326	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, which the proposing representative accepted, has submitted, but since we do not have a statement of the Legislative Committee, this amendment will be voted on in the voting day. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by MPs Saša Maksimović and Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic, followed by Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26327	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr Minister, Article 16 paragraph 6 of the Bill's proposal – you have provided services to legal and physical persons for work in part-round work of the Fund, on the basis of which the Fund receives income that will be used to finance environmental protection and promotion. The amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SNS shall overlook the erasure of the item 1 point 6). The reason for eradicating is certainly a conflict of interest which the Fund will come into, especially as Article 7(1) of points 2) and (3) for the activities of the Fund is indicated – the initiation and financing of projects from the work of the Fund, the intervention in relation to the financing of environmental protection and renewable energy from the funds of foreign states, international financial institutions and bodies, as well as domestic and foreign legal and physical persons. The Fund will provide practically services related to the financing of the preparation and implementation of development programmes, at least as you have written, projects and other activities in the field of conservation, sustainable use and protection and promotion of the environment, as well as in the area of the use of renewable energy sources to legal and physical persons, and then grant them those resources. Now, Mr. Minister, try to convince me that there won't be any forsaking of entities using services from that same fund, or people who will be employed in that fund. I assume you're going to say that the funds are being given on the basis of a public competition that's being announced by the fund, and it needs to provide security for all those who apply to the funds of the fund. Believe me, there's a great chance it won't be like that. Unfortunately, practice has proved to be quite the opposite. Another argument I found in article 6. The proposal for a law that speaks of the powers of the fund, so in paragraph 1 of point 2), is to identify the nearer conditions to be met by the beneficiaries of funds, conditions and means of allocation, criteria and criteria for evaluation of projects, i.e. the requirement for allocation of funds, the exercise of supervision of project implementation, the way in which the dedicated use of funds and contracted rights and obligations is monitored, as well as other tasks of importance (President-in-Office: MP, time has been used. One more sentence. Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26328	There is a word from MP Milan Dimitrijevic, according to the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26329	Mr Minister, you see, when, on the same member of the law, two parliamentary groups, which obviously and certainly had no contact with the writing of the amendments, submit the same amendment in the same text – this means that the problem exists and means that you have to solve this problem. Now we're going back to that story earlier when the vice president told me that the Environment Protection Committee was held, when it was a principle debate, and we couldn't get an opinion. How could she have been held when we didn't raise an opinion? That's what I warned you about, not that the board was held. When there was a debate in particular – I didn't mention it. So, when it was to be discussed in principle, the Committee's session was canceled an hour before the start, without any explanation, and we couldn't respond to the law. Since things stand with this law, he'll probably be voted. Again, I warn of one problem, which my colleague Milica Vojic-Markovic pointed to, and that is the problem of the Imperial Bar. We know the principle – a pay contaminant. The money from the budget is segregated. What's done? The minister received a question about ten minutes ago – he did not give us an answer. We expect him to give us an answer by the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26330	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26331	Mr. Minister, the DSS has done this law very detailedly because we believe that this area is extremely important to this country. We will really support the Ministry and the Minister at the same time that he is working in these areas and passing laws here, by very seriously analysing the proposals and trying to clarify our amendments where he is inaccurate and simply trying to correct the text with our amendments. The amendment to Article 17 is, in fact, the product of all this I'm saying. He's actually trying to get one thing, which here is quite inaccurate, to clarify. We have replaced the word "statu" with the words "fund regulations". Then, point 10) we felt that it was necessary to delete. What were we thinking? Because the promotion of sustainable economic activity, i.e. sustainable economic development, is covered by points 3), 4), 7) and 8). Then, in point 12, behind the words "and other activities" to delete and add the words "including demonstration activities". Also in point 13), the words "accessants" are deleted beyond the words "when the cause of the incident is unknown or in cases that exclude the responsibility of the pollutant". Point 14) We also felt that it was necessary to delete. Demonstrative activities weren't accurate, they weren't covered here, and we thought they should be covered. Then, the co-financing, recycling and recovery of polluted space, resulting from the accent, when the cause of the incident is unknown or in cases that exclude the responsibility of the polluter, as this is the government's obligation in accordance with Article 66(2). Law on environmental protection – The government therefore needs to adopt and finance a recovery plan when the polluter is unknown. Then, the recycling and recovery of historical pollution, for the reason that it is a government obligation, is also in line with the Privatisation Act, under which funds to eliminate environmental damage, that is, historical pollution here, are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, funding from privatisation under that law would have to be the fund's income, which the proposer did not foresee. The financing of the resolution of historical pollution would lead to a blockade of the core activity of the fund, as the important and necessary means for the resolution of historical pollution would go beyond the possibility of the fund to carry out the work established by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26332	50 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? If not, National MP Zoran Antic has submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I submitted to Article 17 concerns energy efficiency, a very important but neglected area in our society. From a recent exchange of views between Mr. Stevanovic and the minister, I was under the impression that we would also have a representative from the Ministry of Energy in the board of directors. Therefore, I believe that this amendment of mine could have been considered, because it was not necessary to literally use funds – the members of the Environmental Protection Act prescribe. I think there are many areas in which the Ministry of Environment should work and be complementary when it comes to energy efficiency and monitoring, and in research, and in the development of energy efficiency, because we are not only in relation to European countries, but also in terms of countries in the environment – a country that has a very low energy efficiency. Obviously, some legacy from the previous period will have to change. It seems to me that this was also an opportunity for the Ministry to commit directly, and the funds are enough in the Environmental Protection Fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26334	Does anyone want a word? If not, MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26335	Mr. Minister, we really had a good intention, a positive intention with this, but the amendment was rejected. I can't quite agree with the explanation that it's said here that energy efficiency doesn't have much to do with the principles of conservation, or environmental protection. Finally, if the finding, or term or category of sustainable development is acceptable and is brought into the context of environmental protection, then this includes also renewable energy sources, but also energy efficiency. Serbia today has a real problem with low public awareness of the need for improvement in these areas. It's not just with children, it's also with those who educate them and those who raise them. I'd banalize the example, here, I'll be banal, but I'll do the digression. You have a problem getting a primary or secondary school director to replace the same school's carpentry and to understand that it's in the context of energy efficiency. I'm giving you a banal example. I believe that if you have already identified the funds in this fund, you will and you want to finance projects, it is really not a sin to fund projects that will raise awareness in Serbia about the importance of energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, sustainable development, or environmental protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26336	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26337	This would be a good amendment if we had the authority to deal with energy efficiency. Unfortunately, the Law on the Protection of the Environment, where we insisted in talks with the Ministry of Energy to take over and that jurisdiction, did not reach an agreement. The problem with energy efficiency is that we still do not have adequate legal solutions in which this fund would be filled with energy inefficient activities and that is what is the general problem. I purposely said that we would also love our ambitions, this ministry, that one day this fund would be a fund of living environment and energy efficiency, because this is also the case in a large number of countries in Europe, and it proved to be functional. Until the energy law is passed that would define the charges of energy inefficient plants and until the relationship between this very important area is defined, which is certainly unscrupulous with the environment and the protection of the environment on our part, we unfortunately do not have opportunities. It's our intention to get to that. When this happens and energy defines a new law that recognises energy efficiency, I'm sure there will be a change in this fund or a new fund, and I can't go into it right now, but if it's agreed to be part of this fund, then we'll change the name of the fund and then we'll bring, among other things, the amendment as you suggested. While that's gone, we don't have the legal basis to define it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26338	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and the protection committee... I'm sorry, for the previous amendment, MP Milos Aligrudic. The time for the parliamentary group is 6 minutes and 10 seconds and 45 seconds for the president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26339	So here we have suggested something that may have seemed strange to the promoter, that the fund could be established, rather than founded, and as a stock society, but of course the decision on it is made by the founder, and the founder knows who it is, the state of Serbia. What's this all about? This would be in line with the elemental logic that if the fund is to protect the funds that protect the environment, and it can also be in the form of the capital of that fund, I see no reason why this capital could not be found in the form of a shareholder society, and this brings us all back together to the story of the role of ministers and government members in the fund itself. In fact, if we have defined ourselves as having members of the government in the fund itself and that the fund deals with something called capital and that it can be its property, this is the best crown proof that members of the government and ministers should not be at the head of the fund. Why don't you accept this amendment? Not because the state administration's affairs are entrusted to the fund, so that's the key reason, that can't be the reason, read the rules of everything, and how it can be a job in the state administration to whom it can be trusted. That's not true. It's just that we wanted to be consistent with our previous position, and if you want to have an organization that manages effectively the means to provide these state affairs, then it can be done this way. That was our idea. Of course, it's a whole question of what you're going to define yourself for, but this isn't impossible. This is even quite consistent with our position that the ministers should not... Watch out, the Minister's salary on the board of directors is the minister's salary in your place, there's no other money you're going to get, you're doing it for free. That 8 million savings you were talking about, that's true. But the question here is not whether we're going to save eight million dinars, but the question of the elemental trust that shouldn't be in these things, not because I don't trust you, Mr. Dulic, is quite the opposite, but because the state and the people shouldn't trust the one system that controls themselves. That's the whole story. Whether these eight million dinars will eventually be exposed as elemental savings or put into effect as the necessary cost for an efficient control system, that is another question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26340	Two minutes and 40 seconds of time spent by the parliamentary group and used up a lot of time for the president of the parliamentary group. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. The government and environmental protection committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 22 of the amendment, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, which was adopted by the Proposer, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. The government and environmental protection committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted the 23rd amendment. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted an amendment proposing that the new chapter 6 and the new article be added after Article 25. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26341	So, Mr. Minister, we've offered you a series of solutions by introducing a new member of the 26th to make it as transparent as possible. Mr. Minister, transparency is an excellent means of disinfecting society. If there's no transparency, then society isn't in good shape. We have offered you here that the fund is obliged to keep business books, accounting records, annual financial reports, and that everything is governed by the law that exists with us and to introduce an external audit institution. You have refused this amendment, I will not read the argument, with one clear intention that you, in fact, doubt it, express your suspicion, will not have any external insight into the state and way of spending resources, writing projects, assigning jobs and all the things that this fund has to do. You have once again shown that you will not respect the good will of the DSS MPs when they offer you a concrete, objective solution in order to fully satisfy the matter regarding public and transparency. Please reconsider and read this amendment carefully and accept this amendment because it is in our general interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26342	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted an amendment to the title of Chapter VI. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26343	I'm sorry, maybe I didn't hear right. Is that the new chapter VII? Or is that later? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26344	National MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted an amendment proposing that the new chapter VII and the new article be added after Article 26. Does anyone want a word? National MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26345	I'm sorry, I thought this was a previous member. Here, as you have seen, we are predicting the introduction of a new chapter bearing the title - supervision. My colleague Misa Dimitrijevic spoke of a new chapter - revision, and this is a proposal for a new chapter - supervision. Why? Because there are no audits or surveillance anywhere in this law. Article 12, which lists the fund's bodies, says - the fund's bodies are the board of directors and directors. Somehow we're already used to it in the draft laws, when the board of directors are there, then there's a supervisory board. Therefore, this law does not foresee the formation of a supervisory board. The main function of the Supervisory Board is to supervise the work of an institution. Then, in an explanation, because there is an explanation why the ministry does not plan to form a supervisory board, it says -- as one of the measures of rationalising business, in the context of the global economic crisis, a reduction of the control apparatus is proposed. So this bill reduces the number of board members from seven to five, and provides for the full abolition of the Supervisory Board. So this is a body that will work without any supervision. If you have reduced the number on the board of directors, then you could have reduced both by one member and the board of directors. But to leave the fund unsupervised, it's simply outrageous. The fact that you may have reduced, let's say, the cost of three sort of compensations to the members of that supervisory board will come back badly, because the rest of the abuse and accidental use of state resources in trusted transactions in this body can cost a lot more. So this amendment speaks of the supervision of the fund's work in the entrusted affairs of the state administration being carried out by the Ministry and there are still a few views there, but I don't have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26346	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic together submitted an amendment to Chapter VII. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26347	I tried to say a word or two earlier, but Mrs. Donka Banovic, as a member of this four-member DSS group, who made this series of amendments, actually said what we wanted. We have seen the bill that some things are not simply referred to in some normal democratic order, when we talk about the revision, when we talk about the surveillance, when we talk about the public of work, and then we simply thought that it was very important, and so we introduced new members and new chapters, we gave them names, six is review, seven is surveillance, so the next article is 27, so this is the new chapter, the name of Chapter VI - the public of work, is replaced by the new title of chapters that reads - the public of the work of the fund. Why did we mention the public work of the fund? As a parliament, we adopted several very important international documents that we have committed to sign, concerning environmental protection, and the minister represented one of these to us in this Parliament, so we felt that the public is in work and that both in decision-making and in decision-making for the area of environmental protection. Also, one of the basic rules of democracy for which we have defined ourselves from the DSS parliamentary group, and it seems to me that you are not, because you are constantly leaving out the public, is that the public has to be aware of what is done in the state bodies and in the institutions of the state, so it is very important that this chapter - the public of the work of the fund be in this bill. It is especially important to note that the previous two chapters we have proposed - VI and VII, we have really explained in one quality way. I don't see why you don't want the public to be something that's simply a democratic principle, one of the needs of this area of environmental protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26348	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26349	There's only one technical matter here. As you can see, Mr. Minister, we didn't have an amendment to the level of penalties that were threatened to fund employees if they didn't deliver certain things to insight or unwittingly do their job. We simply felt that the previous amendments that speak about the public of the fund, which talk about the external audit, about the transparency of the fund, and we came here in the situation that criminal provisions are in part seven, and we've introduced two new acts, so the criminal provisions are part nine, and that's actually one technical thing. How come you didn't plead on the previous two of our amendments? Then it's completely pointless that he's talking to me about this ninth part right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26350	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Donka Banovic together submitted an amendment to Chapter VIII. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26351	Mr. Minister, I think the deadline I predicted was good. I don't want to talk about this amendment. I would use these two minutes, which I have in my Rules of Procedure, to sort of make an appeal to you. I'd like to ask you just for a little attention. In the process of passing the law, or set of laws relating to environmental protection, my colleague Marina Ragush has launched a topic here in front of you and has also tried visually to draw your attention to an environmental problem, the environmental problem that is happening in my municipality, the Surdulica municipality. By the way, that also applies to Knauf's industrial waste dump. I personally think, and I believe that you have received some information about this, you have some knowledge. I'm not saying this from the point of view of disputed investment, investment is really good, and everyone's standards, except for standards in the field of environmental protection, respected. Citizens of Surdulice and I really expect you to take all the measures that are in your jurisdiction and your ministry, to run certain mechanisms, to determine the actual state, I'm not talking about air monitoring and air pressure. I'm talking specifically about the dump of industrial waste in an open-air factory, and it's a really serious problem that every day, retail and physical, feels in a city where 20 and thousands of people live. I think you should do this. It seems to me, I have information that in the meantime you were at the stand of that same factory at the construction fair, you know who and what it is and I expect that in the interest of the citizens, I repeat, my municipalities your competent authorities are interested in that case.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26352	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26353	When the National MP Marina Ragush came out with that problem, she responded urgently to the inspection. We gave information at the time and it was all public, that Knauf was then in some sort of remont and that was why he had a reason to explain whether the material now served for the process of production. Anyway, I think she was happy with the answer back then. I don't know at this point, and of course the inspections can get into the field to determine the actual state. They have opened this question which is essential and which is some sort of answer and response to MP Ilic and to all those who are essentially not helping us to come to a solution to a huge big problem that we have as a state. This is the question - where to put off on a proper, organised, modern and serious way of industrial waste that comes from across Serbia in production processes? Our intention was to open one plant that would be a state-owned plant, in which such types of waste would be stored in a good way, neutralised, recycled, etc. And if every time we find a location where this is possible, which meets all those standards that exist, which are modern technologies, which don't pollute the environment, they don't pose any danger to people's health and are located in those places that are infrastructureally and sufficiently remote to human settlements can meet those standards, if every time someone because of local political stories or current political interest to raise citizens, and I claim that these people who signed this are manipulated and that they signed something that they didn't even know what they were signing and that they were scared before that, and therefore, I repeat it because of the daily political interest, we will never find in Serbia where they can, among other things, happen. We have now opened one question, a very large number of factories, 440 locations in Serbia exist where industrial waste currently stands, generated decades ago, without real supervision and which poses a potential environmental hazard. We in the state of Serbia do not have a place where we can handle it in an adequate way and any attempt to find that place is mostly undermined by the action of some political parties who are trying to earn some political point, allegedly protecting the health of the population and the environment, and that we are coming with experts, with scientists, trying to explain that it is not true that these drives are in any way jeopardising the environment. We will find that location and we expect that they will always have something against, especially the people who live near it, but we will insist that we assure these citizens and the entire public of Serbia that when this ministry wants to invest its money in such an object that everyone has to be sure that it will be safe to comply with the basic standards and criteria of the EU, because such plants exist everywhere in Europe. The alternative is to take it now and export it all and it will cost hundreds of times more than if we in Serbia had some kind of drive in which we would deal with these substances in the way domestic legislation predicted, as international standards also predict. So, if you have a particular problem, please contact the Ministry, please and the municipality, whoever, we will always meet the citizens and we will always determine the true state of the environment of whatever plant in Serbia is concerned, but help us to get to the drive in which Knauf and all other Knauf problems will be solved in Serbia that generate waste and do not know what to do with it. Now, that's just what my call is, and this petition, we're really going to meet these citizens, 10,000 of them signed it, and what are we going to do? Next time we pick another location, your party or some other party will organize citizens again, because they think they can win people over for some of the next local elections and they'll ruin something that's a national project. When we stop with all the expertise we know and the authority of the Ministry and say, people, there is no danger of the environment, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't lie to people, don't scare them, because there is no danger, of course, no one listens, because it's more important that political interest than something that is strategic thinking about how to deal with that problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26354	Right on the line, MP Dragan Stevanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26355	Mr. Minister, my last intention when it comes to Knauf is really to score cheap political points, if that's what you wanted to put on my burden through your discussion. Namely, the Knauf factory is, I repeat, extremely good at economic terms investments and its presence in the territory of the municipality of Surdulica has felt the whole city. I don't want to argue with that, but all standards are respected, until there's a standard in the field of environmental protection. You know very well what treatment such and similar factories have in Croatia, for example, so they are forbidden to work for a certain period. You're misinformed. This factory works, and the industrial, or dump of industrial waste that was then spoken of to this day has not been moved, it's the same, it's just not as high as it is, because the engagement of construction waste is largely increased, or the height has been shot down, and the volume is either the same or higher. I don't think and I don't think that the problem is easy to solve, but as a citizen of that municipality and everyone down there, we really want to feel that the state and the competent state authorities are doing something about it, because the status quo from the moment Mrs. Ragush referred to you from here, so to this day, nothing really happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26356	National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Bojan Mladenovic wants the word, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, available all the time, for 15 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26357	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Serbian citizens, four laws are joined into one item of the agenda so that, in the context of my presentation, I will talk about the cataster, land, planning, legalisation, sustainable development and environmental protection. As regards land management, it covers a number of activities related to agricultural holdings, mining, the management of large fixed goods, construction and management of municipal systems and facilities, forest and water management, spatial planning and planning and planning of settlements, land policy implementation, environmental impact assessment and the like. The most important part of land management is investment, whether it is invested in agriculture, i.e. in the production of warfare, fruit growing, wine growing, livestock farming, vegetables, etc. or invest in land processing by infrastructure systems, water, sewerage, heat pipeline, gas pipeline, electricity, PTT, in order to enable the land to build apartments, business facilities, industrial installations or public, school, cultural, health and other facilities. The multi-purpose immovableity cadastre has several essential functions. I'd like to mention some. The catastran is important for each individual and for the community in general. The benefits of property records in multi-purpose motifs are seen from the following elements: property management, ownership transfer, credit security, demographic analysis, development process control, etc. The security of loans and loans, land is the best guarantee of mortgage loans, which banks approve of improving agricultural production or building business, housing and industrial facilities. Updated property motifs allow easy traffic of real estate, then reduction, and elimination of disputes and litigation. The most common disputes in Serbia, unfortunately, around the border, facilitates land reform, parceling, consolidation and so on and enables improvement of spatial planning and infrastructure development. When we talk about laws, there are a lot of laws in Serbia that are quite good, however, it is very important whether they are implemented or not. It's the same with spatial plans. Serbia has a lot of good experts in this area, a lot of good spatial plans, but it is very important whether they are realised or not. If they're standing in drawers, they're no use to us. Spacious and other plans can solve many problems in Serbia. The city can be resolved, i.e. to prevent the spread of further urban chaos. You can get in the way of the construction mob, there's a lot of things that can get in line. We must not allow the construction to continue unplanned, to occupy green surfaces, sidewalks, to build gauges of objects much larger than is allowed. The whole of Belgrade, and I believe it is similar in other cities, is one big construction site. The buildings are built without any plan, window to window, one of three, the other of five, the third of seven floors, one in glass, the other with facade, the third in stone, etc. There's got to be a plan to work houses, buildings, streets and settlements, that's got some order, some style, and make them look nice. Make sure the land is used as rationally as possible. When I mention construction, I'll mention construction facilities. Objects in construction, i.e. their legal status is not specifically considered in theory and practice in our country. However, in recent decades in our country, there has been a sudden increase in interest in buying or selling buildings in construction, which has resulted in many problems, since this area is not sufficiently and accurately regulated. Namely, the demand for apartments and business space, especially in large cities, is extremely high and the offer is insufficient, which forces potential customers to buy real estate during the construction phase. Also, investors offer lower prices for the purchase of buildings or specific parts of the building, which is a special attraction for customers. In particular, it should be pointed out from which point the facility may be considered an object in construction. In a theoretical sense, those words may be considered such an object from the moment of obtaining the rightful approval for construction, i.e. obtaining a certificate of receipt of documentation for the launch of works and of the actual launch of works, and ultimately by obtaining the applicable authorisation. However, it should be pointed out in particular that a large number of objects for different reasons never get a used permit, and whether they are always considered buildings in construction or only within the deadline defined by the building approval for completion. As for illegal construction, it has always been, but exclusive development has been the beginning of the last decade. As the state and its economic and investment power deteriorated, so did lawless construction grow, so that all forms of legal construction would completely prevail in that time. What was built without a building permit is the most guilty state. It was built on agricultural land, on the edges of the cities, in the center it was built as it arrived, inspections did not do their job and did not react where it should or should not be built. A large number of objects that have not been legalised so far are due to unresolved property-legislative relations. Non-compliance with the rules and rules of spatial and urban planning has also caused a large amount of illegal construction, which has not bypassed even national and regional parks, areas of special natural beauty, spas, tourist regions, protection zones, water supply accumulations, etc. As for the legalisation of objects, the SRS advocates that all objects are legalised regardless of the date of construction. The price of legalisation is a very important factor and it will affect how many objects will be legalised in Serbia. The money collected from the owner of illegal facilities should be invested in infrastructure equipment. For the owners of objects that have made their own infrastructure, the cost of legalisation should be significantly more favourable. The current price of legalisation, between four and a half thousand dinars and 24 thousand dinars per meter per square metre, depending on the location of the facilities, is extremely high and if the current prices remain very few citizens will book their houses, apartments and buildings. At a time of major economic crisis, such prices are unacceptable and unrealistic in relation to the receptions and opportunities of Serbian citizens. Contrary to cities, in rural areas there is a completely different situation, where construction is weak or in no way carried out. In addition to these poor constructions and living conditions, it is difficult not to mention the ransom prices of fruits, vegetables, wheat, cattle, milk that are extremely low, agricultural pensions of just a few thousand. The villages are disappearing, there's fewer of them. There's something urgent to be done. Also, a small number of children are born in the country, the white plague is increasingly present and that small number of newborns leave the village because the state does not retain them, does not offer them the conditions of a decent man to stay in the country. As a result, spatial plans are extremely important because they can enable villages to re-inhabit, build water lines, build a sewer system, build objects of culture, health, PTT, banks, various services, building facilities for sport and recreation, protecting natural rarity and developing rural tourism. We have a situation today that in cities there is too much overcrowding of objects, with a tendency to keep growing, and in the village there are insufficient. It can balance development and prevent entire villages from disappearing, preventing their extinction. As many development projects and plans as possible should be done, but also taken into account the environmental impact, as well as to be in line with the objectives of the country's national sustainable development policy. At the beginning, the starting idea of sustainable development was only about natural resources and the environment, and the basic thesis was on using these guidelines in the development process should be sustainable over time. One of the most famous definitions of sustainable development speaks of a model of development that meets the needs of the present generations, without questioning the potential of future generations to meet their own needs. Today, the perceptions of sustainable development are much wider. Sustainable development is seen as a possible scenario of development, with acceptable strategies facing new approaches in the future. In addition to environmental problems, the concept is extended to social and economic issues. In this way, the following issues are covered – overcoming the poverty of the population, improving human health, improving technologies that use resources more efficiently, looking at the problem of resource constraints, introducing new cost-effective criteria, improving the quality of the environment, etc. I would ask a question for a minister who did not answer me last time – whether a contract was signed with France or any other company that would carry out satellite recording of the territory of the Republic of Serbia without KIM, which is the price of this recording, since we have information that prices are five to six times more real and in what extent, which is very important, this recording will take place, whether this will be in proportion to 1:25,000, which is NATO standard, although our laws provide for the possibility of a ratio ranging from 15,000 to 110,000. I'd like the minister to give me an answer to this question after I've been exposed. I would like to point out, as far as legalization is concerned, the position of the SRS that all illegally built objects and objects that have over a million can and should be legalised from a social and narrow point of view, regardless of the date on which they are built. Legalisation, I repeat, must be comprehensive, fast, efficient and cheap to be implemented in practice. I would like to point out that at the Faculty of Geographical Sciences, a graduated spatial planner is being abolished, and a geographical map is being introduced. At a time when all European countries give importance to planning, it is happening to us quite the opposite. In the end, I'd just say that as far as land is concerned, we can't let it be sold out to tycoons and the state run out of it. As far as spatial plans are concerned, other than their production, we must take care of their realisation. The development of planning must also take into account sustainable development and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26358	Since we have completed the examination of the bill's proposal in particular, whether the proposal representative Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, wants a word, and on the basis of Article 144. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26359	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you all for the debate and thank you all for the amendments you've given. I think we have come to a quality law that will certainly contribute to much better development and the state of the environment and that represents the rounding of a reform process in the environment. The fund will be a powerful mechanism and I think that in the years to come we will establish a much better and better control and implementation of projects that are important for the preservation and improvement of the environment. To give a concrete answer. The Geodetic Institute signed a contract with the French Geodetic Institute. For now, only a technical contract has been signed, financial aspects have not yet been negotiated. What we have received as a gift from the Geodetic Institute of France is satellite footage of several zones in Serbia, which will include a basis for preventing legalisation of objects that are beginning to be built these days, because some citizens have heard that they will be allowed legalisation on the day of entry into force and want the existing state of illegal construction legalised after the entry into force of this law. We'll have footage of all the cities in Serbia. We'll be able to compare that to the orthophotos that were made this year and last year. What I have to say is that if the subject matter of the contract were agreed on by financial details of a contract that would certainly be favourable, because a loan was offered to the French state to Serbia, which would include a significant gift and a part that would be paid on favourable terms, would include recordings of Serbia's entire territory with the KIM area. It would mean 1:5,000 for the complete territory of Serbia, 1:2,500 for those territories of Serbia where the land-book system exists from the 19th century, 11,000 and a troupe of orthophoto images of Serbian cities that could later be used for various types of tourist offers. One to twenty-five thousand ratios are not agreed. She's in the exclusive jurisdiction of the military and we're not dealing with it as state institutions right now. We intend to address all aspects of this contract and how we inform the public, because we think it is a good thing for Serbia and that it will finally solve the problem of the lack of adequate basis for making all the plans that will be subject to the obligation of municipalities in the next two years, because we will not be able to perform an orthophoto shoot of Serbia as a whole so that we can meet what you have stressed is important, and that is to complete the planning process. That's right. When that's done, the public will be informed. There's nothing to hide.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-26-0.u26360	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you, thanks to the presidents and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups at the agreed agreement, that we are finishing our work for the day, and may be considered to be the application of Article 27 that we are finishing our work before 6 pm today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m., with a debate in particular on the draft public health law. Thank you all again.
