ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14212	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 138 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I understand we have a quorum to work with. 93 MPs were found to be present in the O.R. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Aleksandra Ilic, Riza Halimi and Mladen Grujic. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – I would like to remind the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (resumption in particular) that we have stopped at the moment when the word should be given to the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, and before the opening of the debate on a single search following the reports of the registered speakers. The Messenger Velimir Ilic, the messenger of the people, reported the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and the messenger of the people, Nenad Canak, followed him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14213	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the end of the session yesterday I asked for a replica after a very incorrect statement by the head of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, but the session was interrupted. I didn't get the word, and now I've got it right on the line. Thank you, Chairman, for that. I looked closely, I took the stenograms, which you can all take and look at, and what I'm accused of by Mrs. Hope Kolundgia doesn't say here. I didn't say anything, and the first sentence is – I apologize to Mr. Minister, Rasim Ljajic, my great friend, etc., with whom I have long-standing co-operation. That's what it says here. There's one thing I wanted to potentiate. Mr. Micunović, this isn't funny. I said Serbia is a serious state. I know what the state is and I know what the president of the state should do. The day of Serbian statehood at the Meeting, in Orasc, is a great Serbian day of the Serbian state. For that day, it is written in a stenogram, it must invite guests of the president of the state, for the day of the country of which he is president, or prime minister. In previous years, since the day was established, the prime minister has repeatedly called. The president of the state never showed up in the Nuts once, never had time, because of great busyness, to come on the day of his own state. That's what I've been up to. It can't be reduced to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. Well done to anyone. That's what it says here, gentlemen. You abused it to make on your special TV shows and different stories. A day of Serbian statehood may not answer to anyone. Start the initiative to change it, if it doesn't suit you, gentlemen. Say it publicly, but that day, the head of state doesn't have anything to do. That day, the head of state must be at the head of the parade, because he is the president of a state whose day is celebrated. I said it was an insult to Serbia, to its citizens, to all of us. It all says what I said here, gentlemen. Read, study, and you'll see. So, again, I'm warning you, don't make incidents. Mrs. Kolundjia, don't do what doesn't suit this House. Once again, I have more friends in Sandzak than all of you, perhaps, together. You can check and see, and you can study everything else. Please, don't, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, make incidents where there's no reason for them. You're known for your incidents. Your every power ends with sabre, assassination, fighting, etc. Don't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14214	Mr. Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam President, I have reported to you in accordance with Rules of Procedure from 104 to 113. It is a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, given that all these members have been violated so far. I would not even return to what we had the chance to see in this parliament yesterday, because I think it was the end of parliamentaryism in Serbia, unless something urgent was done. First and foremost, the current Rules of Procedure clearly speak about how the President of the National Assembly should be referred to maintaining order in the Assembly – these are warnings, taking away words, away from the session. Here, who knows what time they're trying to convince us that we haven't heard what we've heard, that we haven't seen what we've seen, that we haven't seen and heard that Master Ilic Velimir is spreading international hatred and that by language of hatred, from this same pay phone, he's provoking conflicts of broader proportions in this country. I will not and cannot remain silent before it can be said from this pay phone that it is a shame to be Muslim in Serbia. This means that as far as tomorrow we will be in a position for people to start dividing and killing on a national basis, and we have had the honor and pleasure of seeing it in these areas for the past decades, from those who, like Ilic Master Velimir, appeared as great protectors of Serbia. Wherever the Serbs were protecting, the Serbs are gone. Over whose house this and such flag turned, the house burned down, thanks to Ilic, the magistrate of Velimir and his like. How did you, Velimir Ilic, not mind Rasim Ljajic when we were together at DOS? How come you didn't mind Joseph Kass? How come I didn't bother you? How come all of us who disagree with what you're saying didn't bother us, but together we went to the greatest defender of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic, whom both Curtis and Baec worked for, and all the other great Serbs? What are we talking about here? We're talking about this assembly being destroyed, that Serbia, as a democratic state, has been pushed into mud and fungi, thanks to punks like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14216	Mr. Canak, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14217	I don't want to keep quiet about it. The People's Messenger Nenad Canak hits the pay phone with his hand. ) (He's got a microphone turned off. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14218	I'm interrupting the assembly session. We'll continue in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to inform you of the extension of the period under way and the continuation of the session at 12.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Because of the situation in the Assembly, which is well known to all of us, I would like to inform you that I have decided to give the MP, Srboljub Živanovic, on the basis of Article 108(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which took place yesterday in the building of the National Assembly, should give the MP Velimir Ilic, on the basis of Article 106, paragraph 1 of Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a warning about his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly on 12 February 2009, which caused great distress, and that, on the basis of Article 106(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Nenad Canka, on the basis of Article 106(6), paragraph 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the warning measure because of the offensive expression he sent to the People's Messenger Velimir Ilic. Mr. Todorovic answered the floor, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14221	Mrs. Slavice, expect me to report exclusively to the Rules of Procedure. I am reporting under Article 108(2), where it is said - the distance from the session can be expressed to the MP and without measures previously spoken, in the event of a physical attack, or another similar procedure that threatens the physical or moral integrity of the participants of the session, in the building of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if this transmission is going directly or if it will be delayed, I'm saying this for the citizens of Serbia, because of the double arches applied by the ruling majority, or the DS. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, ten days ago, all of Serbia could see in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that there was a physical attack, it can be said – or another similar procedure, and I can't describe the jump on the MP, the capture of hair and pulling. Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, then accepted that only Tomislav Nikolic would be warned, and now you are voicing a measure of distance from SRS MP Srboljub Zivanovic, due to an alleged physical attack in the Republika Srpska Assembly. To be clear, as far as the SRS is concerned, we have never justified, nor will we justify any physical contact between the MPs or the way to solve the problem by using any force; that is what a pay phone is for, arguments. Those who are unable to choose arguments and facts for their views have nothing to look for in the Serbian Parliament. It is obvious that you belong to this group, that you absolutely do not need facts and arguments, that you are guided by political interests. I don't know why, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, you're doing a dirty job for the DS before some official body makes a decision that will be based on all the facts. This is amazing. Are you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, aware of the incident, are you sure that all this is so, so you are sure to express this measure? I'd like to ask you to give us the written documents on the basis of which you gave this notice. I don't think you can do that based on...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14222	Time. I would ask MPs to work on the agenda. The word is Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS have survived everything and everything since 1992 in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I refer to Article 104 and Article 108(2), which you have read at the outset, and I would like to say that we will not tolerate you to treat yourself this way, and you and the ruling coalition, according to Serbian radicals, that you are bringing a court without evidence of someone's actions, especially because Dr Goran Cvetanovic, now mayor of Leskovec, and in two mandates of the SRS, tried to try for years before the competent authorities, more specifically, before the Fourth Municipal Court in Belgrade, with all the documentation he had and a recording of RTS, to prove that he suffered serious physical injuries in this assembly, when, by the will of DS and then the DOS authorities, he was contacted by the Assembly security. The man had extremely severe injuries, so he was eventually hospitalized. Stevan Kesejic, a member of the SRS, who is the president of our Western District Committee, was pulled out of the semi-aware assembly bench, so that in the end, in the assembly hall, he would faint and end up in the Emergency Centre, where Dr Bajec's position, in my presence and in the presence of Dr Cvetanovic, had a complete collapse; he had a pre-infarct condition and his life was gravely endangered. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, based on an alleged statement... I assume now that you are a court expert, Professor of the University, please, how do you conclude – on the basis of what RTS said last night that three RTS workers saw it in some hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia?- I'm sorry. There's Mr. Batic, an excellent lawyer, Mr. Jojic, also, the lawyers of the SRS, you, as a court expert, please, make such assessments, and again at some "politburo" meeting upstairs?- I'm sorry. I was in the lobby when Mr. Velimir Ilic was invited to come upstairs, I guess you could invite him and give him a childcare measure. Did you call Srboljub Zivanovic, too? Who is it now to say that Srboljub Zivanovic cannot enter this door, just because you came in and read Article 108(2) in 10 seconds because you decided somewhere up there? In whose presence and evidence? Don't play with the rights of the MPs. Don't take responsibility later... (President: Speak 15 seconds longer. )......................................................................................................... I'll be done. I'll get back to you later, and I'm warning you to take care of how you chair. This has gone beyond measure, so with Serbian radicals you won't be able to do it, be sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14224	Ms. Jovanovic, right now, taking care of the Parliament's dignity, I acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm ready to make my own decisions. Mr. Todorovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, since I failed to say everything I said about article 108, to repeat, you may have forgotten, and you did not answer me – on what basis, on what basis have you made this decision? I suppose you're a serious woman, to understand that stories have been told - she said I can't take for granted and that such a serious measure must be supported by some arguments and some facts. Do you have these arguments and facts, do you have them in writing, and can you put them in the light of the MPs of the Serbian Parliament? Mrs. Dejanovic, I am still trying to come up with an indictment brought against some SRS MPs in 1995. I don't know how many proceedings were initiated, three or four, I was one of those MPs against whom the procedure was initiated, because, apparently, I hit one MP with both my legs and my hands, and that MP that was used by the State Security Service, you had the opportunity last year, on the B92 show, to see a member of the State Security Service who admitted to recruiting SRS MPs, to that end, to use 100,000 marks, and we were called to court. In court, I called, at that moment, on Radmil Bogdanovic, the former police minister, who told me what would happen to me before I even got the indictment before the trial was initiated. It speaks of a scenario that is exactly the same in 1995 and now, in 2009, absolutely the same. Please, Mrs. Dejanovic, at least change some methods, invent something smarter, more convincing. What does this look like? You will now, whoever comes to you and says – and that is what happened, come to the session of the Serbian Parliament and say – I say it here and there. Gentlemen, just take today's paper, look at Igor Bečić's picture and remember yesterday's look, remember the story of the glasses, and everything will be clear to you. I'm sorry for this overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14226	Mr Todorovic, I have acted under Article 108(2), which says - the measure of distance from the session can be given to the MP and without measures previously spoken, in the event of a physical attack, or another similar procedure that endangers the physical and moral integrity of the participants of the session in the building of the National Assembly. I did it based on evidence that was enough for me to express this measure. Please, in case you deny me of my conviction on the basis of which I have brought this measure, do what the Rules of Procedure and allow you to do. Mr. Vladan Batic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported in accordance with Article 27. From you, Madam President, I'm asking for an explanation for a statement from the RTS college. Now we've gone to another extreme, that the RTS college is ordering the Assembly, there are two calls, or Velimir Ilic is publicly sorry for what he said here, or to be punished, to continue the transmissions. It's nowhere in the world. I personally asked Velimir Ilic to apologize to Rasim Ljajic and all the citizens of the Muslim religion, sorry, Islamic creeds, if his exposure is interpreted as a hate speech, but that RTS dictates the work of the National Assembly, it is unacceptable. Suddenly, the man who led the RTS, who fought in court and the first-degree verdict of the judge for crimes, was sentenced to 15 days in prison, so he slapped a member of the LDP at the Court of Justice, so he slapped another LDP member somewhere on the street, now he loathed violence. The man who insulted and slandered hundreds of people. You've got the book of Jucom's "The Officer's Case of Alexander Tianic". He detests insult, defamation, and hate speech, and commands many things to the congregation. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, that's what you're responsible for. The same man, who was a pet and Slobodan Milosevic, and Mira Markovic, and Vojislav Kostunica, said that ominous sentence – if Djindjic survives, Serbia will not. He's still the director of the Public Service. I'm saying this well-intentioned. You, not as individuals, but as one who decides, allow such a man to remain at the head of RTS. Madam President, I'm asking for an explanation from you. Is this whole story about the TV broadcast, we heard information from the task force, which I first attended, when I saw that there were no representatives of the opposition, I left that working group meeting... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I am finishing, but I have heard the argument – that the sessions will be transferred until the autumn session. (President: Yes, that's how it's gonna be. () Yes, but it is not an argument – that it will be transmitted if this is said or not said about the congregation. That and no one has a right to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14228	Mr Batić, you are likely to know, like all MPs, that we have a working group, whose coordinator is Mr Veljko Odalovic, for co-operation with RTS and for ensuring the public about the work of this Parliament. In that sense, I would like to inform you that this is working and that this session is now included in the direct transmission. I'd just like to tell you that the task force is at the very same level of decision-making, that it's thinking about other ways of reporting to the public about what's going on here, but we have an agreement that until the autumn session we have a session and it's happening so far. Mr. Ilichu, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14229	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I am surprised by this reaction of the Public Service and one man who was a servant in all the regimes that existed and who asked me to act as he wills. He's sending us an ultimatum on what we need to do in order to transmit. This morning, there was a meeting of the heads of parliament with the president. I made my point, the heads of the parliamentary groups took theirs out, and it was said that, based on the stenogram, at least I was told, there was nothing special and that they would give me a word, to go out and say, and I explained here in Parliament, but without television transmission. I said I was disappointed, which was followed by my statement and my stenogram, which you can see. My first sentence was – I apologize to Mr. Rasim Ljajic, who is my great friends, which I must say. I insisted – why does Serbia's president never show up on Statehood Day? Is this the other day important to Serbia or not? Does he accept that day or not, which I later explained, or at least the Prime Minister? Mr. Micunovic explained to me here, when we discussed it, that it was not an important day, that it was a Turkish constitution and that it was not particularly important for Serbia, and where you chose that day. That's what he told me here, I think you've all heard, gentlemen of the Parliament, when he was arguing with me here, in the benches. Did he, as political adviser to the President of the Republic, advise him that this day is not important? Why do you invite us to such a day? You might have a better day, I don't mind. Maybe Oplenac means nothing to you, Orasac – nothing to you, it may not mean anything to you either, nor Tanasko Rajić; I do not know what it means to you, you say, it is correct. Therefore, I thank Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, who was very correct yesterday, did not even warn me after my presentation, because she followed what I was saying, but, under pressure, she later gave me a note; she had to, because there was so much pressure, so I guess she had to, I don't know. I'm sorry. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, the president of Parliament was very correct. I didn't want to offend anyone, but what Chanak did to me here this morning, when he turned off the transmission, when he came out for this pay phone and said I was just a jerk, that I needed this, that I needed that, Malten, to hang me in front of the Assembly... He said it all. He was brought in from Novi Sad to do it, to make an incident, and then he was carried out and sent away. Is it correct according to one political option, which I am headed on, whether it is correct for one MP to say in Parliament, whether what he said last time about the Constitution, about everything that is going on in Vojvodina, whether it is correct for the people to judge. So, I don't mind Chanka and I won't comment on him ever again, but I resent Boris, he's his boss, he brought him here and installed him, so let the gentlemen of the ruling coalition think about it. Thank you, and I'm sorry I'm over my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14230	Gentlemen, by expressing your suspicion that I have made decisions under any influence, you are degraded by Parliament, the President of Parliament and myself personally. I would like to tell you that even in extremely difficult times, I have been guided by my own attitude and by acts that bind me to certain behavior. I have done so today and the sanctions imposed are an expression of my belief that they are appropriate. Mrs. Pop-Lazic picked up the word first, then Mrs. Radeta. I hope we can finally, after that, move on to the agenda and ask you to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14231	Since I'm running out of time, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to explain that you have misapplyed article 108, and I think you'll allow me to do so, because I'm going to make a small introduction to make you understand me better. In light of all these events in Parliament lately, especially from ten days ago, we can conclude that Tijanic is the one who edits the Assembly's agenda, to whom the measure will be given...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14232	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, will you explain what the violation of article 108 is?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14233	I will. Don't interrupt me, I'll get to it. You need to consult, I suppose, and with him in order to make a decision. That's my opinion, I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but you won't take it for granted. I ask, why was there no TV transmission this morning, when Mr. Canak, apparently, was brought here, because it was staged, to do what he did, shaking this pay phone, banging his hand very hard on her, almost collapsed, and the Serbian public couldn't see it? You knew what was going to happen, but you didn't react to it. You've been waiting for things to get tough around here. So, Madam Chairman, nothing happens in this country by chance, so this doesn't happen by any chance. Since yesterday, since, I don't know in what form, Satan, apparently, entered this House, evaluate who it is, these things have been happening. Commissioner Olli Rehn, I underline this word "commissary", has come to the National Assembly in order to clearly stage everything that is necessary, in order to lead to parliamentary life going on outside the public, i.e. that television transmission is completely shut down. If the Tianic is God, then it will be so, but I hope it is not in this country. However, I appeal to you, Madam Chairman, if you find it appropriate to punish one of the MPs so drastically as you have, in your own confidence, done, even though I do not think you are right, why do you not have the same archaic against all the other MPs? Here, let's say, I've heard many female MPs complain and say -- how long will Mr. Nikolic here, say, share us with those who are married, who are single, who were fortunate to have children and those who don't have children, those who are in the climate, those who are younger, those who are already old and shouldn't appear here? Is this the way, perhaps, the moral integrity of our female MPs is threatened? Do you as a woman think you should take us for protection? This Article 108(2) allows you to do so, and you could say the same, to ensure that we women are equal in the Serbian Parliament. Also, I demand that you answer me, please, to what I've had objections to, and I'll tell you if I'm satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14234	I remind you that you have spoken 30 seconds longer and I ask you to stick to the time in the future. Of course, I did not have consultations with Mr Tijanic about my conduct in the Assembly, but with the Rules of Procedure. As far as your remarks on hand-wrestling are concerned, you're absolutely right. I'm not going to tolerate any slapping with my hands or my legs, and as far as the same arches are concerned, you're absolutely right. I've been more intolerant to everyone so far. I'll try to be less tolerated, because apparently, my tolerance has contributed to the escalating of the problems we're witnessing. Ms. Verica Radeta has a word for the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14235	I am reporting, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 27. Rules of Procedure: ''The President of the National Assembly shall carry out the tasks provided for in the Constitution, chair the meetings of the National Assembly, shall take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, shall take care of the timely and harmonised work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, and shall carry out other tasks provided for in the law and this Rules of Procedure. ''Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, there is no record here that the president of the National Assembly is involved in the affairs of the investigating judge, the affairs of the investigating authorities, the law enforcement, the prosecution, etc. Today, by giving a measure to the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, you acted exactly that way. You, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, were personally a witness before we, because we reacted, only when you drew attention to what was going on, as did the other MPs, the violent behaviour of Tomislav Nikolic compared to Srboljub Zivanovic, when he pulled his hair when he grabbed him by the neck. You didn't react. You made a warning only after our intervention. You witnessed multiple times when Tomislav Nikolic, again showing his violent nature, threatened the MPs from the place where you allowed him to sit, although he did not, threatened him with his finger, and Tijanic's RTS also recorded it. Look at that and look at you tubes, there's this video, it's threatening the finger, it's cursing the mother to the MPs. You didn't react again. Yesterday I said that you should write – p.s. at the beginning or at the end of this Rules of Procedure. to apply only to the MPs of the SRS. Obviously, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you have entered a machine, you have accepted to be the political executioner of Boris Tadic compared to the MPs of the SRS. We, as always, will fight civilised and democratically for the rights of every SRS MP, but, as always, for the democratic democratic rights of the Serbian state, the Serbian citizens, which the SRS has been pushing for since its founding. You can't, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... You forgot, I've been quoting the Rules of Procedure for 17 seconds, I'm making very much of an account, now you've taken three seconds from me, but I'll end up exactly at 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14236	I've already explained there's no injury to Article 27, in my opinion. If you're unhappy, you know what your parliamentary options are. Mr. Krasic has a word. Please do not advertise this same article to the public in the future. It's just, I suggest that, for efficiency, you don't speak the same contents. Mrs Radeta and Mr Todorovic were very clear. I invite you, in fact, to move on to the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14237	If it's all so clear, then there's something wrong with locking up the audience. I'm calling on Article 27 again. Of course, I don't want to use this argument that my predecessors used, because that argument is not worth talking about, because it's become a well-known thing. But it is really difficult when you all look after the application of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia. I have to draw attention to you, I wouldn't be going into these tiny details right now, you know that there are these provocations, there are threatening letters, that they're focusing on Srboljub Zivanovic, all of them are generally known, that you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, are part of that elaborate system. The system is about: Vojislav Seselj does great wonders and spectacular things in the tribunal of The Hague tribunal, the SRS is quite strong, the EU, the European dream and Eurofanatics fall into defension, because that bubble is cracked, and then something needs to be done. What? Reduce the impact of the SRS in Serbia to end the effective murder of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal. You're on that trail, and yesterday you went only to receive your homework from Ollie Reno, Ollie "Ketchup" or anyone else. That's the story. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that. Here is not a problem with the law, here is the problem that Boris Tadic cannot apply the law. Let him resign, save his life from those foreigners whom someone has promised, and we should return to normal work, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I suppose you have the opportunity to appeal to some experience. You haven't been in politics since yesterday. What do I care which one of you is doing at the Institute of Security and what he had to get out of there? You have no right to destroy the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What's your message? Independent Kosovo must not demonstrate, the arrest of Radovan Karadzic must not be demonstrated. You're criticizing -- we're shutting down the transmissions, you want to talk -- we're denying you the Rules of Procedure, you raise your head -- here's some bully to provoke you. Respect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have Gonzales, we don't have NATO, we don't have an alliance that needs to seduce order, we don't want to burn Parliament, we don't want democracy to develop on the flame of the Assembly. What is your democracy, Bodrum, Thessaloniki? Whatever you got yourself into, you ruined everything. If you need to take us out, take us out, but we insist. Respect the law, the Constitution and the law, the constitution that you have brought. You step on everything and someone else comes out here, and he talks to us about hate speech. You have no idea what hate speech is. You gonna tell me what hate speech is? You? To me who wrote books about hate speech? (President: Time. You're gonna tell me what hate speech is?- I'm sorry. Shame on you! You're destroying the Republic of Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14238	Please don't speak to a messenger like that. I pray you, I warn you, because you cry out to the Messengers, and do not mind when I warn you that you have finished speaking. I said you'd overstepped time, I warned you, I'm giving you a warning. Mr. Petar Jojic first. Excuse me, Mrs. Pop-Lazic is replacing Mr. Todorovic, so she has the advantage. What did Mrs. Kolundjia say?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14239	Dear Chairman, you may not be able to see everything at all times, as you haven't seen what's going on in the hall, or in the Parliament building, but you've received some information, so based on that information you've come to some conclusion and delivered here this morning a measure of distance from one of the MPs. Now you have said, you see, an unjust reminder to a people's messenger, and you have not uttered a warning, although the Rules of Procedure binds you, to him who provoked and hindered the Messenger of the people as he spoke. Ask Mrs. Kolundji what she said to Mr. Krasic and challenged him to speak directly to her. Just in that case, you know, you have the same arches. Only then can you show that you have integrity as president of the National Assembly, if you feel it is necessary to give Mr Krasic the same measure of caution. When you prove it, then, Madam President, you will have the trust of all the MPs, then you will show that you are the president of all the MPs, that you are the first among the equals, but that you are trying to be righteous. Like this, you're just a tool in the hands of the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14240	Mrs. Kolundjia has a word. I really didn't hear what you said. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14241	The Honorable Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the bitter accusations addressed to me by Mr Krasic and the lessons about who is the authority to interpret hate speech, and who is not, I am to myself, without giving it to him, and no one has heard it, because he looked at me because in his accusations he addressed me, said, "No, you will teach me that." That's all I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14242	Mrs. Kolundzija, please make your comments in the future that they do not give cause for any new comments from Mr. Krasic. Please, if you made such a loud comment that he could hear it and misread it, you gave another reason. Please don't do this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14243	Please, Madam President, he has accused me in a very direct manner of something, you have not responded to it. No problem, you didn't think it was necessary to react. Not even a colleague sitting next to me, nor Mr Batic, sitting in front of me, heard that I had commented on what hate speech was going to teach me, Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14244	Mrs. Pop-Lazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14245	Please, let's get this Parliament as serious as possible. Maybe it's funny to you. I don't think it's funny. Mrs. Kolundjia, we've all heard that you're provocative... I'll tell you what member of the Rules of Procedure he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14246	Don't speak to the MP. Speak to the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14247	No, I challenge Mrs. Kolundji to a replica, it's my right. So, you're, while Mr. Krasic spoke of hate speech as very competent, because he wrote several books on the subject, unfortunately, you didn't get to know him enough, apparently you didn't read enough, angryly, saying to him, "You're going to tell me what hate speech is." Well, you have some autonomous right to judge what hate speech is, only you know what hate speech is, we others are uneducated. We don't know what hate speech is, we can't define it. We can, and how, in a different way, probably from you. So you challenged the Messenger to speak directly to you, because you interrupted him to tell you – which is why you tell me that I cannot talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14248	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, what you're saying can't be related to the explanation of the Rules of Procedure's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14249	Please, Madam Chairman, Article 106 obliges you to give a warning to the MP if he interrupts the speaker in the presentation and throws, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. You could have noticed that Mr Krasic was challenged, so that you could look for the culprit who caused him to this little harsher tone and punish him, not the one who is the victim of such behaviour, of one MP, and the head of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14250	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, Mrs. Kolundzija's comment was such that I didn't hear him, and here's how far away I am. If I didn't hear him, I'm not saying you guys didn't hear him. I made a point about it, there were no elements to express any other measure, except to ask that, if what you claim is true, it does not happen in the future. That, by the way, I do. No one has heard from here, including Miss Jovanovic, otherwise she would have reacted. Mr. Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14251	Ladies and gentlemen, since I've been mentioned several times, the fact is that Mrs. Kolundzija, without any revolt, anger and anger, said to Mr. Krasic, "You're not going to teach me what hate speech is." Mr. Krasic, quite frankly, you've gone too far. Why? You hurt me too, insulting all those who took part in the true democratic revolution on October 5th. What does it mean, "in the flame of the Assembly of Nickle is democracy"? The greatest democracies in the world were brought to flames far greater than the flame of the congregation. [[Zagor in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14252	Gentlemen, please allow Mr Batić to complete his presentation. Don't interrupt him. I'll be forced to make demands.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14253	Make a name for a couple of hooligans burning some curtains in the congregation! The regime that you then supported deserves a much stronger response than the burning of several flags in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14254	Mr. Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14255	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 104. At the same time, I thank Mr Batic for giving us clear guidelines on how democracy is coming. Apparently, that flame on October 5th wasn't that big in any case. That's why we're not in democracy today. According to Mr Batic's recommendations, it should be done, and as time goes by, Mr Batic will likely experience these words and confirm them. As for that previous regime that we were in, it's true, we were, and there's no dispute, honorably and responsibly doing our functions. Mr Batic is fully understood, he is a free MP, expressing his position, his party's position, and, as it would say, does not change his position, stick to one line. I appreciate that, regardless of what I absolutely disagree with Mr. Batic. We come up with another question, which logically imposes: what about the "yellow company"? He's not in bankruptcy? It will be, slowly. You're headed that way and there's no theoretical way to get off that road in any way. The logical question is being asked, Mr. Batic, and I think you can give the answer, as you gave the answer to Mrs. Hope Kolundji and tossing it. Ask a question – how is it possible that many who set fire to that "little flame" and set a few curtains on fire, by the way, as the English would say... It wouldn't be bad to say Mr. Micunovic, who was the president of the Council of Citizens and who, even of some later accused of spending a lot of money to replace those curtains, garrisons, etc., because in a dilemma, Mr. Batic, did Mr. Micunovic embezzle money, did he really spend so much on the reconstruction of the SRJ Assembly, or are you telling the truth? So there's no two truths. These are very serious things. What especially needs to be underlined is the moral question: how can these "yellows" and these "reds" be with each other? If you're hearing accusations today about those 1990s, etc., by the "yellows," and these are being defended, I really don't understand. (President: Time. I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14256	Mr Petronijevic, as the mandated representative of the SPS-JS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14257	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 103 and Article 104. Without the intention of sharing some lessons, as they tend to say, I urge all of us to return to work on the agenda, inviting all of us to the same obligation we have – restoring dignity to this congregation. For the fourth day, SPS-JS lawmakers have not participated in this and do not want to participate in sending an ugly picture to the public of Serbia. They call us citizens, and they respond, and say, "Why are you making the congregation a market? "I apologize to the markets. Please, let's get back to the agenda. Through the advertising of the Rules of Procedure in the last three days, much has been said about the very changes and additions of the Rules of Procedure and I call for us to return to the agenda, and this is an opportunity to face the views and positions and opposition on it, which is, in fact, the right place and the right role of the Serbian Parliament. Of course, in doing so, I don't want to make it impossible for anyone, to insult anyone for exercising his rights. I'm just calling for, as our people say, "to be hit by a belt." Let's get back to work on the agenda. The SPS-JS MPs will not continue to participate in this way. In the end, I have the right, as an MP who feels uncomfortable and apologizes to the public of Serbia for sending such a picture to Serbia, to invite all of us, no one individually, to really apply Article 104. Rules of Procedure, let's speak here, surely, harshly, but dignifiedly. Please, every word here spoken echoes like an echo in Serbia, each division here divides Serbia, opposes the citizens of Serbia. Please, everyone, pay attention. So, I haven't addressed anyone individually, but to all of us, to pay attention to these two things and get back to work on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14258	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. You rightly point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and that is. 103 and 104. I pray that according to the comments you made we rule, I stand absolutely behind them. Mr. Petar Jojic. There's been a change in order, Mr. Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14259	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 104. Cruelly violated is the dignity of the National Assembly and the "budden Democracy" is still continued, not only here, in the Assembly Hall, but on committees as well. A session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs without a quorum is held, with agenda – a conversation with the newly appointed ambassador of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Poland, Radojko Bogovic, before going on diplomatic duty. The president was obliged to provide quorum and allow us to talk to the future ambassador to see how he would represent the state of Serbia. The second point - the parliamentary groups of friendships. (a) determining the president of parliamentary groups and under (b) an initiative to establish a parliamentary group of friendships with the sovereign Maltese order. We SRS MPs had a lot to say about this second point, under b), but the quorum is gone, the session is being held. I wonder what the conclusions will be on all these points on the agenda. I am informing the public of Serbia and you, gentlemen of the MPs, that any decision to make is illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14260	I will request a notice from the president of the Committee, and I ask you to make a quorum and join your fellow Members. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14261	I'm reporting under Article 27. I'm really asking you, Mrs. Slavic, not to do what you're doing. Why didn't you invite, among other things, the representatives of your party on the Administrative Committee when it was due to continue the 34th session? Why didn't you do it then, so that you had every moral right to invite members of the SRS to any committee? Why, Mrs. Dejanovic, did you not do what you were obliged to do under Article 27 to call the chairman of the Administrative Board and ask him why he did not continue the session? The explanation that there is no quorum is completely pointless. So the 34th session began and did not need to determine the quorum. It's those double arches you're applying. When it suits you, it's democracy for you, because it's good. When it doesn't suit you, it can be according to the Constitution, by law, whatever you want, but then you make a decision whether it's politically useful for you or not. This really crosses every possible limit. You find it appropriate to warn the representatives of the SRS. We're an opposition party and we're assessing whether we're going to give a quorum or not. You can't, absolutely, invite us to that, or call us. It's your responsibility. Just remember how many times the Serbian Parliament couldn't start working on time because you didn't have a quorum. Just remember how many times you couldn't start the vote, to pass the laws you proposed, your government, because you didn't have a quorum. You don't have the moral right to call anyone a quorum, and especially when you were in opposition, you used the same methods, which is completely legitimate. No one has the right to call you. Here's the problem that you're only doing all the evaluations one way, whether it's useful or not. If it's useful, what do you care if it's by the Constitution, if it's by the law, you don't care. When it suits you like this, you'll accept it. If it suits you differently, the next day, you will accept it differently immediately. What you think is useful to you, in the first place, but such a way of working usually comes at a moment's notice to the public, and these are elections... (President: Time. I've already told you this, very soon you from these front lines will move up to the end, if you come into the O.R. at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14262	Mr Todorovic, I am obliged, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to enable all working bodies to work. In that sense, my invitation to the MPs to participate in the working bodies was addressed to everyone, regardless of the political option. Of course it is your right to assess where, when and if you will give, as an opposition parliamentary group, quorum. No one can get into that. That's all I did this time. The word is Mr. Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14263	I'm referring to Article 100 and Article 101. Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't understand what Mr. Todorovic was going to say when he thought that Parliament's president, as the first among the equal, should call on his party members to attend some committee sessions. So, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic's obligation is to ensure the work of all working bodies, work in the tide, and that is what she does as Parliament's president, not as a member of the SPS. Since I was the member of the Administrative Committee in front of the SPS-JS Group, that day I already had an agreed trip and was objectively absent, so I was in Jagodina. As far as the Management Board's session is concerned, it was completed 15 minutes ago. The epilogue is who he is. As far as the SPS-JS is concerned, we voted in principle the way we announced it, and we always followed that principle. Mr Todorovic, you really do not have the moral right to mention this, and I ask you and everyone else to, when that famous session of the Administrative Committee is over, allow all of us to move on to the agenda and to discuss the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that we do not further block Parliament's work, spend the money of the taxpayers, or the citizens of Serbia, and slow down all our further integrations, were those European, or others, and allow the citizens of Serbia to get those legal solutions that will contribute to their lives, and the lives of those citizens who voted for the SRS and opposition parties, and those who voted for the ruling parties. So, please, once again, let us move on to the debate on what is the agenda, so that those unloved scenes that happened yesterday in this house, simply forget, that those who deserve sanctions, that sanctions and get, and that is a lesson in the future, that we do not devise Parliament's work. Because this is still the highest representative home of our country and it will make citizens appreciate in some of the next elections, but until then, let's try to face each other in a civilized way and talk about all those topics that are of life's interest, above all, to the citizens of Serbia, because they bear the sovereignty of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14264	Thank you, Mr. Rose. The word is Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 101(1). Obviously, Mr. Ruzic, you did not understand what I said to Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. What should be important to you, that is what I really said, and these are the double arches that are applied in the Republika Srpska Assembly and, unfortunately, which is why Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic applies them. When it comes to the MPs of the SRS, some of the arches are applied, when it comes to other MPs, some other arches are applied. Whether you've been involved or not, it's your right, you have no obligation at all to come, it's a matter of policy being conducted by your party and we're not going to get into it, but I'm talking about the chairman, as the first among the equal, having the same relationship with all MPs. If the chairman makes one decision based on some stories, and she didn't even see it, except she heard an incident happened, something happened, and for a similar event, which she witnessed, interrupted the session of the Serbian Parliament, then some things don't add up. Maybe you think we can take it and get over it. To avoid confusion, Mr. Ruzic, yes, a session of the Administrative Committee was held. It was very important to us, that things were definitely driven out into the open, to see the essence. The essence is very simple -- political games, political trade continues in the Serbian Parliament. What some used to say - cattle market. There are no dilemmas. That's where things are pretty clear right now. What we argued about DS, it is now absolutely clear to all of us, and Serbia's citizens should be clear that they are no longer hiding behind it. And they are subject to one principle, and when it comes to the SRS, other principles apply. In order not to speak in my mind, they will explain to DS MPs representatives, or members of the Administrative Committee, what was happening on the Administrative Board, so you will have the opportunity to see what I am telling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14266	Mr. Petar Jojic has a word for the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14267	Madam President, gentlemen of the Presidency, I am reporting under Rule 27, because the chairman, under Rule 3, is the old one on the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Since this is in the jurisdiction of the chairman of the Republic of Serbia, and since he is still in the legal power of the existing, valid Rules of Procedure, and since 2005, I think that, who has chaired the last three days, you have significantly injured not only the Rules of Procedure, it is right to call it'substantial violation of the rules and laws'; it is a big difference – whether 'infraction', or 'infringement'. That's what the second-degree authorities are looking after, which abolishes such decisions. Madam Chairman, I appreciate you as an extraordinary professor, an excellent expert, but I must give you some helpful advice, don't fall into a trap and don't forget those who cut your children's hair at your ministers' school. Don't forget that, it can hurt. Madam President, in this House, a suspect with a convicted suspect is equal. Please, who has established the important facts when it comes to certain matters, today when you gave notice and a departure from the session of SRS MP Srboljub Zivanovic? I suppose the competent authority should establish that he is guilty, and the blame is determined by a decision of law. That's what the Constitution says to us. I think the decisions, Madam President, which were made to the MPs of the SRS, are because they were not given the right to use the provisions of the article. 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, absolutely zero and you must put them outside the legal force. On the other hand, I ask that written decisions be made by the competent authority of this Parliament and that in written decisions to give the right to legal instruction and thus, within the meaning of the provisions of Article 36(2) of the Constitution, be made possible to the MPs, because they are citizens and representatives of the people, to declare the appeal of such a decision and to reach the court, so that we can finally understand whether the chairman of the National Assembly has misused the law. In criminal law, there is a crime of self-authority. (President: Time, Mr. Jojic. One more, Madam Chairman, I apologize, I will finish, just to say that things are happening in Serbia and in this House... (President: Finish. )......................................................................................................... My message to you is that Serbian radicals are irreplaceable... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14268	You have no more words. You were talking about a serious injury to the Rules of Procedure on my part, no arguments. So there's no violation of Article 27, according to my assessment. You have other business opportunities in the voting day, you know that. Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14269	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, instead of strengthening Parliament's integrity, Mrs Dejanovic, you, along with the DS, are destroying it. It is truly amazing that as a culprit in this situation, for the chaos that is in the country, for the pucks you get from Olli Rehn, who now, in the image of Tomislav Nikolic, has a new favorite quasipolitan, for all this is happening, which is a people hungry, which is people without a job, which the government is not doing its job, which Boris Tadic is conducting the dictatorship, which you are making parastrates in Parliament, accuse the SRS. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you've been post-festum, 20 hours, perhaps less, after some alleged event you've said a step away from Srboljub Zivanovic's session without any evidence of it. I will remind you now, because on Sunday, on 28 December, you chaired the session of the Assembly, when the most significant person in the Serbian Parliament, Tomislav Nikolic, pulled Srboljub Zivanovic's hair. I wasn't in the Assembly that day, because I organized in Kragujevac...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14270	Please, just tell me which member did I hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14271	That's when you hurt your ankle. 106, 108, 27, because there is irrefutable evidence and there is a recording of this Tianic TV that the incident gentleman did it. The incidents happen to him, they started for a month, because 28, when Mrs Gordana Komic chaired, so, a month later, he was so timed and winded, it again for your profession, made another incident against the same Serboljub Zivanovic. When the RTS cameras...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14272	Please take care of the way you address and comment on the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14273	What a comment, please, do I have to speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14274	Please, the fact that someone's been tempered so that for 28 days, you can be offended and I'm asking you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14275	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, maybe it's a coincidence. Well, you see, December 28th, then January 28th, yesterday, but that's not a coincidence; February 12th, for the glory of the SRS, it's no longer a coincidence. If I was wrong and I thought it was a coincidence, 28, but this isn't an accident yesterday. I see this one, who is reportedly injured, lively, running, enters the hour at one, the hour at the other door, running down the hall. Wait, a fracture of the nose, then the Emergency Center, then the VMA!? If it wasn't for a little gentleman at BIA's briefing, since he's a well-known BIA associate? What are we talking about here, staged events like 1995? Dragan Tomic, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, took the same responsibility on himself that year when Milorad Mircic, Dragan Todorovic, Branislav Vakic, Miroslav Dramovic, were allegedly beaten by a certain Ac Đuric, and now a late gentleman, whom I will not mention, and that some others held his hands and feet. You were an MP back then. At night, the Administrative Board met, organised by your party colleague Dugalić, transported by helicopters, to remove immunity to Todorovic and Mircic. (President: Ms. Jovanovic, you must bring the end. I'll finish, but I'll get back to you, because these are irrefutable facts and incidents... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14276	The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14277	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, there has indeed been a grave violation of the Rules of Procedure by...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14278	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, from your parliamentary group, and you're replacing Mr. Todorovic, the sounds I've tolerated to this session of the Administrative Committee are coming. Your reasons were to express certain forms of dissatisfaction because you await the outcome of that session. Today we have the result of this session and I ask you to influence your colleagues, or I will give the measures to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14279	So here, first of all, the previous MP voiced doubts about your decision that you sanctioned something that happened, and I'm not going to get into it, but I really don't care that no one reacts to the misrepresentation of what happened yesterday and, no matter what, to encourage it to happen again, because nothing happened. Yesterday, MP Srboljub Zivanovic attacked MP Igor Becic. There is evidence of this, there are neutral witnesses for it, there are statements by Mrs. Pop-Lazic, who plays a scarecrow, legs and hands here... Don't yell, I just see when...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14280	Mr. Nikolic, take care of how you address your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14281	I said the easiest response to what this lady does, raising her hands and legs in front of me. Mrs. Pop-Lazic said yesterday – if she is a Christian, what touches on the day of the Serbian glory of a man who did not leave the hall? You lied, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Srboljub Zivanovic came out of the O.R. and attacked Igor Becic. Instead of being ashamed of you, to be silent about what happened, even if you didn't, you were defending one hooligan, defending the man who attacked in the building of the National Assembly of the Other Messengers. Do you want that to happen again? Would you like to go out again and say, "And what happened, here he runs, his nose is broken, and he's running?" Guys, do you have a measure? There's been a serious incident. Your MP attacked another MP. Don't defend it, it's no good. Not all of you are physically strong. There'll be someone physically stronger than you, and they'll beat you up. They found the gentlest one. (President: Mr. Nikolic, finish up. I'm sorry, but really, if you don't think you should act like this... (President: I will react, but finish you, and I will react. Thank you. (At the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14282	Mrs Pop-Lazic, I would like to remind you that the MPs of the SRS have been obstructing the speaker in his address to Parliament. Mrs. Pop-Lazic has a word. I must tell you that I wasn't able to listen at the same time and follow your behavior, because you made it impossible for me to hear what he was saying normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14283	Madam Chairman, I accept your warning, although our Rules of Procedure do not know the Institute of collective responsibility. So, I can't answer for you or Mr Nikolic or Mrs Kolundji or Mrs Elena Christmas-Talian or Philip Stojanovic or any of the SRS MPs. I can answer for my actions. You warned me that you would give me a warning measure and I showed you my hands above the table, I also crossed my legs on the side, I often do that, because it's very uncomfortable and I can't keep my feet under the table and I'm tearing my socks, and that Mrs. Comic would see that I'm not pounding my legs. Now you've given me a warning measure, and I really don't know why. You want to kick me out of the assembly? Does it bother you that I often go out for this pay phone, that I express what I think I should say, that I criticize you how you do? If that bothers you, say so and tell me immediately that warning for 20 days, for six months. We had a case of someone being expelled from Parliament for six months, I doubted now that it wasn't an agreement with the parliamentary majority, that was when Nikolic was expelled for six months, so I stayed here alone to tear down the government, if you remember, in 2003, but I did it. Keep in mind, in such situations there are some unpredictable circumstances. The odium you send to Serbian citizens will be very difficult. You're gonna hurt a lot of things you're doing, so be a little bit of a politician, don't be a judge. You question yourself, and you will come to the Administrative Board and this punishment of mine, what you have told me, were you right, by which member. Please find me a member, an aline, of the Rules of Procedure by which you gave me a measure of what someone else did. And in front of Mr. Nikolic, who insulted me here, and I have already warned you that he hates women and that he treats women with discrimination and indignity, you did not, as a woman, take me for protection. I may not be pretty, but I'm not a scarecrow. If I were a cripple, you'd have to take me for protection here. I have three children, imagine when they hear these words coming to me – I raised my legs? Please, did I lift my legs? What does that mean? You know when a woman is said to have raised her legs, what that means. Is that a moral discredition? Is that how you feel? If you feel, please, say one measure to this new star of yours that you have launched, and you will prove that all MPs standing in front of your eyes and that you treat everyone the same way. Otherwise, believe me, you fell in my eyes for good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14284	I gave you a warning in accordance with Article 106 of Section 5, which says, "The warning is given to the MP if he interrupts the speaker in the presentation or throws away, or interferes with the speaker." You've obviously disturbed the speaker. Please, the MP group can't use sound signals to interfere with the speaker, and we certainly won't tolerate it. It's obvious that banging comes from a bench of MPs of the SRS. Here is the responsibility of one who is the first among the equal in that parliamentary group. The Management Board can decide differently from the way I did it. Really, honestly, I didn't hear, because I simply couldn't hear, because of the banging, the comments Mr. Nikolic made. I ask the MPs to take care of the dignity of the congregation and the way they treat each other. I'll take a look at the stenogram and I'll do the same thing. The word has Mrs. Elena Christmas - Italian.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14285	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104 and Article 108. Mrs. Dejanovic, it's amazing how scandalous those who are on your side, from your pro-Western front, don't notice and tolerate. He just made a scandalous statement by Mr Tomislav Nikolic. As you rely on witness statements, Mrs Pop-Lazic said earlier, I will be the second witness to what Mr Nikolic said, he called Mrs Pop-Lazic a scarecrow, and the MP of SRS/Srboljub Zivanovic – a hooligan. It is quite clear that your decision today to exclude from the session of MP Srboljub Zivanovic is part of a campaign that has been under way for months, part of the same SRS has been the target of declaring the SRS the main culprit for everything that has been going on in this Parliament and in this country. You have not even noticed a scandalous attack on Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, nor has a letter of threat addressed to him, and whose parts were read, that I am not reading now, have not advocated establishing who sent this letter to Srboljub Zivanovic, who is threatened to cut off a portion of his body if they mention Tomislav Nikolic again. So you didn't even care what you saw...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14286	Mrs. Italian, you don't explain a member you advertised was injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14287	I also said Article 108 and Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14288	What do you explain, where's the injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14289	I present Article 108, Mrs Dejanovic, because you have today decided to step away from Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic's session without evidence, without facts. You didn't present the facts on the basis of which you did. We demand that you present these facts in writing, and what you have heard with your ears, what you have seen with your eyes, you conclude that somehow, you do not see or hear, and we are all witnesses that you see and hear it. I'm just explaining to you the second position of Article 108, that's what this applies to. Was I clear and precise enough? You have also not responded to a scandalous campaign against SRS Vice President Dragan Todorovic, with scandalous posters. It was an open call to lynch, hick, calling and spreading hatred against political insinuators. That's what you support, you show today in this House that you support it, with every move you make, and today's lasciviousness from the Administrative Committee, which the members who were present to tell you about, is only a contribution to it. I'm finishing up, I'm just asking you, where does this go? Will the MPs of the SRS someday find at the entrance only a sign that the entrance to this assembly is forbidden for dogs and for the SRS? (President: Speak longer than predicted. Will you bring the end? Yes, I did.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14290	Of course, I do not support the attack on any MPs or on Mr. Todorovic and of course you have brought forth a mass of some contemplations that do not stand. After all, I've already pleaded, no harm to this member, in my opinion. If you are dissatisfied, in the day of the vote, the Assembly can be declared. (Elena Christmas-Talian, from the place: Yes. ) Mr. Sreto Peric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, I highly appreciate you both as a lady and as president of this House. It's not my idea to comment on the profession you're in, the Rules of Procedure can apply, but I don't want you to interpret it for me, and I'm calling for an article. 27 and 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You gave a measure of distance from the session of the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, without any evidence. You are violating the principle of power-sharing in Serbia to legislative, executive and judicial. Very interesting. You said, "No one has heard from here, otherwise I would react, when the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji spoke about this assembly pay phone, no one has heard or seen it." Of course, the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic, stressed that the SRS does not support, on the contrary, condemns any physical contact and does not need to do so and in a good way explained how we must deal with it. You don't react when another MP comes out here, you like to hear it, especially DS, because he showed it at today's session of the Administrative Committee, and that's good. Respected Serbian citizens who think you and Tomislav Nikolic are creating an opposition party, paint for free. It's an out-of-state DS department. You do whatever you want. People's MP Gordan Pop-Lazic may not like someone, but everyone, even political opponents, is extremely priced. There are historical reasons. You know that well, Madam President, in 2000, with what she was talking about, she succeeded, along with 21 other SRS MPs, to send him and the DOS where he belongs. It should also be protected as a woman, and as a lady, and as a mother, but you have apparently heard nothing and you cannot apply any of the members of the Rules of Procedure. I will also call on the Constitution, for your sake and for Mrs. Komic's sake, for it is said in article 100 – it is the National Assembly that makes 250 MPs, and in Section 1, that I do not read any further, it is not said – the same-minded MPs, but - 250 MPs who express their views in different ways, which you and Mrs. Comic do not acknowledge and do not accept. So I don't break the Rules of Procedure, I'm done, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14292	Thank you. There's no injury to the member. I've already explained. This is exactly the same content, who knows which time it's out. I acted exactly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that is why I gave all the measures that I have said today. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14293	Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, Member 27. If you look at all the National Assembly stenograms, you will see that I have never repeated the same speech in my life, nor have I used the same argument. Article 27 is too broadly set in text form, with a very precise meaning of each of these words. Each word should mean tolerance, parliamentaryism and every word in that Article 27. It should mean that those provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia relating to the National Assembly and the MPs are respected. I have to inform you, since, apparently, those who are suffling you didn't say it in time, this Rules of Procedure has been repeatedly the subject of conversations, discussions, both from institutions in the country and from abroad, and they have all expressed wonder at these provisions on punishment, because it is completely inappropriate to the spirit of parliamentaryism. This has entered our rules of procedure in 2001 or 2002, it is not so important, and it has become a means of disciplining opinions, not MPs, but opinions. There are some opinions that come out of the assembly payphone that are lice-spraying, usually by the authorities, those who conduct state terror, those who interpret each law according to their own interest and their own will, those who are on the side where the Republic of Serbia should be destroyed, well, provided that they preserve the chairs, they will not sign Kosovo's independence, but they will not do anything to defend KIM in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. It will be similar with the Duke. Cobel told you everything in time, what to do, and you can't get out of that Vade at all, out of that matrix, to get off that road. Will it be a warning, or will there be no warning? See for yourself, it's all relativeized. The important thing is that there are no regulations, no serious discussions, no serious topics, because Boris Tadic is not responding. There are these side effects. They're getting bigger. When you need to hear, you hear, when you need to, you don't see, when you read the Constitution, you get a reminder, when a lady from the SRS comes out to explain something, then she breaks up, goes back to the member, to the attitude, to this, to that. You go that way. The public in Serbia should know that once, when the SPS was independent in power, it demonstrated it. When the Democrats came to power, they demonstrated, Bodrum, Thessaloniki, Sablje, privatisation, the destruction of banks. They've demonstrated it all, but when it merges and becomes a single left, then you see. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, know, when the twilight of parliamentaryism comes, there is a twilight in your lives. Watch RTS while there's another channel. Follow the meetings of the National Assembly. Don't get too upset.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14294	Do you notice that you've timed out?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14295	We've gotten past all of this, just catch the connection between what's going on in The Hague and the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14296	We'll continue our work at 15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon. He came to the floor and wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Maric. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14298	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I'm advocating a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. According to the irrefutable evidence found in my hands, from a stenogram from today's session, Tomislav Nikolic, during the period between 13 and 1350 hours, cruelly injured the dignity of the National Assembly, article 104th century 1, 2nd and 3, addressing Mrs Pop-Lazic in an offensive manner: "There are statements by Mrs Pop-Lazic, who plays a scarecrow, legs and hands here." Tomislav Nikolic's next statement: "I said the easiest response to what this lady does, raising her hands and legs in front of me." Ms. Djukić-Dejanovic, who at that time held the session of the Assembly, under Article 106(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, she was obliged to give Tomislav Nikolic a public warning. I quote Article 106: "The warning shall be made to the People's MP if he uses curses and offensive expressions." Instead of giving a warning to Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the president of the National Assembly gave a reminder to Gordani Pop-Lazic, with the following explanation: "Mrs Pop-Lazic, I give you a warning because the MPs of the SRS have obstructed the speaker in addressing Parliament". Ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens, the Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure do not know the Institute of collective responsibility. It's a grave violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Institute of Corporate Responsibility does not know domestic legislation. The Institute of Corporate Responsibility does not know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Institute of Corporate Responsibility is currently only applicable in The Hague. I'm looking for an explanation, whether the president of the National Assembly, and on which basis, took over the illegal practice of the International Court of Justice in The Hague and that practice, in an unconstitutional, unconstitutional way, put into practice the work of the National Assembly. I demand, on the basis of Article 106, that the president of the National Assembly act under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and give public notice to Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14299	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). Excuse me, MPs. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14300	(crying) Madam Chairman, I'm sorry that Mrs. President doesn't sit in that seat, because I warned her that she brought me into an awkward situation by not reacting to what Mr. Nikolic sent me from this pay phone. You all know that I'm a widow, that I have three children and that everyone knows me as one kind and kind woman. If someone tells a woman like that to lift her legs here, in this room, what kind of message does that send? I got messages, first of all, from my children, who asked me if it was possible, Mom, that you were acting like this, from your husband's family, I apologize. When my husband died, I got 400 telegrams from my colleagues from different parliamentary groups, which was a compliment to me, because then I saw that they saw a man in me and respected me as a man, even from the LDP. If you do not respond, Madam Chairman, it will mean that I have indeed done so. The messages of my husband's family were: do you thus destroy the dignity of your late husband and all of us? Maybe I shouldn't say anything anymore, but you decide what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14301	Please, MPs, let us invest all our human strengths to treat each other with respect, not because it is written in the Rules of Procedure, but because it is a matter of humanity we share, I hope. I'm sorry about the outpouring. We all know that politics is a passionate business and that sometimes we cross the line, easy to say the insult, not thinking about how difficult the word we say is as a public word. I think that there have been enough hard emotions during this week's work and that we can all put together the will and strength to treat each other with respect, not just because of us, our biography and the difficult or whatever moments we've had in life, but because of the people whose interests we represent here. Because of them, we should sometimes do something that perhaps exceeds the usual capacities and forces of human nature. Indeed, I ask you, independently of the Rules of Procedure and provisions, to take a little humane and bring a little humanity into our mutual relations. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14302	I accept every emotion out of this pay phone. I had no intention of insulting Gordana Pop-Lazic, but Gordana Pop-Lazic, which I see best from here, and you all saw, at the moment when I said that acting a scarecrow really had both legs up, almost to the top of the bench, and both hands. Mrs. Pop-Lazic, I'm sorry, you've had your emotions. I'm a man, so I couldn't cry when you cursed my grandchildren and wanted my offspring to be completely abolished. I couldn't cry when you called me a dog. I never meant to say a hard word to you or offend you, I was just telling the truth. I've seen it all from here. Those who cry with you now have seen it from here. Did you want to show that you're not banging your legs? I don't understand that. You can act as much as you want, I didn't hurt you, and you hurt me. Now what do you want to do, beat me? I don't understand a woman who cries two hours after I insult her. If I offended you, you should've cried right away and I'd apologize right now. You came after the break. I insulted your family, and I apologize to your family, but your family doesn't know what you were doing in the O.R. You wished my family death, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. It's in the stenogram. For you, I'm a dog, for your fellow ape. Do you think I'm made of steel? You're the only one here who's protected, you're beating people, and here you say, "What's wrong with him, he's going through the O.R." You measure yourself and others with the same arches. If I were a woman, then I could cry, you'd feel sorry for me. You're a woman. I'm sorry you're crying. I don't like any woman crying. You don't prove to me by your behavior that you're a lady. Why are you doing this? Be like me. I'm not telling any of you any bad words. Lies lie to those who say I throw them ugly words. That's not true. Provoking, challenging, looking for a fight, to have reasons for obstruction. Now my conduct will be a five-day cause of obstruction, then someone else's for five days, so you will prove something third. Go ahead. If you think you're gonna drive me off the phone, you're wrong, and from now on we're taking a pay phone, so as much as you and I are, let them think "yellow" about what they're going to do with you and us. I didn't mean to offend you. Look at the way you're acting, don't put your feet in the hallway and raise them up. I didn't tell you that, God forbid, you're a bad woman, I told you to act like a scarecrow. That's the easiest thing I could say, I'm the one for you dogs, so now cry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14303	I ask the National MP Momir Markovic to take the wrong mobile phone out of the Assembly Hall, since the phone is making unpleasant noises of the speaker, I am sure, not deliberately, because at this point, after your colleague's actions, that kind of behavior is mostly about what you think of her being exposed. Please do not do this, as I ask the People's MP Milorad Krstin not to throw away, because here we have debated that all must have equal treatment in the application of the Rules of Procedure. Please consider this your faulty cell phone as your last warning, before giving a warning, that, without your intention, I am absolutely certain, with the sound of an invalid cell phone, you are disrupting the speaker and in violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I am reporting under Article 98(2), which says that the President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion. Mrs. Komic, I think, unfortunately, in the past few days, we have had the opportunity to come into this situation, that even then we have suggested a short break, because it wouldn't make sense in this situation that we continue to work. I think at this point, the best thing to do is to do it. I would remind you of what happened yesterday and today and if you had a stenogram, you have what Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic said. We won't affect anything to make any decision, as we haven't affected any previous decisions, but sit down, make a deal and see if you have anything to do with it. If you think you should, take it. If you don't think so, don't. I think now would be the best time to take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14305	I thank you for the suggestion, one in a series of very constructive and reasonable suggestions we have heard in these and previous working days. On the basis of Article 27, the chairman, i.e. the President of the National Assembly, would be given a break or consultation to make any progress and it was estimated that we had exhausted all possibilities and that the only option that remains a strict application of Article 103, which is that MPs must speak of a point on the agenda. It is the will of the MPs to begin such a session now. I think that would do everyone good, and for those who look at us and for whose interests we are here, it would finally show that we have been very argumentative to discuss amendments and additions to the draft decision on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do they want the word representatives and presidents of the parliamentary clubs? The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Please stick strictly to the provisions that give you the right to the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14306	Mrs. Komic, I don't know on what basis, before the MP comes out, you draw attention to what the MP is going to say. Wait till I say so, and then assess if you need to give me a warning, whether or not to take me away, whether or not to set a sentence by firing. Do whatever you want, but I haven't gotten here yet, and you're telling me what to say. So I'm reporting on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because before you, in the afternoon section, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, in the most harsh way possible, has repeatedly violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's obvious that today he definitely entered the scene of a complete scenario that came yesterday, to once again press Ollie Rehn, and those who have to behave according to his orders, are acting that way. Here, we have today, the latest, Wardsworth, the British ambassador, who currently believes that one of Serbia's biggest problems is the delay in adopting European laws due to the blockade in Parliament. Furthermore, on the anniversary of Kosovo's declaration of independence, this same Wardsworth tells us "the issue of Kosovo's status is over and there will be no more dialogue." So these are the reasons why some people behave like this today. Because, my dear colleague Pop-Lazic, you have no reason to react like that, because it doesn't matter what anyone tells you, it matters who tells you. Don't let yourself be offended by best friend Jorgenka Tabakovic, known from the campaign when he said he knows it's hard to be a mother, how he understands women, and from this place for months he's been showing what he's actually thinking about female. Promising a warning to Mr. Zoran Krasic. I'm trying to say everything I intend to say in these three minutes. The fact that Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic heard Krasic, and did not hear Mrs. Nada Kolundžija, is indeed totally inappropriate, as is the warning of Gordani Pop-Lazic, because someone seemed to be banging something into the bench. How can Gordani Pop-Lazic, who has shown that she has not beat her legs, nor hands, that was visible, be warned? Is it possible that in this House the Rules of Procedure of the Hague tribunal, the statute of the UN tribunal, where the joint criminal enterprise is being led? You have to take care of how you apply the Rules of Procedure, and Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I apologize for overstepping time, since she doesn't hear what those DS say, because she doesn't see violent behavior... (President: three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... Tomislav Nikolic, probably can't do what he's doing anymore. You might want to see and hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14307	There is no violation of Article 104, nor did you explain that injury, and you have misused the right to the word you received under Article 100(1). The applause of your MP group is proof that I'm right. Please, in consultation with colleagues from their parliamentary group, if they already approve that you have misused the right to a word, you are no longer doing so, because it will be the basis for a warning. Article 104 is not the basis for giving a warning measure or for giving the warning measure the basis for any MP to claim that the procedure has been violated. I warn all MPs that the pronunciation of the Rules of Procedure – that the National MP, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, will be considered a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure and the basis for the sentence. I warn you that if you intend to focus your parliamentary group's strategy during the afternoon work on how to explain the word received, that abuse of procedure and that it will be punished. I thank the SRS Parliament Club for the applause of support, just reminding you that you cannot and can not support order in the assembly, applause, and that you are making a mess in the Assembly, taking for yourself rights that you do not give to others, taking for yourself the right to beat about benches, taking for yourself the right to determine who treats other MPs and believing that you have more rights under the Rules of Procedure than other MPs. Once again, a warning that any explanation of the fact that the National Assembly President has violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by expressing criminal measures will be considered a basis for expressing the warning measure, I thank you for your support. (All the time speech by Vice-President Gordana Comic, the SRS MPs applaud. ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian wants to talk about injury to the businessman and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14308	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104. Mrs. Komic, since I am familiar with your intense commitment to women's rights, against aggressive and offensive women's speech, I expect that you will show much more understanding in this matter than Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I expect you to mark this scandalous procedure and the beating of Tomislav Nikolic, especially because it is a public figure. Not only do I expect you to give him a reminder that follows him, but I expect all MPs, because so far, such behaviour in this House has always been branded, not only when it comes to those sitting in Parliament, but also other public figures who have allowed themselves such a thing. I would not define what Tomislav Nikolic said, and that is what sociologists have already done; it is called misogyny, it is hate and demeaning of women by men, at the level of prejudice. It is defined as a crisis of male roles and identities and covers up deep ambition towards women, which can be marked as a kind of paranoia. Sociologists say the very notion of misogyny is much wider and marks the form of paranoid fixation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14309	There's no breach of Article 104. The President decides on criminal measures. This is the discretionary right of the chairman, who appreciates whether any of the members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, that is, a breach of procedure. Do they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? (All the time speech by Vice-President Gordana Comic, the SRS MPs applaud. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Todorovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting under Article 108(2). Mrs. Comic, I'm sure you'll understand. I'd like to document some things that are related to what happened in this assembly, and to what happened yesterday, and to what happened in 1995...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14311	National MP, I have made it clear that the search for words, based on Article 100, to comment on the decisions of the President of the Assembly, which are the discretionary right of the president and the chairman, will not be the basis for getting the words. Thank you. You do not have the right to speak on the basis of Article 100(1). The content of the presentations you wish to announce to the National Assembly, or to the public, you will be able to do the moment when the debate begins in a single search, when MPs have the right to explain in their own right everything they want. Do the representatives, or the presidents of the parliamentary groups, come forward? The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word on the basis of article 100. Article 1
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, reporting on the basis of article 27. The obligation that you currently have under that article is, among other things, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would ask that, if at all possible, in these three minutes I try to explain how you don't take care of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The fact that you interrupt the MP before he says what he has in mind doesn't exist as a possibility in this Rules of Procedure. You must listen, when the MP is called to the Rules of Procedure, that the MP should be called to the member by whom he calls and that you react afterwards, that you give your opinion, and that the MP should be made aware of whether he is in agreement with your explanation or whether he is asking to make a statement in the day to vote. You have obviously, for several days, not only yourself, and you and Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, for some of your known reasons, lost patience. You're so clearly showing impatience to the SRS Group of MPs that it's really unacceptable. So, Mrs. Komic, I would ask you to try to listen to all the MPs, to try to hear everything that should be subject to a warning from the chairman. You sometimes call it your right, which you say is discretionary, to abuse. No legal act allows anyone applying a legal act to abuse it, to use it – yes. It is too wide, Mrs. Komic, your interpretation of the discretionary application of the Rules of Procedure. There's got to be something that should limit you, and that's something about the norms of this Rules of Procedure. Of course, you will end up saying that the Parliament in voting day is going to plead whether or not there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, never from the congregation's majority, as it is, can we expect him to admit that there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. After all, I remind you on April 4th, when you all voted not to hurt the Rules of Procedure to say that Djindjic is the "mafijan prime minister".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14313	I have made it very clear, three times in all, that the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, the right to receive words, to speak of justification, injustice or the right of the President of the National Assembly or the chairman to impose criminal measures. With insight into the stenogram, you will see that MP Dragan Todorovic disobeyed that right and I thanked him for the misunderstanding and said there would be no abuse of the right to speak, because the alternative is to give him a warning, what is most unpopular and, apparently, the most difficult measure, regardless of whether the first warning, the second warning or a distance from the session. Abuse of the right to the word will not be, there will be strict application of the Rules of Procedure. I thank you for your applause of support for the strict application of the Rules of Procedure. Do they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. People's MPs, members of the SRS Parliamentary Group, who strategically intend to abuse the rights given to the Rules of Procedure, are making tactical gains, believing they will not be exposed to criminal measures from the Rules of Procedure, raising the Rules of Procedure, obtaining the chairmanship and obstructing the work of the Assembly. We can't both, can't, in agreement, spend the Parliament's working hours on a parliamentary group's strategy that thinks it's spotlessly political to abuse the right to "give a word" and at the same time violates all or most of the provisions prescribed by the National Assembly. I warn you to stop this behavior because you're asking me to apply the Rules of Procedure strictly. I'm glad you're applauding the belief that you understood me. Here you go, MP. (All the time speech by Vice-President Gordana Comic, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14314	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm advocating a violation of Article 100(2) that you injured during my previous date. Paragraph 2 says well: the Messenger of the people is obliged to state which provision of the Rules of Procedure is, in his opinion, violated. I said that, Article 98, Section 2, I didn't quote, because I assume you know the Rules of Procedure well, and I explained what the injury consists of. I failed because you wouldn't let me, you took my word. I respect your right to chair, to take your word, but you're wrong. My wish was not to obstruct the work of the Serbian Parliament in any way, but to try to determine the truth. I assume, first of all, that you from the DS are, I guess, the goal is to determine the truth, or is it not your goal to determine the truth? I wanted to give you some facts about what happened in 1995... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14315	People's MP, I made it very clear that abuse of the rights of the given word will not be. In the time that you have so far had at your disposal, you have said the following – that you have called for Article 98, which is not true. By looking at the stenogram, you'll see that you didn't call on Article 98. You said I took your word, which is not true. The measure of confiscation is the penalty measure to be given, it utters, after the first and second reminders have been made. None of those situations happened while you had the right to a word that you no longer had. Thank you. National MP Dragan Todorovic says he didn't hear anything from me. Unfortunately, now you know how MPs feel trying to speak while members of your parliamentary group are beating up cases about inventory. Now they're giving me a round of applause, so it's causing a noise you can't hear me about, but it's the same with the pounding stuff about inventory. I trust you didn't really hear me. It is best to experience as your own experience what you have purposed for others. Do they want the word representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: You're right, I was wrong. ) The MP, in agreement with me, says that I was right and that he was a member of 108. I thank you, since this is proof that I listen very carefully to the MPs. So I ask you to concentrate on the site if you want to fill your exposure with the content which is an explanation of the injury procedure during the session of the Assembly. Here you go, MP. (All the time speech by Vice-President Gordana Comic, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to an injury. 73, 104 and 106. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. A long-awaited session of the Administrative Committee was held today, which decided on the SRS' disputed mandates. Before I say anything about the course of the session, I am obliged to point out to the MPs and citizens of Serbia, and to you, Mrs Comic, who are zealously concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure, that today by Mr Tomislav Nikolic and his party colleagues, at a session of the Administrative Committee, called a liar, a dog and a morbid type, because I have asked the question – how is it possible that someone from back to back would hit someone with their fists in the nose and in this way inflicted such serious physical harm on them, and that severely injured today came to the meeting of the Administrative Committee, to discuss, and half an hour ago, he worshiped his party colleagues at the assembly restaurant, because the ruling coalition did not, contrary to the Constitution and the law, take away the mandate of the MP? Nothing terrible has happened; when it comes to the MPs of the SRS, then, apparently, everything is allowed. What bothered me, of course, is not these insults, but something else. Today, both the Constitution and the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament have been severely violated at the session of the Administrative Committee. Namely, one of the basic legal principles, which should be respected in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is that in the same situations, they are treated equally. It is, I guess, a fundamental democratic and European fluid. The SRS has submitted two acts to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia concerning the termination of the mandate of former SRS MP Igor Becic, Veroljub Arsic and Jelena Budimirovic, through its authorised person, Mr Dragan Todorovic. It is about the resignations of these former MPs and the statements of a parliamentary mandate at the disposal of the SRS. In addition to statements and resignations, Mr Dragan Todorovic provided the president of the National Assembly with an accompanying act signed and stamped by the Central Country Administration of the SRS; there is also the seal of the National Assembly of the Republic of January 19th 2009. Mr Tomislav Nikolic argued that statements and resignations should not be taken into account because there is no date on them, and that is why an SRS request for a decision to terminate the mandate should be rejected. Then we resigned from the former MP from G17 plus Vido Petrovic, resigned on 29 October 2008, and there was also no date, except for the seal of the Office... (President: Speak for three minutes and 30 seconds. )......................................................................................................... I apologize for hurting the Rules of Procedure. I'll call back to continue the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14317	National MP, there is no violation of Article 73, or of Article 104, and I ask you not to abuse the right to the given word, and by Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since a warning measure can be given in the same Rules of Procedure. Do they want the word representatives and ambassador groups? The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). (All the time speech by Vice-President Gordana Comic, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14318	I appeal to Article 104 – respect for the dignity of the congregation. Namely, last night's and today's boastful behaviour with regard to the Serbian Parliament, putting itself above this supreme legislative body, the current director of the Public Service has shown that he does not respect the dignity of this home, or the people's representatives in it, or the citizens who are these MPs, liked it, Mr Tijanic or not, chose it. I think this issue is important to all MPs, whether they belong to the position or to the opposition. Serbian citizens watch so-called Public service, where the basic educational show is "480 hours of wedding." Mr. Tijanic, who, due to alleged violence in the Assembly, turns off the light so that the people are not infected by aggression, is the same one who has allowed himself to slap political insolents and to present in his and in Gilas's "Marriage" a normal case of domestic violence – beating a woman from her future husband. The servant of all masters, in the manner of pit bulls, is now tearing away the only democratic fluid, thanks to which he himself became general director. He loved Mira Markovic and her literature, and now he obviously loves Miriam, I guess because of the similarity of this woman's handwriting, and he likes to be a Caliph instead of a Caliph, so now he'd be a little bit president of the Assembly, because otherwise, I don't see where he gets the right to give him orders and conditions under which Parliament will work. Although the RTS, in fact, is the public service of Boris Tadic, if I were in Boris's place, I would seriously worry, because this man, who is hyperpotent and great, is all such –'mega', is guaranteed to claim to be Boris Tadic himself. I don't know if you've seen, the following interpretations have already appeared on the Internet: RTS should not be read chirilically, but latinically, and then it's PTC, or personal Tianic Chanel. The Tianic is now in the way of Velya's hate speech. He is not an unintelligent man, but I really think he should have formal education in order to have a disciplined opinion and realize that Velimir Ilic did not mention Rasim Ljajic at any time in the context of religion, but rather in the function he performs. On the day of statehood, as the elemental order requires, the protocol should also be called by the president of the state. With this load, Mr Tijanic has projected his views, his ignorance, intolerance and already proverbial arrogance. In order for the public service to really function with the slogan – your first to know everything, we ask RTS to, for good coordination with Parliament, propose a new, objective and realistic negotiator, which will respect the fact that Parliament cannot get orders from anyone, so he was also "big boss" Tijanic. As part of the right to know everything, we will insist, at the request of a huge number of citizens, to review where our money is given for subscription and whether the Public Service really has those contents for which citizens pay. I'm sorry that there's no LDP colleague, Zarko Korać, we've worked in the school program for years and we know what educational content means. There was a fantastic educational program, which Mr. Tijanic reduced to Miriam and "480 hours of wedding". We'll see if we can do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14319	There's no breach of Article 104. You did not explain the injury of any member or the violation of the procedure during the session of the National Assembly. Please do not abuse the right that we believe we have when we ask for a word and on the basis of Article 100(1). The abuse of rights is just as bad as the lack of rights. I warn all Members of the People who intend to abuse Article 100, that will be considered to be the case for any presentation of a MP who is not quoted as a member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, explaining the procedure in which... National MP Momir Markovic, it's still your wrong phone. Please help someone. So to explain what the injury is in and then to hear the explanation of the chairman. National MP Jadranko Vukovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14320	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I would draw your attention to Article 27, where it is said that the President of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mrs. Komic, before the break, my witness is Veljko Odalović and Mrs. President, the second I was in line, and you're ignoring me, I don't know why. You sanctioned me yesterday, and I don't think there's any reason you shouldn't give me your word. I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27 and Article 104. Mrs. Komic, in order to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly, it is not possible to do so only by sanctioning. Now you're the deputy president of the National Assembly, you're the chairman here, and I want to draw your attention to something I've seen in the papers, to protect the MP and this institution, we're all national representatives. I'll show my fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14321	People's MP, I can't be more clear than I was. You have no right to speak. It's abuse of rights. On the basis of Article 100, you have no right to speak. Thank you. People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Please, if you intend to receive the word for breach of the Rules of Procedure, wait your turn and do not forget that we are strictly applying the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the giving of the right to the word, use and abuse of rights and obligations for justification. Here you go. (All the time speech by Vice-President Gordana Comic, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 27, paragraph 1 point 4. I'll give you proof that today's session of the Administrative Committee...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14323	People's MPs, I made it clear that the word can be obtained for injury procedures during the session. Thank you. Do they want the word representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups? National MP Milan Škrbić wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14324	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I finally got my word after two days of reporting and changing hundreds of orders and lists... May I continue? (President: I'm not in the way. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, Serbian citizens, I will try to use my parliamentary right to, on the basis of Articles 100, 1 and 2, address both you and the citizens of Serbia and to advertise Article 27 in one part, not to read it, for the sake of time. I must say, since I'm reporting for the first time these days, thanks to the fact that I finally got my word, that we should all ask ourselves -- who is to blame for this situation here, for those who chair, or the MPs, especially the MPs of the SRS, because it is obvious that they are all to blame?- I'm sorry. The tension of yesterday and raised, apparently, was changed when it came to the MPs of the SRS. You've obviously, for some of you known reasons, perhaps some commissioner reasons, since yesterday, changed your style, both you and the president. It's so obvious, I don't say funny, and that's why, since you're the chairman, I want to draw attention to yesterday, which is why I wanted to take this call. You're... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14325	People's MP, I have made it clear that you can only explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the course of today's session. Thank you. You have no right to speak. I am informing the National Assembly, based on Article 85 of Article 5, that we will be working after 18 hours today, having a debate on a point that is on the agenda at that time, not for more than 20 hours. Do they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups? National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of article 100. Article 1 (All the time the presentation of the chairman, Gordana Komic, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 27 and 104. I don't know, Madam Chairman, what you have against me. I don't mind if you're against me, but to warn me and warn me when I'm sitting still, when my phone isn't ringing, and I'm not to blame for my phone ringing like that. It may have bothered you, but even when my phone doesn't ring, you call out the MP Momir Markovic out of pure peace. I think it's about time you stopped. You can't stand me, it's your personal right, but neither you nor I are here because of emotion or anything else, but because of doing the job our voters sent us here to do. It's interesting to bother you, even when I raise my hand, you've warned me three times today, and I haven't done anything. Please get rid of it and treat me like all the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14327	I am fully in agreement with you, People's Messenger, and in no way do I have anything personal against you or against any of the People's Messengers. All 249 MPs are exactly the same in the application of the Rules of Procedure and I apologize to you if the mobile machine, which is obviously incorrect, rings and interferes, was not yours, but one of your colleagues. I'm sorry, really. The sound came from where you were sitting. Otherwise, we find the use of mobile phones inadmissible in the National Assembly Hall, we agree on that, of course. People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). (All the time the presentation of the chairman, Gordana Komic, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14328	Mrs. Comic, just now, when you interrupted me, I tried to explain that the procedure was violated at the board's session. [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14329	People's MPs, I have made it clear that the right to a word, based on Article 100, can be obtained from a violation of a session procedure that is under way. It's the application of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want? National MP Marina Ragush wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets the river base of Article 100(1). (All the time the presentation of the chairman, Gordana Komic, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14330	Ladies and gentlemen, the basis for this notification is Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but before that, Mrs Comic, I would like to ask you whether they have been abolished or suspended. 225th and 226th of this Rules of Procedure? I can't talk to you any other way unless I come for the pay phone and you give me your word. The base is 104, but I want to ask you if I can use the basics of the article. 225th and 226th?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14331	No, MPs, these are members in the area of the rights and duties of the Members of the People, of the Art. 221 and 231. If you have noticed that there has been an injury procedure during work, at present, in the Assembly, then you have the right, and abuse of rights, using an art. 225 and 226, using the parliamentary group's strategy to prevent discussion in particular, i.e. a single search, prohibits strict application of the Rules of Procedure, both for you and for me. The arrangements to apply the Rules of Procedure did not bring good to the opposition or to the ruling majority or to this joint house.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14332	Thank you, indeed, for your answer. So on the basis of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for the sake of the public, will quote: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. They are also obliged to address one another with respect." Mrs. Komic, I expect you to help me explain the situation now. Indeed, a flagrant violation of the dignity of a prestigious home, such as the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and no one cares how much the SRS should return all the work in this society to normal work and the institutions of the system and state. The SRS MPs are, I think, equal by rights, because someone voted for us and we won 78 mandates in May 2008, so we need protection of the dignity and MPs of the SRS. Why did I ask you if there was a way I could call Article 226? Because it would allow me to do my duty as an MP during this extraordinary session. The SRS MPs, through the means of public information, are daily mocked, in the context of obstruction of Parliament's work, in the context of the fact that 51 more laws that the EU has put in place as a priority for us cannot be passed. When the 51 laws are passed, we hope that the citizens of Serbia will indeed live a life of worthy men. We guarantee you he won't. We will see what the fate of the EU will be at the end of this year and in the middle of next year. There are announcements that the European Union is and how it is threatened within its own organisation, but that is the topic, perhaps, for some other announcement and for working on this agenda; I look forward to it. Why I actually went out for this pay phone. I want to inform the public, which has no opportunity, because only 30% of the people in Serbia use the Internet, to monitor the writing of the head of the diplomatic mission of Great Britain on his blog, which in the most dramatic way is roseming the reputation of the SRS and thus directly interferes with the political life of the Serbian state. In order not to be reminded that I would willingly and self-initiately interpret Mr. Wardsworth's words, he called us on his blog, Mrs. Komic, a reaction to you, as chairman and the National Assembly, in terms of protecting the dignity of the SRS Parliamentary Group, a brand of negative nationalism, he commended the SNS, because this is an example of what nationalists should look like, and he told us that we are certainly leaving in the past and that Serbia has turned a new leaf. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I apologize for these 37 seconds. This is the first time this week I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, to express what I've been guaranteed by the Constitution. Now I expect from you and from this institution, spotlessly, as you say, to protect the integrity of the people who won 78 seats in the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14333	There's no breach of Article 104, nor can there be any damage to the procedures of anyone outside this room. Do they want the word representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups? National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). (At all times, Vice-President Gordana Comic's speech, SRS MPs applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14334	Madam Chairman, I called before the break, Mr. Odalovic knows. I switched places with Mr. Martinovic. I wanted to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the Assembly. Of course, part of that responsibility goes to you, too, in the follow-up of the afternoon session, but I believe that the President of the Assembly today, reflecting on the debate throughout the day, has injured Article 27 and Article 27. 104. Rules of Procedure, Abuse Art. 108. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Today, the measure of distance from the session is said... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14335	People's MP, I warn you to use the right generation when you talk about the president of the National Assembly, because Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic cannot agree, by name and gender, with the male generation of verbs. I would like to inform you, if you were not in the O.R., that giving a warning measure, the first, the second reminders and the distances from the session are not the basis for breach of the Rules of Procedure and that this is the abuse of Article 100(1). I thank you, with the support of your MP group, for my view that there must be no abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Dejan Mirovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). (At all times, Vice-President Gordana Comic's speech, SRS MPs applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14336	Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with an injury. 104, 27, 31, 73, 221. The Rules of Procedure and on the basis of infringements of Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a position of 16, but also based on a violation of the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14337	People's MP, I warn you to act on Article 100, when you have been given the right to speak, and to explain. I don't suppose you can hear me. It's the applause. I'm saying, obviously you can't hear me. It's the applause of your colleagues. So if you want to hear me, or if they stop supporting me, or if there is a misunderstanding between you and me about what needs to be done. We'll wait for them to stop, and then we'll decide how it continues. Please let me... I'm absolutely not disturbed. I'm sorry you don't hear what I'm saying, because they're giving me applause. Please, MP, apply article 100 in all positions precisely, so that you may have the right to a word. Did you hear me now, or did you hear a noise...? You didn't hear me. You're being distracted by colleagues from your parliamentary group, so you can't hear the chairman's instructions. We'll wait for them to stop the applause of support, and we'll continue. You didn't hear me again. You left the pay phone for no reason. You were not prevented from speaking to the chairman's decisions, but by the conduct of members of your parliamentary group, and that is proof of what kind of paradox the strategy of a parliamentary group leads to to interfere with the speaker. Your colleague had the right to continue speaking, but because of your living desire to support me with applause, he didn't understand the instructions. Does the word want representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups? National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). (At all times, Vice-President Gordana Comic's speech, SRS MPs applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14338	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of article 200. And, Mrs. Comic, you don't need to run away from your popularity. You can see how we reward in the best possible way your efforts and the commitment to work in the Serbian Parliament in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Member of the 200th says - the government, or the minister, must reply orally immediately. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14339	National MP, Art. In 200, he cannot be harmed during this procedure, because during this session he prohibits the application of members who prescribe a way to ask parliamentary questions and obligations to those whose questions are being asked. The applause we get together, I think it's going more to you than to me; however, the MPs of your parliamentary group applaud. Thank you. I know you can't hear me. That's because your MPs express their support. From this support you cannot hear the instructions of the Chairman on the application of the Rules of Procedure. I am sorry that your own MPs are preventing you from exercising your right to the word you have under article 100. Do they want the word representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups? The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). (At all times, Vice-President Gordana Comic's speech, SRS MPs applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14340	I'm reporting from article 100. The Rules of Procedure and I will quote this article: ''To the People's MP, who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. The MP shall indicate which provision of the Rules of Procedure, in his opinion, is injure, that it quotes and explains what the injury consists of, by being able to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. If, even after an explanation by the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly, without a search, will decide on the issue on the day of the vote. ''Mrs. Comic, today all afternoon you have not allowed a single MP to come to the application of the 100th in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, because, based on something that doesn't say anything, you are interpreting that this member and attitude 1 are applied to the infringement of the procedure. I will quote once again: "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." Is the infringement of the Rules of Procedure a member of 200, Article 50, Article 255, Article 101, Article 1 etc? It is up to the People's MP to say the word in the Rules of Procedure - I believe that this and that member is injured, and my argument that a member is hurt is that way, so you listen well to all of this, Mrs. Komic, and then, as I am saying now, I would like to respect attitude 2 if you would allow it, to skip finally that 1, which you will not allow us to skip), to show what you have to say. It happens sometimes that you have no comment, although you often have comments that are very pleasant for the ears; therefore, the MPs of the SRS and applaud, so we show enthusiasm. After that, the MP tells you whether he is satisfied or not with your answer. So, Mrs. Comic, the most beautiful please, regardless of what Olli Rehn said, what Wardsworth said, is not a problem in the National Assembly, the problem in Serbia's functioning is in the DS. Today I hear that the problem is that bridges are not being built around Belgrade because the City Assembly is holding session. Don't overdo it. You have to allow us, you are under obligation, you do not have to do anything, of course, but if you respect this Rules of Procedure, you are required to allow each MP to use Article 100(1) with the explanation provided for in paragraph 2. Do you have time for that? (President: three minutes 30 seconds. I'm sorry, Mrs. Comić, for a minute and 14 seconds I've quoted exactly that much. I'm just finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14341	Excuse me, MPs, the clock shows four minutes and 12 seconds; I told you in four minutes that it was three minutes and 30 seconds, in four minutes, precisely because you quoted the Rules of Procedure. There's no damage to article 100. Every MP who asked for the word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure has already received it. The only MP who has failed to exercise his right to speak is MP Dejan Mirovic, who has failed to hear my instructions because of what you say, the applause you give me because of the way I conduct the session. All other MPs received word on the basis of Article 100(1). No MP, by applying the Rules of Procedure, will be able to abuse the right of the Rules of Procedure and the word obtained under Article 100(1). That's what you ask of me, that's what other MP groups ask of me, and it will be applied. A clear warning of what abuse is said several times. I understand that because of the applause that you're staying at, some of you haven't heard it, as I understand that you haven't seen me say three minutes and 30 seconds at the moment when there were four minutes, which means I'm also taking care of the time available to you to quote the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. (The SRS MPs applaud the speech of the chairman Gordana Komic all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, in my previous report, when I quoted Article 200, I had no intention of asking a parliamentary question, but, in accordance with Article 100, I wanted to do exactly as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia said. I assume it is of interest for you to allow the Assembly, as a legislative body, as one of the three branches of government, to exercise its control over executive and judicial authority. I assume it's of interest to you. I wouldn't want to gain a different belief. Because of this role that Parliament should have, I would like to, on the basis of Article 200, to even call on and call on Mr Novakovic, as a witness at a time when I have asked this parliamentary question, because Article 200, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, says I must not start reading now, you may stop me: "Extremely, if it is necessary to establish certain facts in the preparation of the response to the parliamentary question, which requires a longer or more complex analysis, a deadline for answering the parliamentary question, can be extended, but no more than 30 days." Mr. Novakovic will confirm that this question, which, among other things, was advertised by Ms. Marina Ragus, was asked more than a month ago by the time English Ambassador Stephen Wardsworth appeared in public and took the right to comment and evaluate Parliament and political parties in Parliament. I asked our foreign ministry to react in the way it reacts in all civilised and independent states and to direct one of the notes, whether it will be the sharpest, or in what form, it doesn't matter, but to also put English ambassadors and citizens of Serbia to the knowledge that we are not a colony, that they can't behave in this way. I think that was quite appropriate, that it is also in the interest of the Serbian Parliament, and of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, we are getting into a situation where there is still no answer to that question. I wonder, as an MP and as a citizen, whether at all our ministry or any government body, anyone in this country, can put...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14343	There's no damage to article 100, because you got the word. When, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, you explain, there can be no harm to the procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). (The SRS MPs applaud the speech of the chairman Gordana Komic all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14344	Mrs. Komic, I'm reporting from article 104. The Rules of Procedure, as well as Article 47, which regulates the work of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I believe my dignity has been violated, as a MP and a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Namely, on my private phone number of the MTS network, while sitting at the post of vice president, probably from the Foreign Affairs Service, because I will give the secretary this number to check, the following message arrived: "Respect, in a visit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a British delegation comes. Meeting with members of the Foreign Affairs Committee scheduled for Thursday, I don't know which Thursday, 'at 10.50 p.m., and dinner at 20 p.m.'. Many would be happy in this hall, and especially Tomislav Nikolic, if now, at this moment, Wardsworth invited him to the phone and said – come on, come tonight at 8:00. I'd get ready...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14345	National MPs, you cannot in any way present in the context of your presentation the facts that you consider to be true, which relate to the private life of other persons, Article 104 paragraph 2. If you feel that it is enough to apologize to the MP to whom you have violated Article 104 in your address, I ask you to do so, otherwise I warn you that such address is the basis for the application of Article 106 and for giving notice. You have two minutes to complete your exposure to Article 104's injury. (The SRS MPs applaud the speech of the chairman Gordana Komic all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14346	As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, considering that my dignity has been injured, I ask that the Service address me, as well as the Secretary of the Assembly, and to explain to me why such matters are being notified by the MPs via SMS messages? Now let me tell you, as chairman, let him enter the stenographic notes, that no more, no more calls, no more meetings of the Committee, and this is who knows which times when it comes to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will not accept as valid, that they inform me on my mobile phone, because a member of the 47th and the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been broken, especially when it comes to parliamentary arrivals or I don't already know which delegations. You are thus further destroying the integrity of the MPs and the National Assembly in general. When you have already started texting you invite MPs to come here and here, I really don't know what further I can expect from Parliament and from this way of holding a session. After all, this is not the first time you have treated MPs with such disrespect, exclusively the SRS, which is why two weeks ago, as members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Ms Marina Ragus, Mr Momir Markovic, Mr Ognjen Mihajlović and my little one, were fiercely protested. No one wanted to, Mrs Kolundzija was present at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at the time, to explain why DS, whose instrument in this case Dragoljub Micunovic, treats Serbian Radicals MPs this way. You think you understand this area better than we do? Be assured, that the Serbian Radical is at the post of foreign minister, in the place of those who take care of the interests of the Serbian state, and especially Serbs in KIM, especially all Serbs who have been exiled from their centuries-old hearths, which you have forgotten, would feel much better and prouder for every Serb, who is humiliated today under your authority and authority by Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14347	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 104(3) has been injured. I have to quote him, "It's not allowed to use offensive expressions, nor is it to make facts and estimates regarding the private life of others' faces." I would ask you to remind every MP who interprets my emotions, my feelings, what would make me happy, what wouldn't make me happy. So the previous speaker entered the interpretation of my private life, tried to prove that I would be happy with some kind of call. Please spare me more of those grades. I'm really going to object every time from now on to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Maybe that way we'll stop some kind of conflict that you're pushing, between our two parliamentary groups, from staying at some lower level, at a low-intensity level. So, I claim that the previous speaker hurt the Rules of Procedure, by giving reviews of what would make me happy, or what would not make me happy. Please, say whatever you want, it's up to the chairman to determine whether you've hurt the Rules of Procedure or not, but about me and my life, as I'm not talking about you, don't talk about you. (All the time the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14349	National MP Natasa Jovanovic's MP has been warned of the rules of the Rules of Procedure, which we are all obliged to respect. I consider it a good application of the Rules of Procedure to give a warning, to remind everyone of what it is that we have to respect, and only then, after knowingly violating the warning, to impose criminal measures, and according to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic followed the warning and, conditionally speaking, she no longer violated Article 104. So every MP has the right to be only warned and to remember that we are obliged to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and only then, I hope, without notice. No parliament likes punishment. The word has been made by MP Petar Jojic, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14350	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, as more chaired by you, I call on the provisions of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, since paragraph 3 is normable that the President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With that in mind, I expect respect, because you, I believe, know the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14351	People's MP, it is clear that we are talking about a breach of procedure and a member of this session, that it will be considered and it is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to give the right to say that three minutes, or more, are being spent on an explanation of the injury that could not have occurred during this session. Thank you. (The SRS MPs applaud the speech of the chairman Gordana Komic all the time. ) Do representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups want the word? The word is from MP Nikola Savic, who wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14352	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, I report to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, which refers to the dignity of the National Assembly. Now I'm going to explain to you what a violation of dignity consists of. In fact, he was visiting Serbia yesterday, and he, on his way...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14353	People's MP, I have made it very clear that the breach of procedure, the violation of members of the Rules of Procedure, is the basis for receiving words, and the visit of Ollie Reno cannot be the basis for that. Thank you. (The SRS MPs applaud the speech of the chairman Gordana Komic all the time. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14354	Madam Chairman, I will not suggest that this member you mention is not the only basis for reporting, but I will refer to Article 104 - the dignity of the National Assembly, for one very, I think, for a country of important reason. Today we are visibly upset by the title in "Politica", where Mr. Tadic, the president of the state, says we are not preventing entry...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14355	National MPs, member 104, cannot be harmed beyond this session. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Article 104 refers to what happens during the session. Please return to your seat. Thank you. We have very clearly defined what the use of a member of 100th and the right to a word and what abuse means. Abuse will not be allowed because you are asking me to apply the Rules of Procedure strictly. Please return to your seat. People's MPs, I've heard enough to conclude that this is about abuse of the right to speak, and I ask you to return to your seat, reminding you of the provision of a member of the Rules of Procedure, that no one can approach the speaker of the National Assembly, nor be at the speaker of the National Assembly without the permission of the chairman. Please sum up the control role of Parliament with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. (The SRS MPs applaud the speech of the chairman Gordana Komic all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14356	So, I just wanted to draw the attention of the MPs to what the role of Parliament is. So he has a triple role. In addition to being a legislative body, we are also a representative but also a control body. For this reason, I believe that Parliament is denied for very important information, given the words of the President of the Republic, which, in some ways, represents a state and, in part, leads foreign policy, although it is within the authority of the Government elected by this Parliament. We need to have more information on that. You know what I'm saying that for? Madam Chairman, I'm going to give you, excellent English, you've traveled around the world a lot, "Economist" in English, which confirms what our president says and makes a difference in whether, in this way, we, at a small door, recognise Kosovo. The "Economist" says the de facto is a frozen issue of Kosovo at the moment, but in 2009, what de facto will be recognised will not be de jured, but this is how it is done now. I therefore draw attention to Parliament that it might be good to call on the President of the Republic on this important issue, why not, to tell us whether he is aware of the fact that if he confesses, i.e. does not prevent Kosovo from entering the financial institutions of Evorpe, thus, at a small door, de facto acknowledging Kosovo's independence. I'm going to ask you to copy that page so you can give me back this sheet, it's valuable to me. I know that you are interested, given that you are a representative of our parliament in the OSCE and that in many other organisations, European, global, and that this, as a member of the DS, will welcome you as information that, perhaps, on one of your party bodies, you will talk about it. Please send someone to copy it for you and then return this list to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14357	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Milisav Petronijevic is not in the O.R., he asked for a word. National MP Petar Jojic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14358	Madam Chairman, I have to ask you to explain, I'm asking you right now, maybe I'm mistaken, or I don't understand. I expect you'll give me a precise answer, so I won't be mistaken, and that's a legal error. Is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in force? That's all I ask, so I don't have to ask again, maybe, some question that you don't have an answer for, or maybe it's incorrect, or it doesn't make sense, or it doesn't have anything to do with the Parliament. Please answer me, as the previous question, is this Rules of Procedure still in force, or is it something else, that this Rules of Procedure is no longer in place here? If you can't explain and legally interpret, there's a DS lawyer here, there's a chairman of the Administrative Board, a lawyer, here, with the help of lawyers and lawyers, I'd ask for an interpretation. It seems to me that I'm not professional enough, after 35 years of doing legal science, law and all, I don't seem to know any legal regulations. I have written laws and participated with many teams in the federal government, both in the Republic, and in the professional public, where I have learned, above all, and proved that the legal law applies until that day until the competent authority puts it outside the legal force. It is for nothing, Mrs. Comic, that we convince ourselves here, because there is no result from that belief, no one benefits. You have good intentions. We must, as a preliminary question, discuss whether this Rules of Procedure is in effect or not. This will go to court. If someone is so stubborn and doesn't accept it, here's the expert public in the Republic of Serbia, lawyers, lawyers, judges, prosecutors. We have a Rules of Procedure that is still in force, but I am sorry if Nada Kolundzija put him outside the legal force and Boris Tadic. Let's not do that. This can't be hidden. Please, Mrs. Kolundzija, you know very well, Mr. Konstantinovic, you're a lawyer and a lawyer. Come out for this pay phone and tell me if the provisions of Art. 225th and 226th or not. If you prove that they are still in force... (President: three minutes MP, thank you. Please state which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, where the procedure has been violated. )......................................................................................................... I'm asking you, Mrs. Kolundjia, from you, sir... (President: I warn you that you are violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure...) I apologize for taking a few seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14359	You have not taken a few seconds, but you have not fulfilled the obligation under Article 100(1). National MP, you have asked for a word under Rule 100, explaining what it means to apply members, and you have not fulfilled your own parliamentary obligation to, under Rule 100, specify which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured and how the procedure has been violated. That, MP, is abuse of right to word. I warn you, this is the basis for a warning measure. Don't leave room for me to keep this session under wraps but to make warnings. It's much less what I like to do than you comment on. If there was any hope, I would explain it to you. So you violated Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rudely demeaning the right to the word, disregarding the provisions that you are obliged to quote which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please don't do this anymore. The word has the People's MP Milan Škrbić. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. (The SRS MPs applaud the speech of the chairman Gordana Komic all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14360	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am using my parliamentary right to address the injury once more, on the basis of Articles 100, 1 and 2. I will read for the sake of Serbian citizens, Article 100(2) says that the MP is obliged to specify what provision of the Rules of Procedure is, in his opinion, injured, quoted and explain what the infringement is. So I repeat, in his opinion. Does this mean that as a People's MP, not as Milan Skrbić, but as a National MP, I have no right to my own opinion, but I have to think as I am forced to do? I will not, and I am sure that there is a injured member of the 27 - that the President of the National Assembly takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. It seems to me that neither bodies nor committees work here, committees are working bodies, it seems to me we don't have the same Rules of Procedure, we, the MPs of the SRS, and you, Madam Chairman. You probably have some Rules of Procedure from some commissioner who was brought to you yesterday. Turn off the microphone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14361	National MP, I warn you that you are violating Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and that the provision which you have stated, concerning the custody of the working bodies, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and the abuse of the right to the word. Please don't do this. Abuse of the right to the word is one of the gravest violations that can be committed in parliament. I really ask you not to abuse the right that belongs to all the MPs, to get word if they want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). (All the time speech by Vice-President Gordana Comic, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14362	Fired Mihajlović, SRS, member 104, and I'd like more, say, 225, but I have to ask you, is he suspended in the meantime? Do I have the right to speak to him? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14363	People's MP, I've spoken clearly of abuse of right to word. Thank you and please step away from the pay phone. You see, we can respect the Rules of Procedure. I was wondering if the Rules of Procedure were in effect? Yes, it is. It's the first time it's applied, strictly applied, and I'm asking you to appreciate that. National MP Milisav Petronijevic wants a word. Here you go. (All the time speech by Vice-President Gordana Comic, the MPs of the SRS applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14364	Thank you very much. You have called several times to report to the heads of Parliament or authorised representatives who want a word, and I must immediately tell you that I have responded on that basis and on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14365	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive and not to violate the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: You can't, we contacted the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14366	I've answered by...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14367	People's MP, stop throwing from the bench and distracting the speaker. National MP Milisav Petronijevic has a word. We will pay attention, with respect to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14368	Several times, the chairman called the heads of parliament and authorised representatives, and I answered. I didn't take my word for it. I answered it. Please, do I have a word or don't I? I have no intention of kidnapping.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14369	For the last time, I ask the messengers of the people to stop breaking the Rules of Procedure, for there will be an expression of the measure of admonition. Don't interrupt the speaker who got the word. No one wants to be distracted. Here you go, MP, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14370	Thank you very much. I will shortly announce the position of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group on the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Please, I don't want to compromise, I just want to take advantage of my rights, I answered and I got my word. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will support changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure. The SPS-JS parliamentary group considers this to be just a transitional solution, in the short term, as one of the possibilities for this assembly, of course, with an agreement, which we always give priority to, faster and more effectively, without reducing the rights of any MP. We believe that the right solution is to bring in a new Rules of Procedure. Of course, before that, the Law on the National Assembly, and both, in line with the Constitution of Serbia. Just to remind you that a working group was formed in the term of the last government for both the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure. However, there was no joint agreement. In this term, working groups have been re-formed for both the law and the Rules of Procedure. The SPS-JS considers the Rules of Procedure to be a small constitution for the National Assembly, that it is not an ordinary act and that it should be brought on the basis of the agreement of all the factors in the Assembly, or at least with the highest degree of consistency possible. For these reasons, on behalf of the SPS, I say that as a parliamentary group we will do everything, make a full contribution to reach a common Rules of Procedure, which will suit all. It doesn't matter who the position is now, and who the opposition is, because in the next election, all other elections, the relationship will change, etc. The Rules of Procedure should apply and be the same for everyone. I am also taking the opportunity to invite all parliamentary groups to take part in the joint work, because if we all participate, then we can come to a common solution. We believe that these changes should be accepted for the following reasons. To the Serbian assembly, not to speak widely now, legislative activity is a priority; it is a very great need for the National Assembly to pass laws as quickly as possible. Just for the sake of the public, let me say that there are 87 laws in the procedure waiting for them to come to the Assembly's agenda. Of course, it should be in everyone's interest for the Assembly to work on it, to work on the laws. It is an opportunity when attitudes and positions and opposition face each other in the strictest possible way, but within that. We can have different approaches, but Serbian citizens, in large numbers, want to join the EU. One of the preconditions is, and the obligation of us politicians, regardless of the difficulties, is to enable them to do so, faster harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation. Next, I repeat, not at the expense of any MP's rights, the Assembly must be both more rational and efficient, and these amendments to the Rules of Procedure are one attempt to make it so. It's the fourth reason. We who sit here have contributed greatly, with many of them outside this congregation, to the destruction of the authority of the National Assembly. The question arises, if the National Assembly, as the highest legislative, representative and supervisory authority and the only state institution in which both the position and the opposition are located, is it possible to exercise supervision without authority? The SPS-JS parliamentary group thinks that, whether we're a position or an opposition, we should all do everything we can to restore authority and dignity to the National Assembly. In the end, the Assembly makes laws. If she doesn't pass the laws, then who will bring them for her? If someone else brings them, it can only be regulations, there can be other ways, and then the whole system is destroyed, the state is destroyed. We all need to be in the interest, regardless of who the positions are, that we are all together protecting the interest of Serbia and the interest of the state. We believe that these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure do not reduce rights, but rather reduce the possibility of abuse of rights, even, we think that the Member of 100th and the member who speaks of parliamentary issues is more decadent. So far, I remind you, whether I can, as a rule, at the end of the agenda, ask parliamentary questions, or another time, it was all academic and nothing direct. Now it's very precise - last Thursday. As a parliamentary group, we are ready to discuss other proposals that will improve this text and we are not rejecting any opinions, any proposal that will allow, by common agreement, to come to an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. We think it is necessary that we all make an effort together to reduce the tensions that are present and that every day, more and more, we send messages to the citizens of Serbia, not that we all think alike, not that we are very different, but that we are different in a political attitude, and that we are all the same when it comes to protecting the dignity of the Assembly, when it comes to effective work, when it comes to the Assembly doing what is necessary. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14371	The word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic, and he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (The SRS MPs applaud the speech of the chairman Gordana Komic all the time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14372	Mrs. Comic, I think you are absolutely aware that the Rules of Procedure has been severely injured, that you have injured him, and in advance I ask that the Serbian Parliament, in the day of the vote, be heard about it. Mrs. Comic, an injured member of the 100th, 1st position, which says: "The People's MP, who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, gives the president of the National Assembly the word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. ''Mrs. Comic, I assume the secretary is keeping an orderly record of the names and last names of the MPs who called in, you will surely find a dozen names of the SRS MPs who have reported to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. What has now been done by the previous speaker is the fruit of the agreement, or the talks held by the head of the ZES Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Kolundžija, and the Secretary of the Assembly, Mr Veljko Odalovic, in order to try to prevent SRS MPs in some way... Mr. Konstantinovic, I know it's nice to you, but the Rules of Procedure is the Rules of Procedure and a very simple question has been asked here. It was asked by Mr Petar Jojic, who was the minister of justice in the federal government, I suppose you can still believe that a man is expert in asking you a simple question – until a single act, such as this one, is valid and since when does it cease to apply? He asked you the same question, Mrs Comic, and I ask everyone the same question – until when does the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia ('The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia', number 56/05, purified text, and 81/06) apply? It's very simple questions. I know you can't handle this easily, but if we can stand to take our mandates, punish us, forbid us to speak in the Rules of Procedure, at least you have so much patience to hear the truth, nothing more. Don't break the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Comic, because it will, however this all ends, in some way remain a clue. I call upon some messengers not to be a tool in the hands of the DS; a certain time has passed, everything is seen, there is no reason to be ashamed afterwards, and it is too late. Thank you very much and forgive me for these ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14373	No injuries to Rules of Procedure and Article 100. At the moment I spoke to MP Milisav Petronijevic, there was no one who wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and now about the answers to the questions you asked. If it can be without distraction and without violating the members of the Rules of Procedure, applause is allowed, but I ask you not to beat cases of inventory, since it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure shall be in force and the Rules of Procedure shall be in force for the first time. Since you asked me, and you are the president of the parliamentary groups, your parliamentary group has a very clear strategy to prevent this assembly from launching a unique search of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is your legal and legitimate right to try, in the framework of respect for the Rules of Procedure, to prevent the principled debate, i.e. a unique search of amendments and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to take place. As long as we do it by respecting the Rules of Procedure, it will be legal and legitimate. No abuse of the right to a word and no abuse of business rights will be allowed. So when you ask me if the Rules of Procedure is in force – yes, it is, in its strict application. The right to speak by article 100 can be obtained and the word can be given if the provisions of Article 100 are respected, otherwise, it cannot, because it is an abuse of rights. Or organise a different strategy, as a Parliament club, to prevent the debate, a unique search of the Amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or, despite the warnings, we continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, and then you will leave me no room other than to express criminal measures, and then it is a joint decision, which I regret in advance, because I see that this strategy is clear both by your approval and by the approval of MPs who beat up cases about inventory. What we don't understand is that the beginning of a debate, a single search, would benefit your parliamentary group. Please let's try to understand it together. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). (At the same time as Presiding Gordana Komic, SRS MPs applaud. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14374	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 100 of Item 4 – if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. Mrs. Komic, the explanation you gave regarding the validity of the Rules of Procedure brings me into a serious dilemma. I don't think it's just today, he's been applying since yesterday. What are we going to do for all these previous days, when the Rules of Procedure has been interpreted differently and applied differently? There's no way we can apply each other to the Rules of Procedure. That makes sense. Can't even Please, Mrs. Comic has an exclusive right, when I am behind the pay phone, to throw, to comment, and Zaka is right. [[Lowers from the bench: Don't get it.]] Therefore, do not in any way prevent Mrs. Komic, because her remarks are precious to me. This is, as they say, interactive work. I make my remarks, Mrs. Comic is trying to convince me of her views, in her way of leading the Republika Srpska Assembly. I suppose Mrs. Comić and I are tough nuts, but, slowly, given these applauses you get from MPs, some things are already changing. Let's get back to the point. Mrs. Komic, we're going to have to take a stenogram until yesterday's session, so we can start to list and advertise an extremely large number of violations of the Rules of Procedure by all the chairmans who chaired and interpreted the Rules of Procedure, I can't say wider, wrong, it's a very simple thing – you're right, you have no right. You did not say in the Rules of Procedure – on Tuesdays and Thursdays you have the right, Wednesdays, Mondays or Saturdays, you have no right. There are very precise things, Mrs. Komic, and, since I have no doubt that you will find a lot of arguments to explain this way of leading the Assembly and applying this Rules of Procedure, it is possible that the arguments you will make will be so strong that they will convince not only me, but also the other MPs of the SRS, not to search, or to read the stenograms, to continue the list of violations of the Rules of Procedure by the chairman. Excuse me for these five seconds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14375	By looking at the stenogram of today, through yesterday's work day and working days before them, you will be able to read the following. During today’s working day, I warned the MPs that the abuse of the right to seek word on the basis of article 100 and then dedicate the contents of my presentation to the event that took place on the second working body, the event that took place away from today, the event that took place in the media or the event that resulted in the punishment of the President of the National Assembly. I am obliged to make that clear during the day, as a warning to the MPs, and that is clearly said. During yesterday's, the day before yesterday and the day before yesterday, with the co-operation of Parliamentarian Dragan Stevanović, which I thanked him for, as you can see in the stenogram, we have concluded that the rights and duties of MPs are in the work of members of Rules of Procedures from 221 to 231, that there is no application of Article 222 and that the MP considers that there is no need to be an article. 226 and 225. In the previous working day, with insight into the stenogram, you can check that I have explained in which way, in an attempt to agree on the ruling majority and the opposition to make an agreement on the work of the National Assembly, a silent agreement was made on the application of Article. 226th and 225th during the assembly session and that the opposition decided to break the deal. The opposition, with its behaviour and its decisions, made it clear that all the silent agreements on the tolerance of the Rules of Procedure, instead of the strict one, do not give absolutely any results and that, by the opposition, only the works of the opposition, your MP groups, the SRS Group, there is no such thing as, unfortunately, my great regrets, wishes and will, and that you, as a parliamentary group, are provided with an exit strategy, and that this assembly is working without the right of anyone to exercise their views, to exercise the rights of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or any other right. The fact is that everything but a strict, clear and clear application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is simply, impossible, and that the session of the Assembly, as far as it goes. Your strategy is clear. You do not want to allow a single search to begin on the amendment and addition of the Decision on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As long as it is, and is, a legitimate and legal right, and within the framework of the application of the Rules of Procedure and does not endanger the rights of others, so long as, under Article 27, you are allowed to do so. The moment you do, first and foremost, damage to yourself, and then during the session in general, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be strictly and clearly applied. I hope I have made it clear to you everything that is unclear in the application of the Rules of Procedure, as I know you have participated in the arrangements on how the Rules of Procedure should be applied. In one case, I fully agree with you, there should be no agreement on the application of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure should be strictly applied. What I want to happen to us, when we bring in a new Rules of Procedure, is that the regulations contained in the members of the Rules of Procedure, which I hope we will adopt together, enable both agreement and co-operation between the ruling majority, whoever the ruling majority, and the opposition, whoever the opposition is. (For the entire time of speech, the chairman of Gordana Komic, the MPs of the SRS applaud. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to make a statement on the remarks tabled by MP Dragan Todorovic of the National Assembly in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14376	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I am advertising the violation of Article 103(1) - the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Since I know that you usually say that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, at the same time I ask you to set a vote in the voting day. By the good taste, as I understand the President of the Assembly, it is also necessary to explain what I have claimed, so I will try to do so. Previously, just one brief note. I believe that Article 103, which I am now advertising, you will, of course, say - no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, is not a member that is more important than all the other members. In my opinion, there is no compromise of Article 104 and, when it comes to the violation of it, I consider it this way – if, say, the amendment, or in principle of a particular problem, e.g. corruption in health, someone starts talking about applying the Trade Agreement with the EU and the damage to our peasants, I could understand that it is an infringement of Article 103. However, let me now say why I believe there is a breach of Article 103 in the first position. It's about abolishing freedom of speech to opposition MPs. For what? Because they are not the same arches that apply to the MPs of the people. I'll give you a few examples. A moment ago, the president of the ZES Parliament Club came to the speakers without a call; there was no call, I followed closely. He writes in the Rules of Procedure – no one can approach unless he is invited. Okay, that's a little thing and I don't really blame it, but I'm telling you how different arches apply to different people. It is indisputable that Mr Tomislav Nikolic did what he did, that the whole hall saw it, but the presidents don't see... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14377	The National MP, it was clearly stated that there could be no basis for the interpretation and violation of the Rules of Procedure of the sentence she gave or did not give to the President of the National Assembly. Please take me seriously when I say that the application of the Rules of Procedure will be strict. It is our mutual desire and the abuse of the right to the word will not be tolerated. Thank you. Please return to your seat and do not count on enrollment for a word that is right under Article 100 – or you have noticed a breach of procedure, so you report, or there is no injury to the procedure. There is no enrolment, nor is there any basis in the Rules of Procedure for any enrolment, because you believe that there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure the day before yesterday or any other day. People's MP Elena Christmas-Talian wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14378	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104, destroyed the dignity of the National Assembly, and I feel that my dignity as a National MP has been injured as well. I ask that in Parliament's voting day...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14379	The People's MP Zoran Bortic, after him, has the word, MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14380	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, esteemed fellow MPs, as the composition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia represents a democratic expression of the will of citizens, achieved in the elections, and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly represents a democratic balance of that will, which ensures that the National Assembly, as the most representative body, performs its role in accordance with national will. This, in fact, means that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly represents the highest protection of the national will and defines the relationship between the minority and the majority achieved in the elections. If democracy is understood as a procedure, and it is indeed, then the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly must ensure that through the democratic procedure, clear rights of the assembly majority are provided to realise the programme for which the citizens have been entrusted, but also the right of the assembly minority to criticise the programme and to propose solutions that will make it acceptable for all citizens of Serbia. Neither side of the Assembly nor the opposition nor the ruling majority should ignore that fact and must allow the will of the citizens they represent to be exhausted in the unproductive debates leading to the blockade of the country's highest representative body. Unfortunately, the history of modern parliamentaryism in the Republic of Serbia shows that, from 1990 to today, this balance between the majority and the minority in the Assembly has very rarely been put in place in the right way, for which responsibility is borne by both parliamentary sides, and by the majority, and minorities. Let me illustrate this through a few examples. The first Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, when the SPS had 195 MPs, i.e. almost 3/4 of the majority, adopted a Rules of Procedure on the work that gave to Members and MPs almost unlimited rights to discuss issues not only on the agenda, but also on those which the MPs considered relevant. In the current assembly, there are MPs who were MPs of the first call and who can testify to what democratic capacity the Rules of Procedure then had and what opportunities the opposition had to criticise the proposals represented by the parliamentary majority. Unfortunately, the opposition then did not understand the role of Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly, leading to its changes. Since then, to this day, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly have been changed many times and always at the expense of democracy and procedure. This was happening, to a large extent, because the ruling majority were very often without hearing about the opposition's ideas and initiatives, so the mechanical majorisation devised the work of the opposition, and, on the other hand, the opposition minorities had no ear for the citizens' will in the elections that defined their opposition position. Both the Rules of Procedure were used not as a rule of democratic procedure, but as a means of achieving the narrow political objectives. That is, unfortunately, to this day. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that democracy in our country has passed the stages of abuse and political outwitting between the majority and the minority and that we all have to take responsibility for the citizens who voted for us, regardless of which political group they belong. In that sense, we need such a Rules of Procedure that we will allow the opposition to express its political views and to criticise any move by the ruling majority. We must also ensure that the opposition accepts the fact that the elections did not give citizens confidence and that it is obliged to allow the ruling majority to be effective and to pass laws. In other words, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly must determine exactly what can be discussed at the meeting of the Assembly. In my opinion, there can only be debated questions that are on the agenda of specific sessions. If we all stick to such a session approach, then the ruling majority will be able to be effective, and the opposition will have plenty of time to criticise the proposed solutions. Everything else will lead to the blockade of the National Assembly and the collapse of this most significant institution in our country. In doing so, we must not forget that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are only a democratic tool that provides for the effective function of this institution, not the means that the opposition will use to achieve its political objectives and to bring Parliament down. Finally, I would like to point out that the SPS-JS Group will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14381	The word is Mr Miroslav Markicevic. He's not in the O.R. The word is Jovan Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14382	The respected chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, what is important for each parliament, especially for the Serbian Parliament at the moment, is to provide two important functions, which are efficiency and quality of work. If we're talking about efficiency, there are two things that are very important. It is one thing for parliament to adopt as many quality laws as possible, especially in this time when we want to bring domestic legislation into line with EU legislation, and that means, on the other hand, giving full support to this high house through legislative activities, the accession process to the European Union. What is also important for parliament is that it is a rational waste of time and resources, especially in this crisis that affects our country, it is important that we waste our time and resources rationally. On the other hand, parliament should also ensure quality. Parliament's quality means that every MP, regardless of which parliamentary group he belongs, only by constructive and reasoned discussion that he contributes to the quality of the legal solutions we adopt being as good as possible. The amendments need to improve the solutions that come from the government, because the interest of all is to pass laws that are in agreement with the European Union, EU legislation, and that, on the other hand, they can be applied. Parliament also has an important function of control of the executive authority, control of resolution ministries, public services, and all of this in the function of building institutions and the way these institutions spend funds, i.e. the obligations of citizens of Serbia. What is important in Parliament is the address of the MPs to each other. I'm talking about trust in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia right now, the trust of the citizens of Serbia, which is the lowest since the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia exists, and we've all contributed slightly to it, someone less and more. It is important, indeed, that we do everything in the coming period, and that is the task of all the MPs, regardless of whether they belong to the opposition or to the position, to change the picture of this parliament, which means to build an institution that will be respected by Serbian citizens. In order to ensure these two important things, i.e. to improve the efficiency and quality of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, some members in the current Rules of Procedure need to be changed, arranged and clarified, so that the abuses that have been, I must admit, in the last few days and before that, would be reduced to as little scope as possible and that both the chairman and all of us would be much easier. If you look at the amendments and additions of this Rules of Procedure, you have eight members, of which six members are important, two members are only accompanying. These changes should be seen as a transitional solution, which is necessary for a more efficient and quality work of the National Assembly, and a complete arrangement of the work of the National Assembly should be defined by a new Rules of Procedure, together with the Law on the National Assembly. I want to say a few things about these changes. The first member refers to a change in article 100, which has been used many times in the speeches of MPs in this House. Nothing's been denied that much. It simply just explains the procedure when the MP can talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and it seems to me that this, in a more clear way, gives the President the right not to allow the blockades, as we have often had in this House. The second article discusses the duration of the discussion in particular. What is important is that everyone who has submitted the amendment has the right to explain the amendment, following new amendments to the Rules of Procedure; however, that time is a little short and takes two minutes. Others can apply for discussion, except this discussion can't last indefinitely. In particular, you can also talk for five hours. Chiefs or authorized promoters also have extra time in particular, which is 15 minutes. This means that they can comment on certain amendments submitted by MPs. I say, it's important that time is limited to five hours, because it's often that these discussions go on indefinitely, that they repeat themselves. Just remember, when we adopted the Law on Fundamental Court Areas, how much time we lost, Malten, on the same explanation. Article 4 amends Article 199, and there are two important things. One is that, according to the amendments and additions of this Rules of Procedure, the presence of members of the government on the last Thursday of the month, between 16 and 19 hours, and at that time the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and all members of the Government who are called on to answer the questions asked. The possibility is also given, and what is important is the agreement between the position and the opposition, that and when the extraordinary meetings of the Assembly, which means, on a proposal from the MPs, the members of the government can answer the questions asked. It is important to build trust between the opposition and the position. That is important, because it is the essence of Parliament's exercise of control over the executive government. In the end, what has also often happened, they famous art. 225 and 226. Nothing is denied to the MPs, only one thing is arranged – the parliamentary question must be in writing. So you can't use what you've been through so often, which is that you have a parliamentary question and that you talk about parliamentary issues all day long. So here it is arranged that the parliamentary issue must be defined in written form, that is one and the other, that the political life of Serbia and the activities of each political party are an important topic, a topic of vital importance for the citizens of Serbia. The rules of procedure also define that leaders or authorised representatives of political parties, i.e. groups in Parliament, can, at one address, take five minutes, Tuesday and Thursday, at sessions, in some ways launch topics that are important for the lives of Serbian citizens and which are current at some point, regardless of whether they are from the areas of economy, rights, politics or something else. Looking at everything that has been happening in this House these days, wanting this parliament not to be at the lowest levels of popularity since it exists, and I am sure that every MP wants us to build an institution that will be proud of both this state and all of us sitting here, these amendments of the Rules of Procedure are going in that direction and the G17 Group of MPs plus will support the amendments and additions of this Rules of Procedure in the voting day. I'm asking the other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14383	Thank you. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14384	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to talk about the amendments to the Rules of Procedure that you have proposed, but before that, I would like to express my condolences to the families of the people I knew, who had a serious car accident and a terrible tragedy last night. Every single one of us seems to be able to do it in these difficult times. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I have witnessed all amendments to all the Rules of Procedures, since the introduction of the first multilateral system and the first multiparty assembly, to this day. The most liberal Rules of Procedure, the one that was best done, was the so-called so-called "Liberal Rules of Procedure". dictator Slobodan Milosevic, a 1991 Rules of Procedure, in 1992, where there was no limit to the time for discussion and the speaker was not forced to talk about the topic on the agenda. It is not misused, except in the event of the state of the news publishing company "Politika", when the debate lasted three days and ended in the end, the agenda point ended. Since then, to this day, every government has tightened the Rules of Procedure a little bit, reducing parliamentary rights, always, of course, at the heart of the opposition, because there is some kind of unwritten rule that MPs of the ruling majority do not report for the word not to irritate the opposition. After all, it is a little bit of an impression that everything has already been resolved, that people who are far more significant than they are in their parties have proposed it and what MPs are now to interfere, to submit amendments or to object to their president. It was simply considered that there were unwritten rules for the conduct of MPs of the ruling coalition, and they were never concerned by the Rules of Procedure. If we analyse what you are proposing now, for which the Parliamentary Group "Forward, Serbia" cannot vote, and it will not, everyone will find the reasons that motivate it to be in favour or against. By bad conduct of the National Assembly session in this assembly, by allowing things to happen here, by saying, by reaching some critical level of human relations, dignity, democracy, you came in a position to happen for the first time something that has never happened in the Assembly, even at a time when DOS was, I think, more militant than the parliamentary group that is causing problems here, at least on the street, has been more harshly exhibiting its dissatisfaction with power, but it has never been poured into the sessions of the National Assembly, or the Federal Assembly of the SRJ. There's a key and it's boiling. And now I am convinced that this Rules of Procedure, as it is, is quite a good basis for the MPs of the opposition and the authorities to be satisfied and that the leadership of the Assembly is satisfied with the fact that in a rather solid rhythm it brings the laws that Serbia needs, which it needs, well, perhaps, and necessary. But it came out. And now the parliamentary work on the laws has against it 57 MPs who do not allow it. There are at least three kinds of meetings of the National Assembly here. One that led to all of this, and that's what the president of the National Assembly does, which keeps leaving the impression that he has compassion for those who do this, that she's even convinced and that they're right. In addition, the SPS representative voted today, in the opinion of his party and his personal one, that our three MPs do not have the right to mandate. Every gesture is trying to show that she has nothing to do with it – there is another majority, there are other attitudes, if she were to wonder, it would be different, we would all live here in peace and harmony, and you, gentlemen who are now obstructing, would have a wide field of action. Another way to lead is to do what the current chairman does, who does not resent anyone, who is trying only to look at a time that runs by and that is his only criterion, and does not engage in whether what the MP is saying is in accordance with his rights and obligations or not. The third way is what Mrs Gordana Comic does, which only defends this Rules of Procedure and thus comes into conflict with MPs who are not satisfied with it. You want to mutilate that time now. Are you sure the Assembly will function if you do? Are you sure whoever's out of two minutes will keep talking for another 15 or 30 seconds, then be warned twice, take away his word and be turned off, are you sure that's gonna calm the situation? You have 57 MPs who are going to be obstructing this Rules of Procedure right now. Do you see that there is no topic that is not the basis for the blocking of Parliament? Perhaps you thought that meeting some demands would eliminate the blockade. No, I know he won't. I know how it goes, I know the whole structure and personality, and I know the behavior. There will always be a burning problem. There's gonna be some kind of focal point where there's gonna be an obstruction. I don't think it's necessary to irritate and those who know that this is not a good situation and don't see in you the full culprits, share that guilt with you together, or share your guilt with others. I think we just need to apply the Rules of Procedure. Someone here said it wasn't a problem for the laws to be passed, but for those who were brought to be respected. So, one of the Rules of Procedures, which is not respected now, you're drastically changing so that it's at the expense of those who don't respect it, convinced that now they're going to have this new one, which is worse for them than the previous one, to respect it. He won't. There are provisions that could go beyond, for example, art. 225 and 226. That was really pointless, but I can see that the Headship of the Assembly began to apply it before the change was made. Someone seems to have agreed with it, but now it's not, so you have some kind of dispute. As far as we're concerned, we're being pushed away from this pay phone with your behavior, because we know that if one of our MPs comes forward, there will be 40 replicas to that, 40 injuries to the Rules of Procedure, they'll start insulting us. You simply do not allow us here to express our policy, our ideology, our programme, but rather wait for some new relations in the Assembly. That's what it shows by being on the level we were at when we formed the party. We don't fall, we don't grow, citizens expect us to hear what we want to do. If this is the only place, and I can see that there are some who are on national television every night, or on B92, where our MPs can show up, sometimes it suits you that our MPs can't make it to the pay phone, because if they get there, they're going to have a reaction, they're going to be gunned down, and they're going to make a mistake themselves, and they're not going to be able to go any further. Why are you changing the Rules of Procedure? If we have resolved the issue of these mandates on the Administrative Board, although we should finally regulate it by law, not to ask ourselves whether he has given it up personally or not, whether or not he has signed it, whether he has a date or not, if you are having meetings so that this assembly works, and not that we are fighting on them, and that everyone is taking out the wardrobe he puts on that day, does not amount to attitudes and ideas, but is on the market in the dressing room, if we are really working on the laws, no one will mind such a business. You have a problem that you have to solve for yourself, a problem whether the Assembly will work or not. It won't work, Mr. Konstantinovic, if you cut the Rules of Procedure, it won't work better if you give the lion another piece of meat. You have to adopt the principle. If the principle is that each of us understands what he can do, and I'm subject to it sometimes, the Rules of Procedure and is prepared to receive punishment, if each of you is willing to receive punishment and if you're willing to apply punishment to all those who deserve it, the Assembly will work. Who's going to blame you? You've earned yourself a good position to lead the congregation. You have defiled the congregation of the people. We're almost all part of it. We're on the lowest scale right now. After all, at the Council celebration, which I did not attend, because it was just you, so it's unnatural for us to leave the opposition, the president of the state, the Prime Minister, the representatives of the Church, all got some applause, no whistle, only when they said, "we welcome the present MPs," no applause was heard. Your MPs, they didn't applaud you. They didn't whistle, but they didn't applaud. That's our reputation, our reputation with ours, yours with yours, ours with yours, yours with ours. We no longer have a reputation among the people who vote for us. We must restore that reputation. I am ready for us from the "Forward, Serbia" Group to be fully involved in this. Here, keep quiet, keep quiet, as long as it's natural, while it's normal, and then, of course, we're people of flesh and blood. How much longer do we have to keep quiet for the Assembly to function normally? Ask these guys if it's enough for them three months so the "progressors" don't come out for a pay phone at all. We're ready, we're not going out for three months, six months, just so the Assembly works normally. If we're the problem, we're not answering for a word, but never, ever, when I came out here to say something serious, I wasn't talking about the opposition, I was talking about the government. I think we should create this new block that will compete with you. The way we are now, we might not be able to beat you this year, and I'm surprised you're not calling the election. Slowly, we will settle our relations, we will be unique against you, and then surely there will be a shift of power, and let it come. Now we are safe when you are in power, you will be safe when we are in power, only to make Serbia better. Meko Omerovic knows, Serbia cannot be better without changing its power. You're looking at your own same ministers for nine years from these benches. Do you think that's good? Do you think they resisted bribery, corruption, crime? Do you think they don't have their connections all over the world? You've seen, one of them hasn't been a minister in a year, and 15m euros are estimated to have been acquired in a year, because he used what he was minister or what he was going to be again. If he were replaced by someone from the opposition and found out what he was doing, and he also knows that he's going to be replaced by someone from the opposition, we'd have a clean political scene very quickly and we wouldn't have been warned from Europe if we hadn't fought against bribery, corruption and crime. It all comes from here. I know you're not a part of it, you're a people's messenger, no one asks you for anything. Maybe, some board of directors, maybe some of them are members of a board of directors, and that's impossible because of conflicts of interest. You're not that either. Look, the party president, who is Deputy Prime Minister and says he has 1,000 euros in salary, like we do, and has someone from his own party who is the director and has 20,000 euros in salary per month. Is that possible? Do you trust this man? Why doesn't he come to be party president and this one has 20,000 euros a month's salary? I don't trust him to live 1,000 euros. If a member of his party, as director of a public firm, has 20,000 euros, from 10,000 to 20,000, and you stopped chasing them because they said they'd discover some of yours, when to be a good atmosphere? Every day, you take the article out of the papers and, here, '57 votes for obstruction'; you have newspapers that are attached to you, but they can't hide. Sometimes you Democrats let go of something about 'yellows', sometimes something about your own, sometimes 'yellow' about you, and that's how they argue, just this Pups nobody touches, they live nice, they cheat the people, and now they can. Please think carefully. I know about this point, I've talked to some of you and suggested you take off the dot, and you said - impossible, how do we take off the point that started? Think carefully. There are some amendments that we have submitted, in order to just show that we can do a little better, and believe me, and to adopt the amendments, we won't vote, and that's not good, because that's some solution between what we have right now and what you're proposing. Why should we vote to make it worse than it is now? We can't give you votes to tighten the conditions, it's not our fault. Maybe it's our fault we're alive, but there's nothing we can do about it now. That's God's decision. So think carefully about whether you could reach agreements, and if you're not, do as you think, God help you, what kind of obstruction you can expect only for this. I know it's gonna be scary. Then Mrs. Comic can't last 24 hours a day to work here, and you can see for yourself. She's the only last Mojican here. It's not fair of the rest of her colleagues who let her go that she's the only one who comes out in a bad way, because she's strictly defending the Rules of Procedure. Maybe her arguments are too long, but I've known her for years, so Gordana Komic explains, he was angry with you, he wasn't angry, she's been banging you for five minutes, so you do whatever you want. Please consider, there is a normal atmosphere that can be created here, and this is where individuals who are ruining the atmosphere have been isolated as one capsule that bothers us here. They have the right as long as they use business rights, and when they don't use them, of course they expect to be punished themselves. They feel too powerful and strong and challenge you, they go along the edge, and you don't react. Now, what you've got in mind, you're going to bake it, and it's called bread. Once again, we've given amendments. Don't mind them, we'll use it to discuss it a little bit and we won't vote for the Rules of Procedure, even if you accept the amendments, and of course we won't vote even if the amendment to the Rules of Procedure remains as you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14385	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14386	The Honorable President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. However, when we talk about Parliament's work, it is necessary to always highlight its essential role, which is a legislative role, i.e. it is always necessary to point out that parliament is the highest body of the legislative authority. According to the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club, three are important tasks, three are priorities when it comes to the work of our republic's parliament. The first task is to pass the laws that are necessary, given that we have a new constitution, that is, to adapt the existing laws to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The second task is to harmonise our legislation with EU legislation, and that is something that is necessary, something that is inevitable, if we want to continue the path of European integration. I would like to remind you that one of the five principles and principles based on which a parliamentary majority has been formed and established in Serbia and the coalition government in Serbia is, right now, the principle of European integration. The third task is to pass laws as measures that would encourage the economic policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is currently running. So these would be the basic priorities, objectives and tasks of the Republic of Parliament, in our opinion, at this point. However, it is evident that, when it comes to the work of the Republic Parliament, when it comes to assembly sessions, we are in part with what Parliament needs, in fact, to do when it comes to legislative activities, when it comes to continuing reforms, when we talk about economic and social issues, and, of course, the way of European integration. One of the main reasons for the situation in which we are currently in place is, of course, the broad interpretation of the existing Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament, and, most of all, the Assembly speaker is used to report in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the solution is to draw up and adopt a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. It is good that there is a working group within the Republic of Parliament which is involved in drawing up a new draft Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. At this point, because of everything that has been happening within this working group and because of everything we know that it has actually been done within this working group, it takes a lot of will, a lot more time, a lot of dialogue, a lot of conversation, a lot of first law on the National Assembly, and then the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. For this reason, at this point, we need something that could be defined as a transitional solution, for the sake of Parliament's more efficient work, and these are the amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. As counterpart Petronijevic, as an authorised representative, has already said of the assembly speaker, the SPS-JS parliamentary group supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. We really want to support the final goal that is intended to achieve these changes, which is the more effective work of Parliament. We believe that the proposed changes will not violate the principle of public work and the equal participation of all relevant political actors on Serbia's political scene in the work of the Republic of Parliament. So we are convinced that the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure will not compromise the rights of the opposition, but neither will the public. Of course it is necessary, and in this we seem, to me, all in this House agreeable, to find a measure, on the one hand, between the more efficient work of Parliament and, on the other hand, respect for the right of the opposition and the position when it comes to the work of the Republic Parliament itself. It is necessary to find a solution that the majority make decisions within the scheduled deadlines on proposals and, of course, on the valid arguments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that the opposition, on the other hand, has the possibility of making suggestions, criticisms, to speak in favour of why some legal acts, or legal proposals, should be adopted and some do not. We believe that there are several essential newspapers that will, of course, influence if they are adopted, and we are convinced that the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure on the work proposed will be adopted. So there are several essential newspapers that will improve work in Parliament. First of all, if the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament are adopted and amended, MPs will have to speak specifically about the agenda of the current assembly session. The heads of parliament's groups, as already said for this speaker, will be able to ask for explanations and explanations every Tuesday and Thursday, over a period of 10 to 11 hours. On the last Thursday of the month, and this has already been discussed with the assembly speaker, prime minister and members of the government, therefore, ministers, will have to come to the Republic Parliament and answer the questions of MPs. We view this positively and believe that it is extremely positive to introduce this practice in the work of the Republic of Parliament, therefore, the kind of direct communication between Parliament, on the one hand, and the Government, on the other hand, and this way, through the Republic of Parliament, can be controlled by the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It has already been said that it is time for the amendments to be discussed. So, the time for discussions on amendments is, by adopting these amendments and by supplementing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament, the exact same as the time for discussion in principle, evenly distributed to all parliamentary groups, the same number of MPs that MPs have. Within another 15 minutes, and that has already been said, the heads of parliament's groups will be able to give their views on the proposed amendments. Of course, there's that extra time for the amendment applicant. The next newspaper, which we are looking at, is also extremely positive, that calling for alleged infringements will not last for hours, as it has been during the past period and over the past months. What we particularly want to point out is that by adopting the proposed amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament, the form of dialogue in Parliament is improving. So, the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament, certainly, no harm, no disturbance, do not stifle the democratic confrontation of Parliament's opinion. Both the position and the opposition will be able to perform their role, always having to bear in mind that every MP, and the position and opposition, is a great responsibility to the citizens of Serbia. It is clear that in the work of the new Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament, clear and unequivocal rules need to be laid down in order to make Parliament's work democratic and efficient. Finally, I would like to point out once again, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will support the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Republic of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-13-0.u14387	Thank you very much. Is there any other reported messengers who would like a word? (No) Whether the Presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, or anyone who has not yet exercised their right under Article 93, want to speak. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a unique main search. I would like to inform you that in the day of the vote, the National Assembly will decide on amendments to the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on a proposal for a decision in general. Since we have conducted a single search on the sole agenda of this session, on the basis of Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday, February 17th, the beginning at 10 a.m. as a voting day. Thank you for your cooperation, and I'll see you Tuesday, just before 10:00. Thank you.
