ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32528	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 131 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall right now, i.e. there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in a member with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32529	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the DSS Group has on several occasions in front of this assembly and has warned you all of the competent authorities about the accidental spending of the budget, i.e. the funds of the citizens of Serbia. We claimed that in the Ministry of Environment, during the time Mr. Sasa Dragin was there, about elevenm euros went to action to suppress ticks, mosquitoes and ambrosia and that no public procurement procedure was conducted at all. Another fact was that the ministry was not in charge of the job at all. On many occasions we received really strange and funny answers from that ministry. One of those answers was that they were counting ticks, so that's why the money went away. The second answer was that they were calling for a law that was never passed; neither was it brought now nor could it ever be brought. However, we insisted on this story knowing that it should finally be revealed who was guilty and what was happening in that ministry. The report by the State Auditing Institution on the 2008 budget showed a number of irregularities in spending budget money, i.e. the money of Serbian citizens, in many ministries. I have to say, the sample was random: fourteen ministries, three state administrations, and the Property Directorate. The state audit institution at the Ministry of Environment has determined exactly what the DSS Parliamentary Group claimed. Powerful funds (about 11,000,000 euros) have been spent; no public procurement procedure has ever been called for. What she also found through this report is the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, in which Minister Sasa Dragin is established, did not form an internal control institution, which had to be legally formed. The Democratic Party of Serbia will no longer ask this ministry, nor will this minister, because it has received the answer from those in charge of it, from the State Auditing Institution. Today's question is being addressed to Police Minister Dacic, Police Director Mr Veljovic and yesterday the elected state prosecutor – what will he do about the report by the State Auditing Institution concerning this particular ministry, the former Ministry of Environmental Protection, when Mr Sasa Dragin was there as minister? We hope that one of the civil servants, one of the officials, who is certainly not responsible for this theft and abuse, for which the law lays down a minimum sentence of 12 years in prison. We hope, too, that there is no untouchable in this country, that whoever did this must bear certain responsibility. I warn this occasion and our colleagues and the public of Serbia that the DSS will closely monitor what will happen in the near future with this story, because we really believe that the end has finally come to all thieves and that someone must answer for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32530	Thank you. National MP Mr Miroslav Markicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32531	How about a little quiet, so I can concentrate? (President: Members of the Parliament, I pray for silence to hear Mr Markicevic. ) Dear Presidents, honourable fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, ask for one notice from you, the President, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice, from all the competent prosecutors and other state bodies. What's this about? We are witnessing that in these transition times, some say, in times of crisis and moral decline, the lack of citizens are being manipulated by the poverty of citizens. The fact that some are exploiting, which are not punished, let it go to the soul of all of us and the state authorities, but when it comes to the Public Service, which is paid by all Serbian citizens, we are obliged to raise our word and to represent the citizens we represent here in the right way. What's this about? In this country, gambling and gambling are legalized, like it or not, and there are clear rules for all citizens, who unfortunately voluntarily participate in various games of happiness, which are common manipulation of citizens, their lack and their unrealistic desire to earn money, to feed their family and themselves. If organisations such as the Serbia lottery, which is under state control, if they do private commercial televisions that fit the legal norms or bookshops that comply with the legal standards, it can be questionable to me from my personal point of view, from my morale's point of view or something like that, but if the Public Service does so, without clear game rules, then it's a sign of alarm and an alarm that we'd all have to raise here. All citizens who watch this transmission and all fellow MPs know what this is about. Every night, public service reportedly splits one car at a time. All citizens who call... We don't know how many citizens turn those numbers that public service... Public service does not have a school program, and it deals with the cube, on the First Program, people's terms – the cube. No one alive knows how many citizens turn that phone number. At the New Serbia Parliament Club, we received hundreds of calls from citizens to which they automatically respond – not a unique offer. Therefore, it is the lowest drop in morale, as far as public information is concerned, when public service, which pays for all citizens, repeats, which does not have a school programme, which should be one of its basic functions, which is why citizens and pay for the TV programme are involved in the cube. Even if it were legal, there are no rules of the game, as the people say, there is no idea how many citizens have phoned, how many citizens have paid 50 dinars, we do not know what the income is and what that income is for, and who is involved in it at all, who is behind this gambling game at the Public Service, which is a disgrace and a disgrace. I asked around, as far as public services are concerned in the surrounding countries and Europe, there is no public service dealing with this type of "activities". So I asked all these people, who are more generally, morally, responsible for their functions, and the main question is for the director of Mr. Aleksandr Tijanic's Public Service. If Mr. Tijanic responds sooner, there will be a lot of rumors about what is going on at the Public Service, what are the salaries, whether some people are privileged and whether thousands of people who work there work for poor wages, but have to be quiet about something. So, why did I ask you, President, I owe you, I have a moral obligation, I ask you a question? Because you've been making some agreements with Mr. Tijanic about the transfer of these sessions at the beginning of the autumn session, I welcome it, so I understand that you have some kind of correct relationship with him, so you could, on behalf of all MPs... And, I believe, on behalf of the vast majority of citizens who would like to know the answer to this question I asked – is it moral for the public service to do such things? If there is no morale, let the answers publicly under what financial conditions, how many citizens on a daily basis, what are the revenues from this gambling game that we watch every night and where is that money going, since Serbian citizens are paying for a TV subscription? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32532	Mr Markicevic, by asking me a question, convinced that I am in good relations with the Public Service, I will simply not comment. Parliament's obligation was to make certain forms of co-operation with the Public Service through the task force we formed. The way I see it, it's neither an objection nor a question. The question is about editorial policy, programming and commercial moments and, in this respect, your question will be fully forwarded to the Public Service. Mr. Jovan Damjanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the right to ask a question in writing at this stage and at this part of the session. Mr. Free Maraš has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32533	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that one of my colleagues before me is the principle of the subject, and this topic is the report of the State Auditing Institution, which has upset the public over the past few days. We are aware of the way this State Auditing Institution was created, what kind of labor struggles it was to form, to choose people who would make up the State Auditing Institution; we know that it was a problem to find them an adequate space, and when a recruitment competition was called within the State Auditing Institution, a small number of people who meet the conditions appeared in the competition. You received a report from the State Auditing Institution on Friday. I can commend you for hanging him immediately on the National Assembly site, and that's very good. But what's not good, that's what's in the report. With only four auditors, Mr. Sretenovic introduced us, 14 ministries were controlled, the Treasury Administration, the Public Procurement Administration, the Department of Joint Affairs and the Property Directorate and a number of irregularities were identified. The most interesting thing is that there are irregularities that are, it is difficult to say, banal, but irregularities that point to the essence of the ruling majority – means that someone has no cover for overtime, that public procurement is not done in accordance with the law. I think the highlight of everything that's been set out in the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development. So, the most massive ministry, which took three sides to write down all the activities of the ministry, how systematiced jobs are there, this ministry employs people for the places that are envisaged and filled in under the ministry's contract of work. We have always pointed out that, for example, the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development has an incredibly large number of employees, that it has a terrible number of assistants, advisers, etc., and in this massive ministry a situation arises that contracts are being concluded for places that are systematized. Then we have the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. That's where the irregularities were found. What's so controversial about that? The dispute is what Assistant Minister Ljajic replied – that, if there was a failure, there is a rational explanation. Anyone who deals with the economy, anyone who knows what an audit is knows that it's extremely unserious and pointless to give that answer. So there's no rational explanation for breaking the law. Then, we have the public enterprises NIS and EPS, which have not returned loans from the budget. Madam President, we expect the following from you: to ask the Government for a final account for 2008, that we have, in addition, a report from the State Auditing Institution, that these two points be united and that we have a special session, before the 2010 budget session, for the simple reason that, at the very least, every time we have been correct when the budget is being discussed, we have been trying to point out that it is necessary to save. Then when the austerity measures were implemented, we supported them, but this irresponsible behaviour of the people who run the state means, members of the government (not the ministers themselves, but their ministries for which they are responsible and responsible), it is ultimately irresponsible, pointless and requires a special session. I hope that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you will schedule a meeting of the heads of Parliament, to agree. I think it's a question that all of us in the congregation should be interested in, not just the opposition. If necessary, we will gather together from the opposition, gather enough numbers, but I see that you agree that these two topics must be held at a special session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32534	Actually, it wasn't a question, it was your suggestion. In any case, I will follow the Rules of Procedure, with regard to the report of the audit institution. The procedure is that the committees in charge will plead. Of course, it will be a topic and a meeting with the heads of Parliament's groups and all the initiatives we agree on at that meeting I will focus on realising. Mr. Vlajko Senic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32535	Dear President, the Honorable Chairman, since we have now introduced practice that we can give suggestions, I would like to make a suggestion as a member of the Finance Committee. I hope that we will have a session of the Finance Committee very soon to discuss the report of the State Auditing Institution. I hope we will have the pleasure of attending the Finance Committee for the first time and the representatives of the opposition. I think it's the right way. Once again, I would like to express my support to the State Auditing Institution, but I believe that such serious issues must be considered in the right way, not to be a question of any political marketing. As a member of the Finance Committee, I express my dissatisfaction with the fact that I heard about the State Auditing Institution report first in the media and then received it as a member of the Finance Committee. I believe that the order of things must be exactly the opposite – that we have all, including MPs, and above all the members of the Committee on Finance, the report of the State Auditing Institution, that at an open session, where representatives of the relevant ministries can attend, we give answers to all questions. Because now we've completely lost the flow, and we're not talking about the specific things in the report anymore, we're talking about certain interpretations. The report came to the Assembly and as a member of the Committee, I will launch an initiative to hold a session of the Committee as soon as possible, to invite all representatives of the opposition parties and members of the Committee, and those who are not, and to give the right answer to this question and to all the issues raised in the report. I hope that this will be a practice in the future and that in the coming years we will have such a way of analysing the report and its presentation to the public, because everything else represents something that is not good and that brings a certain amount of populism into the matter which is serious and which should be the ultimate word of how the finances of a country were being conducted. I would also like to say what no one has said, is on page 3 of the State Auditing Institution report, which is that much is said about details, and that members of the State Auditing Institution have fenced themselves and did not want to give a final opinion on what the 2008 final budget account looks like for various reasons, lack of information, methodologies etc. So, it's a good thing the report was made for the first time, but it's not a good thing that the debate on him is going this way, and that we, as a resolution board, haven't had a chance to get to the bottom of it yet. I hope we get that chance in the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32536	Again there was no question; the finding, in fact, and the suggestion contained in the Rules of Procedure. You have potentiated the elements of the Rules of Procedure. It is also the obligation of the Financial Committee to consider the report of the audit institution. How to deliver an independent body document is a matter of decision by those bodies. In any case, a step towards the control function is starting to take place and that, I agree with you, Mr. Senic, needs to be welcomed. Mr. Maras Free. I don't know what the basis is. (Free Maraš, from the post: as a member of the Finance Committee.) You can't now. Replica? He didn't mention you, you have no right. National MP Dragan Stevanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32537	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to refer on behalf of the SRS a question to the Government and to the competent state authorities. The question concerns the following: we held meetings on several occasions, using the presence of ministers within whose resources are intelligence and security services, tried to draw the state's attention to a problem, a kind of extremism that began to appear intensively in the area of the Pcinj County. I could talk today about shiptar extremism, which also happened on the same day on flag day. I'll take the opportunity to ask a question about another extremism that began to appear intensively in the territory of the Bosilegrad municipality. You know that in the territory of the Bosilegrad municipality there is a Bulgarian national minority, dominant. A rally took place in the municipality on November 27th in the city centre, in front of the IRS. 150 citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and only a dozen or fifteen citizens of Bosilegrad attended the rally. Bulgarian citizens came organized with three buses and a small van. Otherwise, I'll remind you, November 27th is the day when the Nov Agreement was signed 90 years ago, an agreement whereby Bulgaria essentially paid Serbia's reparation for all the accidents and crimes committed in those wars at the time. The Bulgarian gentlemen hosted Mr. Ratko Stojanchev. He is the president of the Democratic Union of Bulgarians. Otherwise, it is the former DSBJ party in Serbia, now the Democratic Union of Bulgarians. The rally was held, as I said, at 6:00 p.m. downtown. Those who came from Bulgaria were led by a certain Mr. Hlebarov. Mr. Hlebarov is an MP in the Bulgarian Parliament and a member of the political group "Ataka", which is certainly in Bulgaria's parliamentary parliament and which works there. Mr Hlebarov gave a speech in which, among other things, he said he would do everything to get the Bulgarian western provinces back to Bulgaria, and under those western Bulgarian provinces meant not only Western Bulgarian provinces related to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the territory of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Among other things, Mr. Hlebarov said that the western Bulgarian provinces are the heart of Bulgaria. What authorities should listen to with a little more attention is the fact that there were transparencys at the rally or rally, among other things, in which it was written – 90 years under Serbian slavery, laws, murders, the assimilation of the Bulgarian people. If it wasn't for someone calling or alarming to light a light bulb above their head, I don't know what would be. All those who know the opportunities in southeastern Serbia know that the Bulgarian national community lives in extremely harmonious relations with Serbs. There is no argument that could be misused and used to speak in this way today in these areas and that someone is committing such a political abuse and an attempt to bring down good international relations between Serbs and Bulgarians in the Pcinj County, as well as in all other areas where the national community lives. The dominant attitude of the Bulgarian national community towards Serbia is the fact that in the past 25 years, out of 10,000 people who have been evicted from Bosilegrad, only fifteen have gone to Bulgaria, and nine thousand and something throughout Serbia. This gives us the right to open this up as a problem and force the state to react, not to allow political manipulation and abuse and collapse of the relations between Serbs and Bulgarians. My question, i.e. the question of the Serbian Radical Party, is it – is the rally reported, who allowed the rally to be held, and who provided logistical support for such a thing? What has the state done about all our issues regarding Bulgarian extremism in Serbia, and what will the Republic of Serbia and the competent state authorities do about the rally held on 27 November? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32538	Mr. Free Maras is advertising the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32539	Madam President, if, after my address, Mr Vlajko Senic, who is like I am a member of the Finance Committee, says that political populism and political marketing are the findings I have made regarding the State Auditing Institution and the hope that we will have a session, I do not see how you do not feel that it has been directed to me and that I have the right to reply. Indeed, Mr. Senic, I cannot understand one thing – populistism and political marketing, we know who deals with it; the only party, probably, in this assembly, which did not take care of it is the Liberal Democratic Party. If we had taken care of populistism and political marketing, we would now have 30%, but we have tried all the time to tell the citizens the truth. It is true, Mr. Senić, that the State Auditing Institution was born as in Radovana Third – 15 years old, Malten; then you do not give them adequate rooms; so people cannot be employed in the State Auditing Institution; four people have worked 14 ministries. You say you're satisfied with the report. Of course you're satisfied because for the first time we have a report from the State Auditing Institution, but you can't say that it's a pleasure that the State Auditing Institution itself said that it can't specifically refer to certain ministries, although I mentioned it, we heard from his mouth that Mr. Sretenovic mentioned. I really didn't intend to attack any of the ministries, but if someone says we have systematic jobs at the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, that people there are employed in these jobs and then contracts are made to work with people for the same jobs, then something's wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32540	Time. Thank you. Mr. Vlajko Senić, is now directly mentioned, but I would really ask that we do not transform this institution into something that is not the purpose of this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32541	Here, let me explain what I wanted to say. At no point did I mean your exposure, Mr. Marash. This isn't about populists asking questions. This is about the way the State Audit Institution report was presented. You, as a member of the Committee on Finance and a member of a party that is not populist, have relied on this method of presenting a report to the public of Serbia. I am telling you that as a member of the Committee on Finance, it is good that you come to the Committee's meetings, to invite representatives of all ministries and to discuss, professionally and responsibly, at that session everything that is written in the report of the State Auditing Institution. As far as populism is concerned, you're shooting at the wrong address. If you think that only the parties that have 30% or 35% of the populist in Serbia are, then you only have two such parties in parliament, and I would disagree with that fact. I would say that Serbian citizens have the right to know how their money is spent. I said and I'll repeat that I'm glad that the auditor first filed the report, but that in 2009, that it could have happened before. As for the rooms and these technical things, be assured that we certainly didn't make any kind of obstruction to do that job of ours. As far as members of the State Auditing Institution are concerned, we know well that in this round of elections the State Auditing Institution is far from being a non-partisan structure of people who need to do the job, but it doesn't matter, they got trust and we expect results from them and we give them support for it. But you rely on what the chief auditor said at the press conference, without having to get the public fully aware of his report. So, I invite you, and I'm sure you'll come to the meeting of the Finance Committee, to professionally discuss this report, not to discuss in the Assembly what the state auditor or anyone from that institution said at the press conference. It's not an approach that suits serious people, and that's why I'm glad you accepted that call and I can't wait to see you at the Finance Committee session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32542	It's obviously going to be a big interest in the Committee's activities, which makes me happy. Mr. Free Marash now has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32543	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Senić, I am pleased to agree on a number of things: one, that it is necessary to hold a session of the Committee on Finance; that it is necessary to hold a session of the National Assembly on which the report of the State Auditing Institution will be on the subject, and that it is necessary that the final account on the spending of budgets for 2008, as it is done on behalf of the citizens, is also seen in this assembly, i.e. that all MPs can read and present it to the public. Mr. Senic, I had no intention of entering the controversy with you, but you say you expect me to come and that the opposition will attend the meeting of the Finance Committee. Mr. Senic, I think it is extremely inappropriate for us to discuss here in the Assembly Hall what was the situation on the Finance Committee and who has not come many times. I think we can get past that, especially when it's a matter of this importance. I'm glad you're ready to discuss all this. Once again, I must say, I agree that the way the State Auditory Institution was elected in the Serbian Parliament in 2007 gives the impression that it was chosen by the parties proposing people. Of course the first composition can't be the most representative, but let's give them support. I agree with you, let us give them support, let us support the President of the Assembly to be bold enough and bold enough to bring it out, that is to say, that we have a session at which these two points will be held and to meet the citizens who are the most responsible in this country, who have taken over to run the executive power, with the funds that are in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32544	Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, but Mrs. Vojic-Markovic also reported. (Milica Vojić-Markovic, from the post: I reported to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? Then you have the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32545	Thank you, Madam President. Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I really didn't think there was a need to answer what Mr. Senic just said because the State Auditing Institution is an independent institution, independent and from the Assembly. I just wouldn't comment on what he's calling me for politics, or what I'm looking for. For two years, the DSS Group has been saying this. We think the public should be familiar, this is one way. The assembly is the only place where we can say it, and what he said shows that this parliamentary group understands democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32546	Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32547	My question is addressed, Madam President, to you. It reads this: when will you schedule a session of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at which point of the agenda will be to consider the 2008 Final Account Bill, for which it has now been delivered, means, in addition to that law, the State Auditing Institution report? Because of the importance of the topic and the public interest, why don't we interrupt for the fourth time the current session and this, this important one, with only one item of the agenda, where we can discuss the most important issue, which is how the public's money was spent? If that's the reason for this session, I'll explain how I understand the final bill. The examination of the final account, the remarks contained in the State Auditing Institution report should not only serve to fill the news columns, to justify one another, and the other to attack, but to include before considering the new 2010 budget principles and budgets for 2010 restrictions on such abuses of funds, which were apparent, cannot be repeated again. So I explain the urgency of the procedure for considering the final bill, which was otherwise delivered to the Assembly on July 6th of this year. I would take this opportunity to say and ask you personally – not only the State Auditing Institution's report, but all the questions that are in the jurisdiction of this home, your right and our obligation should be properly published here, discussed, discussed and discussed, and that it should not bother anyone, only in case of dissatisfaction with the results of a report, such as this report by the State Auditing Institution. We have repeatedly opposed the fact that, in this congregation, they are seen as being discussed and done with important things, and that the previous debate on them, the courts, is being given outside of this house. I will say that this even applies in the way the laws are explained; for example, the law on bankruptcy (I take it as an example because it was proposed by a minister from a party whose Mr. Senic is a member), with an explanation of over 30 pages on the government website, delivered to NGOs and those who discussed him, but MPs, to you as chairman, and we are not all given that explanation which should convince us that we should vote for this law. In order for the Assembly to respect both the State Auditing Institution and the Citizens and the Ministers and MPs, this respect must be mutual and must also refer to topics that are dear to us and to those that are not dear to us and where we expect praise and where we expect criticism. So, a serious approach, which must be justified in laws and in this Rules of Procedure, must primarily refer to the spending of money collected through taxes in the budget and spent, apparently, illegally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32548	Mrs. Tabakovic, I have no doubt of well-intentioned and competentness, I would just like to inform you that the government has withdrawn the 2008 final account proposal. So, in this morning's letter... (Jorganka Tabakovic, from a place we haven't received yet. We didn't get, here, just now I'm getting information. So the government did it. The government has the right to withdraw, and it can be delivered with the budget. In any case, you're quite clear on your relationship. I will have insight into all the information that is available to me about this, but right now there is nothing more I can say than the fact that the 2008 Final Account proposal has been excluded from the parliamentary procedure, is no longer in the procedure. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of National MP Milica Radovic. I would like to inform you that I am in agreement with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of Mr. Petar Skundric, Minister of Mining and Energy, invited the sittings to attend: Dusan Mrakić and Radivoje Milanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Dejan Rajkovic, Assistant Minister of Mining and Energy, Tatjana Jovanovic, Chief of Staff, Aleksandra Babic, Adviser in the Oil and Gas Sector, Zlatiborka Andrejić, Adviser in the Secretariat and Milica Zoric, Adviser in the Mines and Geology Sector of the Ministry of Mining and Energy. Mr. Skundric has been in parliament for an hour with his associates, we welcome him. We move to the 19th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of RUDARATION (specificities) I remind you that the remaining time in the search in details of points 17, 18, 19 and 20 is the time for presidents, i.e. authorised representatives of parliamentary groups: PUPS – 15 minutes, Parliamentary minority group – 15 minutes, New Serbia – 15 minutes, LDP – 30 seconds, SPS - 15 minutes, forward Serbia – 15 minutes, DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 15 minutes, G 17 plus – 15 minutes, SRS – nine minutes and 10 seconds, ZES – 15 minutes. Time for parliamentary groups: PUPS – six minutes, Parliamentary minority group – eight minutes and 24 seconds, New Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds, LDP – no more time, SPS - 18 minutes, Forward Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds, DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds, G 17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds, SRS – 22 minutes and 10 seconds, ZES – 93 minutes and 36 seconds. We move on to the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Siniša Stamenković, Jelena Budimirović, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Otto Kišmarton, Zoran Babić, Milan Nikolic, Goran Mihajlović, Vitomir Plužarevic, Nikola Savivić, Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antić and Dragan Colić, Dusan Marić, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond, Milan Lapčević and Radoslav Mojsilović, as well as the Industry Committee. You have received a report from the Committee on Industry, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Milan Nikolic tabled an amendment proposing that a new article be added in front of article 1. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 1a be added after Article 1. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Plužarevic, on behalf of the SRS, has submitted this amendment, which should certainly have been accepted. The explanation for the submission of Mr Plužarevic's amendments is sufficient argument to accept the amendment and to stop the existence of the Mining Agency. If you want an argument more, you can find it in the stories of government members, who are constantly talking about reducing public spending. In May 2009, according to the Council for Comprehensive Regulation Reform, the Mining Agency was headed as a forming agency. The 2009 budget, however, covers it as a budget user. Otherwise, the Agency was established by the 2006 Mining Act, but it did not start working until May this year. In 2009, it was identified as a budget user, with 6,798,000 dinars first identified, and of which 5,234,000 were paid. During the rebalancing in April, it was realized that the agency could still operate with 1,975,000 dinars, which envisioned 1,279,000 for the salary, which means almost three times less. The reason for the refusal of this amendment, written by the Government, is that it is not accepted for the provisions of Article 12a of the Mining Act to be laid down to educate the Mining Agency as a special organisation necessary to carry out professional activities related to the achievement of the objectives set out in the Strategy for the Management of Mineral Raw materials of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. as a special body, to carry out the tasks which it has been assigned to in the jurisdiction of the 2006 law when it was established. Since the data from May this year speak of the Agency's failure to work after three years of establishment, I think it is a legitimate question that I want to ask on behalf of the SRS – whether something has changed since May to today, i.e. Did the Mining Agency work in the meantime? If it isn't, is it okay to continue to allocate funds from the budget? It explains that the Agency is educated as a special organisation necessary to carry out professional activities. If all these tasks are not carried out by the Agency, they can be carried out within one of the sectors of the RES. Even if it started working in the meantime, however, it needs to be abolished, because, like all other agencies, the organ is parallel to the official state authorities. On the other hand, it would be a move that the government would show that it really intends to reduce public spending, because, according to data it has managed to collect the Commissioner for Public Information, there are about 40 different bodies, starting from ministries to various agencies, administrations, institutions, funds and other organisations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's address will be completed by reminding me that on 31 August of this year, my resignation and resignation of my colleague Elena Christmas-Talian have been submitted neatly to the President of the Assembly. To this day, the Administrative Committee has not accepted our resignations and our wish made in them. I will remind you that all other parliamentary parties have always been allowed to make changes in the composition of their parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32550	Thank you. You used four minutes from the time of your parliamentary group, so there are 18 minutes left. Minister Petar Skundric has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32551	Dear People's MPs, the answer is that it is true that the existence of the Mining Agency is foreseen by law, however, it does not exist in fact. The funds for its work did not exist, were indicated, but the budget rebalance was not reached and are not scheduled for the next financial year either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32552	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antic and Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I will also use the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group to comment on the amendments we have submitted to the amendment and supplementation of the Mining Act. As a parliamentary group, we have submitted five amendments that we are trying to essentially, not just to be written, we are affecting the text of the bill. Why do I say it essentially? Because mine survival is particularly important for amendments to the 16th and 17th members, so I will pay the most attention to them, since I believe that the government's motivation is to come with this proposal to the National Assembly to prepare for the closure of most mines with underground exploitation, not to say all, without any alternative. That's what stands over the heads of all the miners who work in these mines. Others, I'd say, there are no major changes to this law. They're just a mask for what I want to talk about. Nothing else, which essentially solves a problem or overcomes a situation, does not exist. Things are even clearer if we also know the context of this whole story, that the IMF is making a lot of pressure to remove from the budget every beneficiary of state subsidies, including mines with underground exploitation, which, without help from the budget, cannot survive. The proposed amendments and additions to the applicable law are mainly, as I said, until the amendment of Article 47 of the applicable law and afterwards, just a distraction from the underlying problem, in our opinion. As regards the amendment to Article 2. The bill, the applicable law, states in Article 13 that the exploitation of raw materials can be carried out by a company, a company or another legal person. It is illogical to add entrepreneurs, when it is known that only making documentation is necessary to obtain exploitation rights, without the cost of research and the cost of buying land, is hundreds of times the cost of setting up an enterprise. That's why we're asking for this member to be deleted. It is interesting that this proposal puts an entrepreneur in a position of privilege with respect to other economic operators and Article 22, where multiple sentences are provided for entrepreneurs for the same infringements in relation to the penalties provided for by the undertaking. For the same infringements, the company is fined between 300,000 and 300,000 dinars, and the entrepreneur between 50,000 and 500,000 dinars; or, in the other case, the company is fined in the range of 100,000 and 200,000 dinars, and the entrepreneur from 5,000 to 200,000 dinars. It is clear that this kind of favoration (although you justify it by the Law of Infringement) is inadmissible to others. That is why we have proposed to delete this member, which is in line with the amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law. Furthermore, it is absurd that the technical control of the project is carried out by the same legal person who made it, because it devises technical control. If the technical control of the project is envisaged for any level of design in any branch and any state, it is never done by the legal person who designed the project, so we suggest that Article 14. The bill, although you justify it by the specificity of this activity. Finally, in the proposal to amend the Mining Act, the most important change is in Article 47 of the basic law, where the last sentence which provides for the development of the main mine closure project is deleted, but with the possibility of reopening the mine. Our amendment to Article 16. The draft law on amendments and additions to the law is essential for the topic we are talking about today. Article 47 of the current law reads: “In the event of permanent suspension of work, the company is obliged to take all measures to protect the mining and land on which the work was carried out and the measures to protect and resuscitate the environment in order to ensure the life and health of people, property, in all respects of the additional mining project of permanent labour suspension. “ A sentence to be deleted: “The company is also obliged to do a major project on the closure of a mine in which all the necessary parameters will be precisely defined for eventually, again, the opening of a mine. “ What bothered here, so this sentence is deleted, except for that possible later reopening of the mine? It is not disputed that mines can be preserved at a given unfavourable moment until they are able to create favourable conditions to reopen. That's not controversial. The government won't let this change happen. Once the mines are closed, they won't open anymore, because for the government, this represents, to say the big problem, for which there is no essential solution. Not just this government, but not the previous governments. In addition to Article 16, we have also proposed to delete Article 17, which proposes adding a new Article 47a, which gives a precise instruction on how to close mines with, I would say, tragic solutions in points 1) to 6) which represent only the continuation and development of the previous member, which definitely enables permanent closure of mines. What is this solution that will help someone who has lost their jobs and whose family will not be able to function properly? There is no such solution, especially in this way. There are no solutions that will replace someone's job and the ability to earn their salary. In Serbia, no one will give him money for life today if he doesn't earn it himself. What's the second solution? It's all just a story, a promise to meet these people. Not to mention the problems in local communities, which this government is not even aware of, because these mines are most often the only significant economic operators, such as, above all, in terms of the number of employees, in areas prone to intense population migration, mostly because of high unemployment. So far, experience has shown us that thousands of employees of the Public Enterprise "The Mines with Subterranean Exploitation" in 2005 accepted the social programme and left the company, but the new job also found only 50 new companies. Everyone else is on the lists of the National Employment Service or sitting and waiting for maybe ten years to retire, because in those years, no one will take them to work. I don't think that's the answer to these questions. It is interesting, for two reasons, to suggest that the fee for underground exploitation of all types of coal be reduced from 1 to 0.5%, which is undeniably good for mines. On the one hand, the question is, who's going to pay that fee if they close the mines with underground coal exploitation? On the other hand, the fact is that the state subsidizes this production, and then charges the fee, so that because of the way they split these fees at the end of the transaction, they are conditionally said to win only the municipality, which I also support because of the situation in which our local self-government is located. It may even be good for a part of the fee (we did not intervene because it was not possible) not to return to the Republic of Serbia, but only to be the income of municipalities, because the proposed small percentage of the compensation is given less money for local self-government than this fee, so I repeat, that you may fully grant it to the municipality. Finally, there are still amendments to the criminal provisions, which also solve nothing important for the survival of the mine and, on the other hand, nothing important for overcoming the problems that would arise by closing the mines. I'd like to say a few words about the current situation of mines with underground exploitation. In the 1990s, the Serbian government estimated that these mines should be preserved, because they were one of the essential factors for the preservation of social peace, and in 1992 a decision was made to attach all the "Electro-Ecores of Serbia" mines to the public enterprise, in order to overcome problems of coal and profit payments. Major problems in coal underground mines began with the arrival of a new government in 2000, which, under the pressure of the IMF, awaited a politically favourable moment to shut down these mines. The work in the mine is done as tens of years ago; the equipment is worn out and cancels daily. And if not, the daily mining work is certainly in itself extremely difficult, one of the hardest, and sometimes requires superhuman efforts. This is exactly what I'm saying because of these people who deserve to get out of their situation, some kind of solution. In such circumstances since April 2004, contributions to miners' salaries have not been paid, so since 30 June 2009, they and members of their families have not had the right to receive free treatment. So, all this is with the state's consent, because a strategy on restructuring and privatisation of the Public Enterprise for the underground exploitation of coal Resavica, which meant that the debt problem would be resolved after privatisation. This year, on August 3rd, 88,000,000 dinars were paid, according to official data, for health insurance, and total debt is about a billion and a half dinar, again according to official data. For more than 4,000 miners in nine mines, the strike was interrupted. Today, mines and miners, who can't retire without paid contributions to the PIO Fund, survive. Workers who have acquired conditions cannot retire because no one has been paid contributions to the PIO Fund. The strategy I mentioned on 17 December 2007 was unanimously rejected at a session of the main board of the Public Undertaking's Trade Union for the Sub-Dumb Exploitation of Coal Resavica, as it became clear that it was not sincere, that it predicted the brutal closure of almost all mines with underground coal exploitation and the release of almost all workers. The question arises how could such a strategy even exist without the existence of a law on the privatisation of public enterprises and, on the other hand, without the existence of a law on the closure of mines, which might be the only correct way, if the term "correct" could be used for such an act? This job was planned to be done quietly, to slowly close the mines after years of frowning on people who work there. That's why there's no law, and that's why we're working quietly to avoid a bigger protest. In all European countries, mines are closed under concrete mine closure laws, due to the existence of greater interest, not to say public interest. This proposal provides for closure on the basis of a programme consisting of a public undertaking in which the mine operates. The closure of mines is a very sensitive issue also because mines are located in areas where virtually the only significant economic operators are, so it is unacceptable, in our opinion, to close on the basis of the programme alone. What's the consequence of closing the mine anyway? On the one hand, that would be the import of coal, which has already taken hold. I call today on those who lead Serbia to calculate well what is worth more – do they help our citizens to work in mines, make money for their families' lives, or spend a lot more money on coal imports, at the same time that we have tens of thousands of people hungry from mining families? The only sustainable solution (not to be saying all this without saying anything about how to get out of this situation), which the miners themselves are propagating, realizes how serious this is and that no one is directly to blame for such a thing, but the government is responsible for finding a way out of this situation, so the only sustainable solution is to close some, hopefully a smaller number, and experts will give the ultimate word, the unrestrained mines, with which you can then and in privatisation. Others, who can operate, should be helped to increase production by tighter binding to the electricity system, in order to create conditions to take over most of the workers from closed mines. I especially urge all MPs to vote on these two key amendments precisely because of the lack of a strategy to come out of this problem, to together prevent someone from closing mines, not only mines, but also some municipalities, which would in a way continue the story of the laws on the maximum number of employees in the republican and local administration, and then health, education, etc. We will do everything from our side, I said it and in the debate in principle, that until closing in such a cruel way, without any economic and social plan for miners, it does not come. If you do not accept our amendments, I am telling the MPs of the ruling coalition, all other envisaged amendments to the basic text of the law, whether they are good or bad, as the people say, will fall into the water and this whole debate and this whole law will no longer make sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32554	Mr. Zankov, just one question: these 13 minutes and 15 seconds is from authorized, or...? I'm sorry, I wasn't there. Thank you. Minister Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32555	I will try to give one brief answer, so as not to answer every amendment submitted by Mr. Zankov with a group of MPs. I really appreciate the concern of the underground coal mines and the position of our miners in those mines, which is expressed in your pledoa. I am saying this now and for your sake and for the miners – this government is not planning and not planning to close the mine in the underground coal exploitation. The fact is that we have provided subsidies for the current year, and that the budget for the next financial year is planned at a higher level than the current year and that we have taken steps to seek strategic partners for the systematic and long-term resolution of the renting business of underground coal exploitation. In this regard, negotiations are being held with some companies, for example, on the construction of a thermal power plant in Stavlje, between 250 and 350 megawatts, which would allow for the profitable business of a part of underground mine exploitation. Also, talks are being held in parallel with another potential strategic partner for the base "Reavica", in terms of building a complex that would also include coal exploitation and electricity production. Therefore, this government does not plan to close the mines in underground exploitation, but it is normal for a legal norm to regulate and open and close mines, because mineral goods are not renewable sources. These are limited resources, and when it reaches the end of that resource, it's normal for one of those mines to shut down. However, on behalf of the government, on behalf of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, I am responsible for saying that it is not planned, nor will the closure of the mine in the underground coal exploitation be achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32556	Thank you. It's no problem. Here you go. Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If Mr. Zankov will answer?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32558	The time at your disposal is normally 30 seconds. Mr. Stefan Zankov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32559	I got two more minutes. So, here, I thank the Minister for understanding that my... Can I speak? So I thank the minister for understanding my constructive approach. My exposure should have just caused what the minister did, to say preventively, that he publicly says that this government is not thinking... And I hope that the minister will keep his word in the term of office of this government. What scares the miners... I come from a region where there are lots of mines with underground exploitation, and I know a lot of miners who work, I said in what conditions. They're afraid of that normative that's now practically being introduced and made possible. Maybe this government only lasts until spring, so it's some other government, that's what scares them. That's not a good message. If I have achieved something, I have achieved that publicly given word of the Minister of Energy, that, at least while he is a minister, miners are not afraid. On the other hand, that calling to strategic partners, it has been many times promised to miners over the past nine years, since they have had a slightly different treatment. You can see that. It may have been a difficult period until 2000, but at least the messages sent to them and some of the intentions shown were not controversial. I say, if I won, not me, but the miners and the mines, if they got a message like this, Minister, I've done something here with my exposure. That's how I thank the minister in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32560	Thank you, Mr. Zankov. You've wasted your time as an authorised representative. Mr. Free Maras has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32561	Mrs. Comic, last time, misusing the position she was sitting in, refused our time as MPs. That's why, Mr. Skundrich, I won't have more than 30 seconds to ask you any questions. When you mentioned this topic, you just referred to it as principles, I'm interested in how long will the mining rent in Serbia be 3%? Is that what that agreement with the Russians obliges us to do? The second thing is to make this topic clear to the public about the nukes, which the Russian ambassador told us. If you can explain this once again, since the State Auditing Institution report mentions that Belgrade's "Informatics" is one of those with which the ministries did business, what was this public interest that the government approved the "Srbigas" purchase of Belgrade's "Informatics", if you know?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32562	Time's up. We're back on the subject. Here you go, Mr. Skundrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32563	Since it always happens that Mr. Marash comes out when I answer his questions, then this time at least one part of the answer is heard. When it comes to a taxi for oil exploitation, it is true that we are bound by a lex specialis, namely that we are bound by an agreement that this assembly has ratified in terms of respecting the facts of the day when the agreement between the two states is initialled, i.e. 31 December 2007. However, I want to tell you that no one has more excise duties on derivatives in the environment than the Republic of Serbia does. That, if we may say, is compensated against this amount of tax, although there are countries in the environment with the same tax as our tax, related to oil exploitation. As far as your question is concerned, if I understand correctly, about the nuke, I really didn't hear Mr. Konuzin's integral statement and there's no need to compromise on that statement. I want to tell you that, according to the Energy Strategy, according to the work related to this strategy by 2015, it is not planned to build nuclear centres in Serbia. According to the moratorium that exists, the Ministry of Mining and Energy did not take any action in terms of planning, designing or building nuclear centres.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32564	Thank you, Minister. You have no right to a replica. Please, the draft law on amendments to the Mining Act is on the agenda. Roughly in violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras, you have asked three questions to the Minister of Energy in 30 seconds outside the topic of the agenda. Because of the spirit of parliamentary debate, I have allowed you to ask the Minister to answer you and the debate outside the agenda is currently over. Thank you very much. You have no right to a replica. We're moving on to a debate on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marash. If you sign up, you can have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32565	You are very funny, just as you should, as Mrs. Komic, Mr. Novakovic. Of course I pressed. That's one thing. The other thing, Mr. Secretary said I wasn't in the O.R. when he mentioned me. You've violated Article 27. The rules of procedure of this assembly the way you conduct the session. He directly mentioned me, he directly commented on my presentation and you have the right to give me the word at least as an authorised representative, who has no more time because of the failure of your colleague, the chairman, Ms. Comic, because she took away from me last time. Mr. Skundric, for the first time I have to tell you this - you have disappointed me very much now, for two reasons. The first reason is because you said that excises replace three percent of the mining rent. Excises are paid by the citizens of this country, and the mine is paid by the one who exploited the mining wealth. I'm really disappointed that the Minister of Energy can say something like that. The other thing, Mr. Skundrich, is not true that I'm not in the O.R. when you give me an answer, but you never give me an answer until I get out of the O.R. That's what Serbia's public sees, every time I ask a question about NIS, there's squirm and silence coming, but there's no answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32566	The word has a minister, Mr. Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32567	In the last session, I really gave an answer to your question, and you came out of the O.R. at the moment, since there were answers to some other questions, in the context of these questions. If I've hurt you with my answer, I'm seriously sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32568	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, vice-president of the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32569	Mr. Chairman, I am reporting on the basis of Articles 31 and 104 because I believe that, as you say, we have come out of the topic for a moment because these were the replicas between Mr. Minister and Mr. Maraš, we must protect the dignity of the National Assembly by telling the truth, and you as chairman; if you have not met, I will now assist you in the course of the presidency, regarding the statement of his Excellency to the Ambassador of the Russian Federation, Mr. Alexander Konuzin. Namely, anyone who opened the daily newspaper today could see a short or integrated version of what his Excellency Mr. Konuzin said. For Serbia's public to know, it is the best possible intention of a friendly Russian state to help us. As Mr. Minister said, the moratorium on the construction of a nuclear power plant lasts until 2015, but in this sense on the nearer and further future, Mr. Konuzin spoke when he said that Russia wants to become our strategic partner in the process of restructuring the electricity industry and in the process of building power plants in Serbia. After all, I must remind you that Russia and how it is involved, over a long period of time, which Mr. Minister knows even better, as well as the MPs, in restoring the Djerdap 1 Hydropower Plant and that over 1,500 tonnes of generator power equipment have arrived, which will also be useful to Serbia. Therefore, when the names of respected diplomats and officials of other countries are mentioned, especially when it comes to the Russian Federation, we must report from this post to the chairman and explain to the MPs and citizens what it is, because the ambassador is not in a position to address us directly here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32570	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I have no doubt about the good intentions of applying an article. 31 and 104. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. All information on energy is valuable to this country. I know that interest in this session is always increased when Minister Skundric sits here, but I would still ask and remind that we are discussing amendments to the Mining Act. Mr. Ostojić is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32571	Mr. Novakovic, I insist that in the day of voting vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part, Article 27. Mr. Marash was talking about the agenda, he was talking about the mining rent, and you're saying it's out of the agenda. The fact that we lost time by mistake Gordana Komic, that's one thing, but he stuck to the agenda, Mr. Novakovic, and he was just talking about the mining. Do we have the Mining Act on the agenda? We do. Is that where the mine rent is mentioned? Yes, it's mentioned. So it was about the agenda. I'm sorry, by the way, only if "the governor of Serbia" is making statements that the nuclear negotiations are being negotiated, the ambassador of Russia, how can I interpret it rather than as the words of a man who knows what is going on here, negotiating with the government, and Mr. Skundric, the minister in charge, says he has no idea. Who's negotiating? The Minister of Sports? Rasim Ljajic? There are very strange things going on here, Mr. Novakovic. This is an opportunity to discuss it right in the agenda, because on the one hand, it proposes an increase in coal ore rent and what I know, and here we can't increase the mining of oil, there's 3% left, because you all voted that way when we gave the Russians that gift. I remind you, in Russia, the mine is 27%.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32572	Please note that in the day of the vote, the Assembly will declare a possible breach of the Rules of Procedure today, Article 27, which was pointed out by MP Mr Maras and MP Mr Zoran Ostojić. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act to delete Article 2 of that law. In fact, you've provided for this Article 2 in this law that an entrepreneur can exploit mineral raw materials. The Serbian Radical Party believes such a solution is not good because practice has shown that corruption and various abuses are possible in this area. If that were true, it shows an example of the exploitation of gravel and sand, where cases like this occur. Corruption may be big, but it's not the only problem that arises in exploiting all natural goods. In fact, a major problem with the exploitation of natural resources arises when those who exploit it do not respect the standards of environmental protection. We have a lot of cases like this, which can be devastating both by society and by the middle in which the exploitation is done. We also have cases of non-compliance with some other standards, some other standards; road infrastructure is affected by exploitation, and those doing exploitation are not trying to maintain that road infrastructure. We find this problem more pronounced when it comes to entrepreneurs. Since I see a disturbance here on your screen, I don't know if we have a transmission on RTS. I'm done with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32574	Thank you, Mr. Saviæ. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32575	Do we, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, once again give you the opinion of the SRS that the amendments to the Mining Act are necessary? We didn't expect these, with respect for your efforts, we expected essentially different suggestions. I don't know how much this is in direct, but it is certainly in an indirect relationship – we appeal, among other things, to the Ministry of Energy and Mining that, besides the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, pay attention to mine employees. Because when we want to express how difficult it is to do certain jobs, we say: mining work. So we urge you to get involved, in addition to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to help all employees in this difficult situation, whether it's surface exploitation or underground, it doesn't matter, but it's one of the most difficult occupations. Mr. Minister, I assume that this amendment, which my colleague Milan Nikolic submitted on behalf of the SRS, was not accepted because in the set of these laws there was also an expropriation law for the regional pipeline, so more attention was directed to this law than to mining, and it was unwarranted and unwarrantedly so. Article 13 provides for one exception. We are well aware of the conditions for the exploitation of mineral raw materials. Article 13 of the current law has made some exceptions and said – for companies that own certain areas is a possible exploitation for their own needs, although not registered to carry out mining activities. You said it wasn't anymore. We are ready to accept it, but fellow Nikolic has suggested that a natural face can exploit broken stone up to 300 m3, a decorative stone up to 30 m3, sand and gravel up to 100 m3, brick clay up to 80 m3 on its own land, for its own purposes. In order for this to be an exception, as seen by the SRS, two conditions should be met – that it is the owner of the land and that it benefits for its own needs, based on an application submitted to the municipal body and the competent ministry. We further suggested, given that the beneficiary of this mineral and the owner of the land, that it be without compensation. You're a university professor, then you're Minister of Energy, I assume you're going out of Belgrade in some election campaigns, in cases where the ministry needs to make an insight into the site, but you're less likely to meet with land users or users who should take advantage of this possibility proposed by the Serbian Radical Party. If you have a cottage in one of the beautiful parts of Serbia, or you go to one of the guests, then I'm quite sure, Mr. Minister, that a number of people will come to you and tell you – why, Minister, you didn't allow for your own needs, on our own land to be used, to exploit. This is about relatively small quantities, and it is absolutely clear to every MP that these are not quantities that could be used for commercial purposes, but only for their own purposes. In an explanation why the Government does not accept this amendment, that I do not read it in general, so that we do not waste time, it is said - the law proposes to delete Article 13. The Mining Act, which determines the possibility of exploiting for its own purposes, since the application of the same legal provisions indicated that the concept of exploitation for so-called. There is also no need to exploit mineral raw materials, as a general good in the state property, to act on the basis of which income is made and for which the use of which is to pay compensation. There's an exception here, there's no income coming out, and we suggest there's no pay or fee. I think in this difficult situation, this government, specifically your ministry, can make a small concession to the citizens of Serbia, at least those who have the need and opportunity to use broken stone, brick clay or some other mineral for their own purposes. Regardless of the fact that this amendment is not accepted when deciding in the Government, I assume you will be in favour of accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32576	The time spent since the parliamentary group's time is five minutes and 35 seconds, by an authorised representative. The word is Mr. Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32577	Mr. Pericic, when it comes to private possessions, he is incomparable and if someone actually makes exploitation for their own needs, in quantities that will really be enough for his needs and do not exceed those standards, the law does not say that this is not possible. It is said that one number began for its own needs, and then it was exploited and trafficked mineral raw materials, and that this was not in accordance with the law, nor did it provide a necessary rent in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32578	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Just to let you know that the TV transmission is neat, but we have some technical problems related to the news car - the Assembly, so it's an internal problem, so we don't see each other. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32579	Mr. Minister, I think this statement of yours will reflect on some of the inspection bodies. I am not absolutely satisfied, on behalf of the SRS, because the law does not say that it is allowed, and therefore it would not be a problem to accept this amendment at all. I come from a place where there's so-called. Wild exploitation and I agree with you that someone who deals with exploitation, surface, underground or any, in the form of occupation, should be subject to certain sanctions unless it is in accordance with the law, but this is something for which there is a need to regulate the law itself. I'm sure it'll happen that maybe unconscious inspection bodies, in case a man starts exploiting his own needs, coming, being bullied... To avoid this, we suggest that it log in neatly before the beginning of the exploitation and that it be exclusively for the purpose of its own needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32580	Thank you, Mr. Perry. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32581	Unfortunately, Mr. Lapcevic is absent for very justified reasons, so he will not be able to explain these amendments he has submitted, so you will be safe today, at least in those two minutes, faster. That's why I'm gonna say I'm sorry the Ministry didn't accept this and the other amendments, even though they were well-intentioned and we think they're fixing the text of the law. I would only like to comment on a few things that have been said here many times, even before. It is truly amazing to hear stories about NIS being sold to an investor in Serbia. Investors should not be forced, so whoever it is, and is essentially one of the biggest, if not the largest company in the world in terms of oil and gas exploitation – "Gaspromneft". When we see what kind of situation they found at NIS, we can only be happy that there's no big problem with it, because they're even cheated on in that purchase. We know of those ninety million euros or eight billion dinars of minus, which occurred in the last few months of work, before taking over NIS, which is true and what is very well known, and not in some earlier period. Everyone knows that it can be and published one day; maybe it won't, because concrete and correct partners bought NIS and that's why we have a peaceful situation. Serbia has largely provided itself with energy. You can see that this is currently the biggest problem in the world and that the solution to energy issues is currently being put in the world and Europe as a priority, as point one for the next period, or for this 21st century. In that light, I think the ambassador's statement yesterday was well-intentioned, nothing else, but it's still up to us. So it's up to us to decide whether we want to use atomic energy or not. Besides, it's something everyone knows, at least the minister can confirm it, he certainly knows better than I do, but I asked around – one such power plant has been built for about 14 years. It's not something that would happen at once. I say again, we need to agree on many issues and have a consensus, no matter who the government is, who the opposition is. Unfortunately, it is difficult for Serbia to do so. When we fail around Kosovo and Metohija, we will hardly succeed with anything else. There are always some interests and something that prevents us from finding what is essentially best for the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia, which personally prevents me as a man and as a folk MP of mourning. I have one question for the minister, and I hope he answers me. I've tried more than once, and I haven't been able to get that information. I spoke in the Assembly about it. This summer, a big story was made about the construction of a refinery in Smederevo, which is to be made by a company called Komiko Oil (which, during its existence, has not produced a single bolt, has 120 dollars of founding capital or something, let it have 1,200, is completely irrelevant in this situation), in a place that is not intended for such a thing at all. There was a lot of noise, and in Smederevo municipality, three sessions, all summer it was debated. Now the Constitutional Court, concerning the assignment of land, must give its assessment whether the Smederevo municipality did it in a legal way or not. In any case, such a refinery cannot be built without about 20 environmental permits, and as far as I know, not without energy consent or anything like that, given by the Ministry of Energy. Did your ministry ever give such consent? I hope you'll answer me, not shake my head. It's caused a lot of trouble in the whole county and in the city. I know this is a little beyond what the amendments are, but since we're going to let you go anyway, about all the amendments, I think it's a very important question. You know that in Smederev there is "Ju-Es style", as the largest factory. By 1 January 2010, they had to invest, according to a contract signed with the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Mr Vojislav Kostunica, which you supported as an SPS and with local self-government, $50m in its purification capacity, means, in filters and everything else needed for the factory to do as it works in Pittsburgh, as it works in Kosice, in order to be ecologically clean. I must tell you that 50% of the children in Smederev are already having problems with lung disease from birth until his second year; they are probably at risk most in Serbia because of this swine flu, because of everything that "Ju-Es style" does, which has not invested a dollar of it. So, fifty million committed, it's about as long as it takes to make the factory work in the way that our laws, which we've adopted here, are predicting. Recently Mr. Dulic explained it, our laws predict that the factory may have a work permit. Besides, someone's pushing that story about this refinery, which is completely unnecessary. You can tell me or not, but according to the information I have, in this state as our refineries in Panchev and Novi Sad, even if they work full capacity, they cover a lot more than we need. Not to mention that NIS plans to build a huge refinery in Panchev, it is announced, where it will invest 450,000 euros, which will work with American partners; it will likely be the most modern in Europe and will cover not only our needs but the needs of the entire region. If that's the situation, then why do we need another refinery? Is it just because possibly American capital is behind it, in Smederev? We have all kinds of information, from the fact that it's a montage refinery; there are three such ones in Afghanistan that cost about two hundred million dollars, and that's about the price of this refinery; they serve only for the needs of the U.S. military. Is this for the military in Bondsteel and what the Americans have in the Serbian AP Kosovo and Metohija? Why would you make that refinery there if it's known that the market doesn't need it? Second, you'd be making big environmental problems for Smeder. Third, there's no port at the metal bridge and there's no pipeline. How would the crude oil get here? How would the crude oil to that refinery be delivered safely to be processed into any derivative? That's why I'm interested in whether the Ministry has given energy consent, is it realistic at all, and is there a need on our market to create another refinery, especially one that is absolutely, in all things we know so far, unnecessary?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32582	Eight minutes and fifty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. It's mine to inform you. The Minister's word, Mr. Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32583	In short, if you please, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Ministry of Mining and Energy did not issue an energy license. Regarding the sale of the oil industry of Serbia, I would like to say here that "Gaspromneft" could not be deceived, because it was based on its own analyses and statements signed by 51% of Serbia's Oil Industry. I still think it's a gas-naphtha arrangement, one of the best developmental projects and that the real effects on this arrangement, which represents, among other things, the strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, will be felt in the next thirty years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32584	Thank you. (Dear Shormaz, from the scene: only one sentence...) )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32585	It doesn't have to be, it's not a replica, I have nothing to replicate. I agree, that's what I said. I said that maybe it could be interpreted that way because some here keep saying that we gave Rafineria for free, how we sold NIS for free. We didn't sell it. It's 51%. I agree, like you said, that it's not for free and I agree that we're just going to have positive effects. Of course it was necessary to sign and begin the realization of "South Stream". That's not a question, either, if that's what we're talking about. Here, you see, it was signed in Paris a few days ago: the President of France and the Prime Minister of Russia signed, France is involved in the South Stream. I don't know how many colleagues know, the day Mr. Medvedev spoke about this speaker, an agreement was made between Russia and Turkey on the passage of the "South Stream" through the waters of the Turkish state in the Black Sea, which was very important for the "South Stream" to visit Ukraine. The "South Stream" has also become a reality. I am glad that something we did while we were executive power survives in the country as a big and good solution to Serbia's energy stability, which is the basis for the country's economic development in the future. We agree. I am also pleased with what you said – that the energy permit is not given. I don't know how much longer the mayor of Smeder will walk on TV and talk about how he's gonna build a refinery.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32586	One minute and thirty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. The word is Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32587	Ladies and gentlemen, if these mines are excluded, which are state-owned and objectively in a very difficult state, by extracting and selling mineral raw materials in Serbia are mainly dealt with by very wealthy people, unorthodox criminals, who have become millionaires by robbing Serbian citizens. I have the impression that the state that made it possible for them to become individual legal solutions creates conditions for them by further extracting and selling mineral raw materials to increase their wealth. I'm referring to the amount of profit compensation, which, under this bill, will be required to pay. I believe that the state in this area must have two priorities: it is the first one to protect its natural resources (and the minister said it is resources that are not renewable); the second one is to charge at least a part of the money she did not charge in thief's privatisation. That is why I have proposed an amendment to increase the fees for the exploitation of mineral raw materials by 100%: from 1% to 2%, as the government has proposed, to 2-4% of total revenues. I believe that this will make it easier for the state to protect natural resources and to provide means to prevent and eliminate the harmful consequences of the exploitation of mineral raw materials. I will use the presence of Mr. Skundric and ask one question concerning the Municipality of the Great Plan, from which I come. I wonder if the state will bring order into the exploitation of gravel and sand on the coast of Morava? It is a responsible, very well-organised crime, with elements of the mafia association; only in the area from Svilajnc to Smederev, via the Great Plan, the country is damaged annually by several million euros. The gravel is dug without fundamental control. Second, the coast of Morava in certain parts has been completely mutilated, its natural shape has changed. The third thing, the third problem – heavy overloaded trucks, because there nobody cares about legal regulations, about axle loads, literally destroys the roads they pass. I constantly face protests from the people of Lozovic and Milosevic, who literally cannot sleep at night. They claim that dozens and dozens of loaded trucks pass through the same streets at night. When 30 loaded trucks pass, not only do they "break" the street, but the sand remains scattered in the streets and it objectively threatens traffic. The municipality is powerless to stop it. We charge that through certain fees, as much as we can control. However, the fact is that inspectors, competent state inspectors, police, the Water Directorate and the Ministry do not take measures within their jurisdiction to resolve the problem. I'd really like to ask Mr. Skundric to say what the state is doing on this matter, can this stand?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32588	One and a half minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32589	I really think we need to take care of resources and protect the environment. I must disappoint you, my answer will not be as you expect. It is said that this ministry is not responsible for the exploitation of gravel and sand from water streams and shores. She's in charge of the Water Directorate. But we've received this knowledge, not only now, but we've started certain actions of our inspection wherever possible, providing proposals for measures to be taken in the direction of protection. We take this into knowledge, and we will take those measures that we can take as part of the government, passing on to the competent institutions that it really must not be allowed to devast river flows and coasts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32590	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr. Sreto Peric answered the word. Sure, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32591	As part of the time of the mandated representative of the SRS. Given the proposed rate of compensation for the exploitation of mineral wealth, only one can be assumed. The question of the rational management of the mineral wealth is raised. Mr. Minister, you must present here your ministry's motives for such a small percentage of the fee. I assume you know the situation in the environment. If we have an average rate of 2%, and we know that there is about 4% in the environment (there are other countries, where these percentages are much higher), then we conclude that the state of Serbia certainly is rich in big ore, and the fact is, we're not poor either, but it's not that, or that we're very financially strong, so we don't need those funds, so, well, we want to bring it down to some minimum. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Dusan Maric suggested that only 1% increase these amounts, and I think it is absolutely rational. We have two conditions. Nowhere in the environment, at least I don't know, a fee for non-metallic raw materials, such as laporac, limestone, clay, sand, gravel, technical, construction, architectural stone, is not charged per tonne and is not left... In terms of tone, it is only possible, but it is not possible for the government to establish it, but rather proposed by law which are the amounts. Why wasn't there a proposal here for compensation for that part, but it leaves the government with the possibility of her doing it at the end of the last quarter of the current year for next year? We don't even know what the concept of the government is related to this proposal, whether the exploitation of these minerals in Ljubljana, Sopot, Barajev, the Shop will be the same. Does the government see such a solution or might it be a little different? It really is necessary, Mr. Minister, to explain your ministry's motives, as a proposing (i.e. the Government is a proposing, but it must have started from the Ministry of Energy), which is why it goes with such low percentages, especially since at one point you predicted this amount of 3%, it seems to me, when all costs are denied? Mr. Zoran Ostojić said that the fee in the Russian Federation for gas and oil is 22%, if I'm not mistaken, precision for the sake of accuracy, 17.5% is compensation for that exploitation. If you don't mind, you don't have to do it right after I say so, if you bring it up in a few sentences, people's MPs and the public of Serbia would like to hear it – what is the situation with mini-power plants? What's the problem? How does Serbia see that? Does building these facilities have a perspective in Serbia's energy system or not? Do those who plan to invest in this sector need to deal with the team, or is that perhaps, I call for an old term, a missed investment, so that there is no waste of time, no energy? I'm asking this because the area I come from, which is Podrinje (precisely, Love), is full of words on which mini power plants can be built, so that citizens can hear your answer if you're willing to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32592	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The time of the authorised representative is spent, and the word is Mr. Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32593	I'll be really rational. We've been keeping an eye on the amount of rent. All I want to do is warn the MPs and the Serbian public to make sure that the percentage of the billing on the total income or the profits achieved. Our law provides for total income, and some with slightly higher percentages are about taxation of profits. There are these significant differences that occur in percentages. It is true that the rent is somewhat lower than the rent in the environment. The reason was to attract investors, because we believe that there is much more to be invested in this area than ever before. It's the only motive the government had in proposing this level of mining rent. When it comes to mini power plants, a regulation on incentives measures and mechanisms for implementing these measures for renewable energy sources was adopted at the last cabinet session. I would like to say that there are 850 cadastrian positions registered in Serbia for small hydropower plants or mini-power plants, total capacity of about 500 megawatts of installed power. It is certainly a good resource, to be used and created all the frameworks, both legal and economic, to use this pure source of energy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32594	Thank you, Mr. Skundrich. (Zoran Ostojić, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica, thank you. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Mr. Marash, on what basis are you answering? Mr. Maras is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32595	Mr. Chairman, I don't know why you're doing this. Mr. Sreto Peric just directly called Mr. Ostojić that he did not present the correct information. Mr Ostojić also wanted to explain that dilemma about the mining rent, and you do not give him the right to replication. I really don't understand. No one wants to abuse anything. Only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Ostojic asked for a word to respond to Mr Peric, who mentioned his name and said he was incorrectly presenting the data.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32596	You didn't call for a member, and the 104 was already and he was 27. So you can't call on those members. On the other hand, the right to the replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I warn you that you have severely violated the rules of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you not to do so in the future. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in voting day on this argument or not? All right, the Assembly will make a statement on this argument in the voting day. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by Mr. Maras Slobodan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32597	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Do you believe that in the course of the eight-hour, ten-hour session of the National Assembly, only once can the Rules of Procedure be harmed in accordance with Rule 104 hurt the dignity of the Assembly? Just once in eight hours? I'm advertising right now, pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, 104 and 27 – dignity of the congregation and the way you lead the congregation. You may, during the day 18, break the way you run the congregation, meaning that you do not lead it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we can point out that every time. Mr. Chairman, we can't just do it once a day. That's why I pointed it out. You continue to refuse to give the word to Mr Ostojić, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or with your vision of the Rules of Procedure, you remind me to harshly violate the Rules of Procedure. I want to help you, no one wants to interfere with this debate. We're all here for the same job. Please don't interpret our words, this was a replica to you, so you misunderstood me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32598	You had no right to a replica. You have advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have not again called upon any provision of the Rules of Procedure; you have broken the Rules of Procedure again, and I will again, but for the last time, warn you and ask you not to do so again. Mr. Ostojić has a word for advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32599	Mr. Novakovic, it is clearly defined in the Rules of Procedure when he who holds the session gives a replica to the MP who answered for the replica. I answered the line on the basis of Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure. You're saying I don't have the right to a replica. My opinion is that I have the right to a replica because Mr. Peric mentioned me and challenged something I said. He indirectly said I was lying; either to lie or to be ignorant, anyway. That's enough to give me the right to a replica. That's the point, I'm not going to abuse the Rules of Procedure, I'm just saying that you had to give me a replica of Mr. Peric's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32600	I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure unless I gave you the right to a replica. I concluded that, whether the name is mentioned or not, you mistakenly conclude that Mr. Peric meant anything negative. It was a debate between Mr. Peric and the minister. You came in later and, right to tell you, I'm a little surprised. I will give my word to Mr. Peric, who has the right yet. Here you go. I'm sorry, I was wrong. Would you be kind enough to sign up alone?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32601	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I assume you gave me your word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and regarding the replica. Is that right? Yeah. I'm reporting because Mr. Ostojić misread me. Mr Ostojić is a people's messenger who is worthy of man and often gives true information. This time, I have a document that shows absolutely and precisely what the fee for the exploitation of oil and gas in the Russian Federation is. Mr. Ostojić presented the wrong information. This is the place where absolute truth must be told, and according to this, I said how much it amounts, the truth does. I had no intention of entering the controversy at all. Today we have a very important law on the agenda, which is the law on amendments to the Mining Act. This country has a lot of problems to talk about today. We should not go beyond the fact that Serbia will soon enter the visa-free regime, but what after? Let's create preconditions for our citizens to take advantage of that position, not to bring out some lies here. I think Mr. Ostojić accidentally had some data that didn't have the power of absolute truth. I have no intention of further plowing with Mr Ostojic, but I want us always telling the truth in this House and doing as much as possible in accordance with the needs of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32602	Thank you, Mr. Perry. I'll give the line to Mr. Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32603	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. Mr. Perry, I understand your desire not to flaunt with me. I agree with you that this country has a lot of problems, and when it comes to the laws on the agenda, but this country, in addition to those problems it had before, has another problem, for which you and all those who voted in favour of such an energy agreement with the Russian Federation. Mr. Peric, I remind you that we insisted that the Mining Law be changed before this job is finished, because 3% in Serbia is really small. It was a fact-finding Serbian company, so it had 3%. When it's already going into other hands, then we insisted that it be appropriate to the level it is in the world. You're right, 17% is in Russia, but, say, in Great Britain, it's 50%. Why are we funding one side of the company by keeping the mine? Who pays for it in monopoly terms? If there was competition, no one would buy gas at that company. If there were competition, it would not be paid by the citizens of Serbia, but by the company, because it forced competition to lower prices, so it would pay a mine rent greater than 3% anyway, at least as much as it is in Russia. If it's a Russian company, why don't you pay 17%? That's what we suggested before the vote on the energy agreement, but that didn't happen. Then Mr. Skundric tells us, well, through excises. But excises are paid by citizens, and mines are paid by companies that exploit ore wealth. Why should we honor a foreign company, whether it's Russian, American or English (in this case it's Russian)? That's the point, Mr. Perry. That difference is 17%, as much as in Russia, and 3%, as in Serbia, is paid by Serbian citizens. That's the problem. You are right that this country has a lot of problems, but problems in the energy sector, as you can see, because of the vast majority of MPs here, including your parliamentary group, are multiplying. We still pay for the most expensive gasoline, we still have the worst quality, the monopolies continue. That's what Mr. Maras was talking about when Mr. Novakovic misjudged, it's my opinion that he came out of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32604	This circle of replicas is over. I think they've all stood firm in their attitudes. The minister gave an explanation, only possible at the moment. National MP Goran Mihajlovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Siniša Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32605	I will use the time of the authorised representative and the time of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, respected fellow Members, the PUPS Parliamentary Group has, on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Mining Act to Article 5, submitted an amendment that has caused the widest public and professional debate in our country, primarily because of the fact that it deeply affects the relations between local self-government, municipalities and the Republic, which are exposed through the payment of all kinds of compensation for the use of mineral raw materials. This law regulates property and liability relations, including the protection of all forms of property, especially the legal position of economic operators in the system of carrying out certain economic and energy activities, in the protection of the natural environment, in the protection of work, etc., under Article 97(1), point (a), (b) and (c) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I remind all the MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia, that all national property and natural resources can be used by legal and natural persons only under the conditions laid down by law. In particular, Article 84(2) shall apply. The Constitution prohibits the adoption of acts which would allow for the monopolies or uncontrollable dominant position of legal and natural persons with national assets and natural wealth in their entrusted business. From 1990 to 26 April 2004, this established obligation was carried out by hydropower plants and other power plants according to municipalities that suffered the greatest damage by the loss of the processing of quality land, by the loss of citizens' existence through the loss of economic activity such as fishing, shipping, vegetables, traffic, agriculture, etc. The municipalities that are the most affected and which today also suffer huge damages due to the exploitation of water and mineral raw materials for the needs of electricity power systems are Kladovo, Negotin, Majdanpek, Golubac, Velika Gradište, Požarjevac, Smederevo, Grocka, Palilula, Novi Becej, Zrenjanin, Pećinci, Ruma, Vladimirci, Shabac, etc. The charge for the use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity, oil and gas from 1990 to 2007 was paid in monthly amounts of 42,658 dinars, for example, in the municipality of Piroth, up to 3,439,467 dinars in the municipality of Kladovo. We remind the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia that we are allegedly in the process of decentralisation of Serbia and, in particular, in the process of even development, particularly of marginal municipalities. The municipalities of Kladovo, Majdanpek, Golubac, Velika Gradište, as well as others mentioned, on whose territory are the largest economic and especially energy facilities of our country, large taxpayers, have now become marginal, poor and undeveloped municipalities instead of any degree of development. The municipalities listed as eastern Serbian border municipalities have been lagging behind for several geopolitical and internal reasons for decades, with marked depopulation processes suggesting a serious threat in the future. So far, the capacities of eastern Serbia's municipalities, despite the fact that they have the largest energy facilities in our country, have not been able to exploit potential raw materials, whether it is water, coal or oil, in the right way. Instead, there has been the creation of large taxpayers, which are state and public enterprises, while municipalities are allowed to live as they know and can. Depending on always some power centre, without the basic leverage of development in their hands, the municipalities of Southeast Serbia have experienced a difficult demographic and, consequently, economic declination due to lack of regional development policy, a huge exodus and ageing population of the municipalities of southeastern Serbia, as well as their steep economic downturn. For example, only the Kladovo municipality fell from ninth position to 127th, as GDP from 145.4 index points fell to 75.9 compared to the republican average. The PUPS parliamentary group considers that the Ministry and the Government do not now have the right to exclude from the Law on Payment and Guidance of Compensation for the Use of goods of general interest in the production of electricity, oil and gas, i.e. rents, the established obligation to pay compensation, which was not paid by the budgets of competent local self-government, but directly to local communities affected by exploitation. In the era of Serbia's alleged decentralisation, a significant reduction in the transfer funds from the Republic towards municipalities and cities, in the environment of the dismissal of workers from administration and public enterprises, in the context of a significant reduction in the original resources of local self-government through a new set of laws on environmental protection and sustainable development, this law seems to create a difficult impact on the original resources of local self-government, along with hydropower plants, mines and other energy facilities. All this would lead to a significant deterioration in the status of local self-government units and even more difficult payment situations. Is it necessary to say that the lack of income, which solves municipal and infrastructure problems in local communities and local communities, would lead to dissatisfaction and unarticulated reactions of the population, and, in addition, to further adverse consequences that would result from a lack of respect for these decisions. The environmental protection measures in the area of mining are partly regulated in environmental law, and it does not mind that this law also establishes a continued need for protection, primarily during use, after closing the mineral raw materials fields and according to their further use. The fact is that so far, the Republic of Serbia has failed to re-cultivate the exploited fields and force users to bring them into their previous situation, for who knows what reasons. This obligation must not only be established, but finally applied to all users of mineral raw materials. In view of the fact that mineral raw materials are consumer wealth and are not a renewable category, in our opinion, it is necessary that this law determines the correct and regular approach to the removal resulting from the suspension of the exploitation of certain mineral raw materials. All amendments, submitted by different political groups, have served, i.e. they should serve precisely to make use of the inevitable human resources in the right way. It should be borne in mind that today the Đerdap hydropower plant, for example, produces about 7,154 gigabyte hours of electricity, which is still among Europe's 100 most successful economic facilities, and that, based on the rent from hydroelectric kilowatt-hours of all municipalities, it should be paid all around 300 million kilowatt hours, which is funny compared to this large income. Thirty-six municipalities of Southeastern Serbia, as well as municipalities in other parts of Serbia, where the country's important energy facilities supported the amendment, because it significantly reflects the position of the marginal municipalities. It would be logical for this amendment to be supported by the Republic. Dear Minister, if you declare this amendment to the new energy law, which is an announcement, and thereby return the rent to the poorest, marginal municipalities of Serbia, the poorest citizens in local communities, then you send a nice, clear and long-awaited message – correcting the injustice and returning the rent to those who have lost their country, no interest and no income. Their dignity and their right to existence is restored to a worthy man. Mr. Minister, we believe in you, we believe in your actions, we know that you are very responsible for the execution of the planned and agreed and on behalf of the citizens of 36 municipalities from eastern Serbia, I ask that the rent be regulated as the law promotes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32606	Thank you, Mr. Stamenkovic. I apologize, Mr. Skundric, before I give you my word, just one word, so the MPs and ministers can plan the time. On the basis of Article 85, I will continue my work and after 16.00 hours, until the end of the debate on the point on the agenda. We'll have a break after the debate is over. I expect it'll be 1400 hours. We won't start until 4:00, due to the minister's commitment to the cabinet's budget session. I hope you understand. The word is Mr. Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32607	I really appreciate the suggestions you made on your behalf and on behalf of the municipalities and local communities. I have to say that the question of water use compensation in hydropower plants, as well as the cost of electricity production, is not the subject of this law. That's what the Water Act regulates. From the value of kilowatt-hour, two and a half percent is charged for hydroelectric energy produced and 1.25% per kilowatt hour for thermal power plants and about 1.2 dinars for the exploitation of table water per litre. I believe that your proposal should be considered in the context of the existing Water Act and in the context of the adoption of a new energy law and found a rational and fair solution in relation to the region you spoke of and in general in relation to the exploitation of water and other goods in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32608	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Verica Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32609	Mr. Novakovic, article 27 obliges you to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and I would ask you to do so. You were just talking about article 85 and you said that you were extending time after 4:00 a.m. on the basis of article 85, and then you said that we would start the afternoon work no earlier than 4:00 p.m. A member of 85 says we work regularly until 6:00 p.m. It can be exceptional after 1800 hours, if the president declares the justified reasons for extending the work that day. First of all, we haven't heard any valid reasons. Secondly, we really don't understand where you got your commitment to keep us informed that we'll be working after 4:00. This parliament usually works regularly until 6:00 p.m., and only exclusively after 6:00 p.m. Is it a breach of the Rules of Procedure or maybe I didn't understand you, but you certainly said this. I don't think we have the same Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32610	Thank you. That's why I asked in the end if we understood each other, because I thought I got involved when I was explaining, so I'm going to try again. Because of the importance of the topic which is the next point (of course, when we have finished this united debate), which is the proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on Association in the Community of Electricity, and the necessary presence to move to the next point, the presence of Deputy Prime Ministers and Minister of Interior, Police Minister Mr Dacic, we will begin the afternoon work after 1600 hours. I extended my work after 6:00 p.m., by discussing a point that's on the agenda at that point. I suppose it's an amendment to the Law on the validity of travel documents. I'm sorry. Are you satisfied with this explanation, if we understand each other now? There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32611	I am pleased that you yourself have admitted that you have not spoken in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that you have become entangled, etc. Given that I am and that we Serbian radicals are really legalists, I just wanted for the public's sake, so that citizens don't get the impression that we only work till 4:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32612	I never doubted that it was legalism. Ms. Jovanovic has also advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32613	On the basis of Article 31, as one vice president, who should be helping you in your work. Here, I have now consulted with my colleague Popovic, but without it, Article 85, paragraph 6. Mr. Novakovic, an amazing practice has been introduced here, which you have not introduced, but, I think, Gordana Komic. So, never this article in the previous Rules of Procedure, here, since 2001, it may have been some other member, I can't remember, but it's identically prescribed, it never happened... It used to be hours from 10:00 to 5:00, and it was extended to 6:00 in 2001. So, in the last month or two months, it happens, Mr. Novakovic, that you futuristically, so to speak, perform; that is, you, and Gordana Comic and President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic say, usually at this time – we will extend to the one on the agenda. It wasn't the meaning of Rules of Procedure and Article 85 of Article 6 but the situation if we, for example, have an amendment and an addition to the Law on Travel Documents, that's the point that should be when Minister Dacic comes, then the moment we start that debate, it's now 15.55 or 15.30 and you see that it's not enough time to finish by 18 hours, you can start the debate on that agenda point to say. You can't go ahead and say what's going to happen and whether it will. After all, it is also impossible for this member of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I insist that within the presidency of the National Assembly... Although not at all a colleague of Judith, not me, nor a colleague of Obradovic, you ask nothing, because you are divided and you have your lobby. This is really unacceptable. You can't do this at all. Now Gordana Comic would refer me to the general secretary of the National Assembly, who does not exist, but there is a secretary, and that is Mr. Odalovic. Give me, please, an explanation of how it's possible that you...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32614	Thank you. I'm just doing my duty. Article 85(6), which you have called upon, clearly states that the chairman is obliged to inform the Assembly, if he will be... He's at this point due to continued work. I suggested that the break would be up to 16 hours. Exactly, if we were to meet here at 4:00, the work couldn't be extended, and that's that justifiable reason. Miss Jovanovic, if you are not satisfied, the Assembly will be very happy to declare this injury in the voting day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32615	Not only does the Assembly declare itself, but I demand that we get an authentic interpretation of this member. I ask that this smart Konstantinovic appear, as chairman of the Administrative Board, because he does not allow MPs to resign, because I am telling you that this is the first time in this assembly, believe me, that someone is doing it in advance, for some point that will be. It has never happened to any chairman of the Assembly, from Unkovic to today, until you moved, you, Slavica and Gordana Komic, to interpret the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32616	Thank you. The assembly will declare in the voting day, and your question with a stenogram will be addressed to the Administrative Committee, not to the Secretary-General. Thank you very much. To Article 8... We're going back to the agenda. Thank you for your help, because we've cleared this up. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, who has a word. Here you go, Mr. Sluzzard.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32617	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8 paragraph 3 to point 6) as amended and read: "The act of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry Affairs in the planning of exploitation on agricultural and forest land". The amendment also covers forest land in addition to agricultural land. We believe that our amendment makes sense, because the mineral resources are located on agricultural land and also on forest land; there may be deposits below, that I do not list, water and ice surfaces. That's why this amendment of ours we're proposing that it be incorporated into the law, related to forest land as well. As far as the mineral deposits are concerned, they are under forest land in Serbia, and you know it mostly. I know that all the mineral treasures in Frusch Mountain, Avali, Bathalnik and Mine are under forest land, and because of these allegations, we believe that our amendment should be accepted. All forest masses are rich in mineral wealth. You, in the government's explanation, have said that the obligation to remove the company in the process of obtaining approval for exploitation is to deliver and agree with the competent ministry when it comes to forest land. This comment was not in practice brought to life. For example, a higher interest, a mine of stone spreads and as such has to gain consent, and it is located beneath forest land. What do you mean, solve it? Which ministry will approve? Of course, the Ministry of Forestry. You've mostly mapped all the mineral treasures in Serbia so far. This information knows only a small number of people, who in some future time will provide themselves with a comfortable life at the expense of this information. Today there are no more secrets for science where it is. Still, ordinary people who own these forest areas, where they are devastated and degraded forests, don't know that. We know that in Serbia today at the Ministry of Mining and Energy and elsewhere in key places there are a number of various white-world geologists, who go around Serbian mountains and map, through the GPS system, map details on the site. What are you doing as a ministry with these people? As far as I know, nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32618	Thank you, Mr. Sluzzard. It's 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. The government and the Industry Committee accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antić and Dragan Colic. The word is Mr. Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32619	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, Serbia – SNS, honourable MPs, Mr. Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antic and I have submitted an amendment to the article. 14. The basic motivation to submit our amendment is to delete the article. 14. I have no illusion, as an SNS MP, that this bill has hit its goal, its purpose, and that in this sphere, energy spheres, it can make some improvement for many people who are interested, the most miners and members of their families. Because who in the country of Serbia would now be interested in the state of energy and listen to the story of mines and mine problems, about the government's relationship, or MPs of the National Assembly towards them? You know who might be interested - people who are genetically bound, whose grandfather, grandfather, father worked in a mine and whose neighborhoods there are no other options, but, behold, these Serbian poor people and all the people who live there have no other possibilities for existence, but to work in a mine. That is why this issue is of great importance to them. In Article 33 following Article 1, point 2 is added, which reads as follows: ‘Extremely from the position of the 1st member, the technical control of the mining project developed by the organisational part of the public undertaking may be carried out by another organisational part of the public undertaking’. I believe, and so do my colleagues, that it is illusory that the technical control of the project is performed by the same legal person who made it, because that is the idea of technical control. If technical control of the project is envisaged for any level of design, in any branch and any state, it is never done by the legal person who created the project. Various malfeasances are possible and one irregularity can cause another. I know that there is an explanation, and I know that Mr. Minister has an adviser who in every situation will provide certain information; you, Mr. Minister, will, to me, to the public and the citizens of Serbia, to provide this information, but that is one moment, and applying the law in practice can lead to inexplicable consequences, so I would like to say one thought to Duško Radovic: "How sad the collection makes me laugh so much at the explanation." I have my doubts that this bill has some vision of the future, that whoever wrote it was looking ahead. I think it threatens that you, Mr. Minister, have denied (I would be extremely happy, as would my entire Serbian Progressive Party, so to speak), closing the mine with underground exploitation. I don't think there's any more noble profession than a miner's job. There are many occupations that are eroded with a threat to the lives of those who do this job, but indeed, the work of miners and get down several hundred meters into the worker requires both courage and something else. What would I ask of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a National MP? To help the government see the situation. I believe that you, Mr. Minister, are a serious man, with great experience in both life and politics and that the government can do much, much more seriously, together with you, to get to work, to talk to these people, to hear them. I think that the life of miners and the life of mine cannot be seen just as theoretically in one of the ministerial cabinets, but should go down there, get to know the conditions, get to know people, and hear those fat faces, garrets, who are with what they do for Serbia, for the citizens of Serbia, and for their colleagues really at a great existential risk. Whether it is the interest of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or it is a monopoly on this very important sphere of society, it will show time, but I would like, both as a man and as a carrier of this responsible folk function, that you are right to say that the government does not want and that there is no intensity to shut down mines, especially mines with underground exploitation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32620	Thank you. Six minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Industry tabled an amendment to Article 15. The government has accepted the amendment. There's no answer for word. National MPs Jelena Budimirov, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Dragan Colic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Zoran Antic and Zoran Babic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32621	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with colleagues from the Prosperity Group, Serbia-SNS, I have tabled an amendment that provides for the removal of Article 16. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. Article 16 is, in my opinion, a key member of this bill, which you greatly reduce the length of time and simplify the procedure for opening mines. The worst part is, you've ruled out the possibility of a later mine reopening. Who does that suit, Mr. Minister? You, on the one hand, are demanding that Serbian citizens do a project for the smallest bit, if they make a leftover for wood or an assembly garage for a car, for all to provide for the obligation to design projects, and therefore additionally burdening the citizens of Serbia, while, on the other hand, in Article 16, you remove the obligation of the companies of the exploiting rights bearer to do the main project on the closure of the mine, which will precisely define all the necessary parameters for eventually re-opening the mine. Mines can be preserved at some point unfavourable for exploitation, until they create suitable conditions to reopen, and there's nothing controversial about it. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia, by means of such a bill, and in particular Article 16, did not foresee it even as a possibility. That means once the mine closes, it's closed for exploitation for all time. Your own desire not to define parameters for eventually reopening mines at my place, but with other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is doubtful that you, with such a bill of law, will have some abandoned mine shafts ready to deposit radioactive waste. Since the law did not provide for canned mines to be reused, you have left the possibility of these mines becoming a dump in Europe, thereby further jeopardising human health and the quality of the environment. I think as a state and as a people in 1999 we were planted with various radioactive bombs so that we would have to give up our mines now to become a dump of various radioactive waste. The provisions of the Mining Act which are prescribed environmental protection and recovery measures to ensure the life and health of people and property here are, I doubt, only pro-forms, because as long as there is no legal possibility for closed and preserved mines to be reopened, you are opening up the possibility that these mine shafts are subsequently being misused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32622	Thank you, Mr. Granny. One minute from the parliamentary group. National MPs Jelena Budimirov, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Dragan Colic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Zoran Antic and Zoran Babic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antić and Dragan Colic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32623	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 22, and we are asking that it be deleted because this proposal puts the entrepreneur in a privileged position compared to other economic operators, because Article 22 provides for multiple sentences for entrepreneurs for the same offences compared to penalties provided for by companies. For the same violations, the company is fined between 300,000 and 300,000 dinars, and the entrepreneur between 50,000 and 500,000 dinars. In the second case, the company is punished by a fine ranging from 100,000 to 200,000 dinars and by an entrepreneur from 5,000 to 200,000 dinars. It is clear that this much favouring of one type of economic operator is unacceptable to another. Why is anyone favoring each other in the first place? Why isn't there a smaller range? Where does this range in those penalties hit one drastically, and the other not to notice? As well as fellow MPs who took part in the submission of this amendment, I have no illusion that it will be accepted, but once again I am taking the opportunity to express the justified concern of stopping in the field of energy, especially where the exploitation in the underground spear is said to be. I am concerned about the fate of 4,000 miners; if each mining family has four members, it is about 16,000 Serbian citizens who are concerned about their existence. Your statement today in this debate, that you have no intention of what I'm talking about, can encourage and hope that's how it will be done. I almost watched a show on TV where a mine in Alexinz was shown. We all know there's been a terrible tragedy there, that over a hundred miners have lost their lives and that mine hasn't worked in years. But that mine has a guard. They showed a man who kept it there. When they asked him what he was doing, he said - I'm worried about it, there's something to steal, there's more equipment there, so I have to keep it safe. Despite these terrible tragedies, in the eyes of these people, it is seen that they and how they want the mine to work, if at all possible, because in that area, Serbia is almost nothing else. They're almost genetically bound to work, to the life of those mines because other incomes don't have. Their courage and pride are great to continue to work and fight as their fathers, grandfathers, grandfathers fought. I hope that I am wrong about many things, because I have a wish, I hope the same as you, that in this sphere there is security and hope for a better tomorrow for some 16,000 citizens of Serbia who are strictly connected to this and whose existence depends on the seriousness of the accession of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32624	Thank you, Mr. Cholic. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. ) Mr Skundric, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32625	I will briefly say that it is justified that MPs are taking care of the energy sector as a vessel for the Serbian industry and the Serbian economy, but I must also remind you that more projects have been launched in the last year and a half in the energy sector than in the last 15 years and that Serbian energy is now entering its most creative period in the last twenty or thirty years. If we start from revitalisation of hydroenergy facilities, to raising new lignite-based capacities, if we start from revitalization of Bor, which we are seriously working on, to the opening of new lignite spears, etc., then we will see that indeed this government and this ministry in the last year and a half pay full attention to the energy sector and with great responsibility refer to the tasks ahead of this sector and to the needs of this society when it comes to energy. We really have a chance to become a leader in energy and energy production in the region in the next five or seven years, I believe in that deeply, indeed. That is why I call on you to vote for amendments to the Mining Act, because by voting these amendments and supplementing the Mining Act, it will create conditions for a more rational and efficient business in the mining sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32626	Thank you, Mr. Skundrich. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 20th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Association in the Community of the Yugoslav Elektroprivreda (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Dusan Marić and Vjerica Radeta on the draft law. You received a report from the Committee on Industry and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. It would be better with a card, because we'll hear you less. Just sign in. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32627	Thank you. This is a confirmation that SRS MPs are responsible for their parliamentary obligations and that they have strict respect for the Rules of Procedure. Unlike some members of the ruling parties who had the practice of leaving MP cards in their units, SRS MPs take out their cards, so sometimes what has happened to me now happens. I have submitted an amendment to a member, which reads: "On the day of the entry into force of this law of law, obligations, resources, documentation, cases and employees of the Southern electricity community, the Public Enterprise of the "Electroprivred of Serbia", Belgrade and the Public Enterprise of the "Electro Network of Serbia", Belgrade... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” I've been reading this text carefully, and I think there's one concept missing here, which is -- immovable property. With my amendment, I suggested that this term be inserted – immovable property. The government has rejected this amendment, with reasons – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the term "funds" covers real estate and movable things. The government is partly right, however, I also spoke with certain language experts, with lawyers, they still agree that the SRS is right and that this member of the law would be clearer if the amendment were accepted. For example, theoretically and hypothetically, the community of the Yugoslav electricity industry was able to access certain properties, land, fields, pastures, or anything that could really be difficult under the means of electricity. There is absolutely no reason not to accept this amendment. Mr. Minister, not because it is my amendment, but if you do not accept this amendment, you have given the right to those who claim that in this assembly many useful, good and logical amendments to the opposition, the Serbian Radical parties are not accepted, although they would improve the law, only because they come from the MPs of the SRS. I really don't see any logical explanation why this amendment, which would give a certain quality and explain this member of the law, would not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32628	Thank you, Mr. Maric. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP, Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32629	Thank you. We are talking about the draft law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity, I am reading part of the explanation of the proposal for this law relating to Article 2. The argument given by the Government is said: “Article 2. The bill laid down the legal traceability of the Community of Yugoslav Electricity, so that the rights, obligations, assets and other assets, employees and documentation are taken over by the Public Enterprise of the "Electroprivred of Serbia", Belgrade and the Public Enterprise "Electro Network of Serbia", Belgrade, in accordance with the agreement on how to take over rights, obligations and resources, documentation and employees of the Yugoslav Electricity Community, which concluded the Public Enterprise of "Electroprived Serbia", Belgrade, on February 20th and the Public Enterprise of the "Electro Network of Serbia", Belgrade, on 14 February 2007. “ What does this mean? This means that the proposal for this law is only formally before parliament, that it is necessary only to vote, minority and without debate, the termination of the law on association in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity, because in fact this community does not exist. Not only formally, because there is no longer a Yugoslav state, unfortunately, but also because, according to this 2007 agreement, there is neither property nor assets, there is nothing related to the Community of Yugoslav Electricity. We could ask the government why since 2007 (this is not at your address, Mr. Skundric) this has been stuck somewhere in the drawer and why is this formality not finished before? That really is a question. Then we get it as a bill of law, and then this will get into that group of laws, when you boast about how many laws this Parliament has passed, and you will say, and this law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electro-Employment. Of course, first you destroyed Yugoslavia, then Serbia-Montenegro, then the electricity industry, and then you need to regulate it here by law. Why did we intervene with the amendment? It is here proposed that this law enter into force on the eighth day of the day of its publication in the Official Messenger. This is a formulation from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 196(3), but the Constitution provides for certain exceptions, where there are reasonable reasons for some law to enter into force before the deadline laid down in Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This government is very often playing tricks on the Constitution and every time the government is in a teat, when parliament delivers a bill because it's the last day, as we voted last night three hours before there would be chaos in the judiciary, it often happens (Today we will have a law on travel documents, etc.) that the representatives of the Government offer us a return-application of some laws and then completely unjustly abuse Article 196. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Just to distract the public and the government of the Republic of Serbia that this member of the Constitution, with this exception, exists just to regulate certain things that constitute an exception... We didn't expect you to adopt this amendment, but we still don't see why you didn't. Why is it a problem to print this in the official messenger and take off one ballast? What community of Yugoslav electricity? Where's that? He's gone. Then why not remove it from the agenda as soon as possible by accepting the amendment and saying that the conditions laid down in Article 196(3) have been met. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? That's right, this needs to come in as soon as possible, so we don't fool ourselves into having a community of Yugoslav electricity when we don't have it. You did not accept this and you said that the amendment is not accepted for reasons that there are no particularly justified reasons for the earlier entry into force, in accordance with Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If this isn't a particularly valid reason, then I really don't know what it is. A particularly justified reason for you, for example, was last night, when you came back and tried not to discuss at all proposals for the Supreme Court of Cassation President, for the state prosecutor, for prosecutors in Serbia's primary and senior prosecutors, on a new network of courts and prosecutors... There were such ideas from the ruling majority that we would not discuss it at all, but only to vote, that we had confidence in Bosko Ristic, Snezana Malovic and other members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary or the State Council of Prosecutors. He was already waiting for the official messenger to be prepared, just waiting for the buttons to be pressed here, to vote on the government's proposals, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors and the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. He was already waiting for the official messenger ready, so you could also prepare this, that is, to let it be published and to remove this ballast. So, this amendment is, Mr. Skundric, only to draw your attention from the government that the Constitution exists and that all norms exist to be used, and not to be abused, depending on when it is the interest of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to hide some of its missed deadline, its dissatisfaction, its impunity, by misusing this member of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32630	Seven minutes and twenty seconds total, and five minutes from time... In the words of the Vice-President of the Natasa Jovanovic Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32631	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I will use this amendment by Mrs. Radete, who has given an argument why you do not immediately approach the member of the Constitution and the termination of the validity of this law, which really exists pro-forma, but I will leave the time to end Mr. Sreto Peric, who is our authorised representative. Namely, Mr Skundric, since we are talking about this law and the fact that there is no longer a state union, nor SRJ, this law has been a long time ago, then this is a good opportunity for us MPs to ask you, given that you took over this portfolio a year and a few days ago, and that in the Elektroprivred of Serbia, there have been many problems since 2000, especially in the time of that great affair of robbing of the Elektroprivreda by the mafia-Tikun clan Hamović - Lazarevic, that still the epilogue of that robbery, amounting to 400 to 600m euros, as it was necessary for the Assembly to confirm on the basis of the report of the Ankara Committee, which was chaired by Aleksandar Vucic, who later betrayed the SRS precisely because he directly connected with tykums such as Hamovic and Lazarevic... We MPs didn't have that report at the vote, and in the meantime, I said that when the debate was in principle, the inspectors who filed criminal charges against those responsible in the EPS were quickly moved to other jobs, I think a gentleman was retired. These are very serious issues, which torture not only the employees of Serbia's Elektroprivred, but all Serbian citizens. Where's the EPS going? Do the government of Serbia and you as the minister now entrusted to that portfolio have any strategy? First, will the EPS continue to hold this monopoly position? We Serbian radicals have since we have been programmed, and so for 20 years, and we do not want, like many other countries, EU countries, such as France or the Czech Republic, to privatise the Elektroprivreda. We are explicitly defined for having a strategic partnership with friendly countries here who want to bring their capital to build new thermal and hydropower plants, as is the case with Mr Konuzin's statement, which we talked about this morning, to come to this very position to use our capacities and resources, primarily for people working in the EPS, for Serbia to be in this region one of the exporters of electricity, and not for us to be re-emerged by some Hamovics and Lazarevics, as was the case four years ago. The employees of Elektroprivred, who asked me to address you as well as when the debate was in principle, are very concerned that nothing is done in this regard. This statement by Mr. Konuzin about good intentions is only the basis, but the state must show more will, above all, to create normal market conditions for it and to allow them to appear on our market as investors. Not to repeat again about the Gerdapa I remount and the fact that it will be invested, I have the exact number, 105.511.390 dollars, so the experts calculated. Maybe the number's bigger or smaller, anyway, but whatever, it's the intention of our potential Russian partners. I will end this issue with a memorandum signed by Boris Tadic, again for campaigning or for his promotion, then even the minister was from the DSS; it is a memorandum with German RWE, I think it was more than three years ago. What kind of epilogue is it, given that it was then presented to the citizens of Serbia, until we signed a gas deal with the Russians, as a pandan of what we in the gas sphere are going to do with our Russian partners, for the benefit of the state and the people? Thank God we did that. But it was just a letter of intent and everything else that was provided for in that memo is, as well as the letter of "Fiyat", on a long stick. I wonder why that was necessary at that point. Does the Government of the Republic of Serbia still want to define itself tenently as one of the partners, say the Germans, and not the Russians? What is your position on this matter? Do you have a consensus within the Serbian government? What will continue to happen in the process of restructuring the Elektroprivreda in order to reduce losses, which are the most common and the largest in the transmission from high voltage to the low voltage network, and because of the other problems the EPS has? To remind you of that too – you were not a minister at the time, and at the time an SPS official, you could have followed it, although for a time you had withdrawn from active politics – that this arrangement with the Germans (later followed that Tadic's memorandum with them) began the moment that Bozidar Djelic, because of the loans he made with them, with an unfavourable 20% interest in buying goods from the RWE, owed us 30m euros. It was the first loan, and later on, the Serbian government granted guarantees even for the remont of the Elektroprivrede, even for much higher amounts. We should tell Serbian citizens that they are paying the remont with that amount of 186 dinars in an account they receive every month. Thank you. I'd like to ask you, if you can, to answer any of these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32632	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32633	First of all, I would like to invite you to pass this law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity, because it does not exist anymore. Why hasn't it been done a few years ago, I'm leaving someone else to conclude. As far as the issues are concerned, I think the entire Serbian public is aware of my position on the privatisation of the EPS. I think it's the largest national treasure the state has and that the state must not allow any moment in the capital structure to be below 51%. I think it is a general position that has been reached both at the government level and at the level of the Republic of Serbia's summit and there is no dilemma. As far as electricity is concerned, I have to cheer you up, if you want to accept it as a fact, that since I came to the head of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, we haven't imported electricity and that this year we've been net exporters of electricity. These are facts, regardless of the conditions in which the electricity sector operates. With regard to the memorandum you mention, I do not know that President Tadic signed any memorandum, because I do not think it is possible. What I know, and what happens at a time when I am Minister and in coordination with all of us in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and also with the Ministry of Mining and Energy, is the fact that the EPS signed a memorandum of understanding with the RWE, which has no legal obligation, but the protocol between the two companies that will determine on the basis of study analyses whether there is a common interest in the strategic partnership in the exploitation of hydropotentials, related to Đerdap III, the reversible hydrocentre and the hydropotential of Great Morava; also, related to the above Drina, the hydropotential of the upper Drina. Therefore, it is not an agreement between the two states, it is a memorandum, a letter of intent or a protocol between the two companies. I think Serbia has clearly defined itself as having strategic partnerships in the field of energy. One of those is with the Russian Federation in a gas-oil arrangement. The second is with the Republic of Italy, concerning the use of renewable energy sources in installed capacity of about 1,000 megawatts, signed 10-15 days ago at a meeting of representatives of the two governments, the Republic of Italy and Serbia, in Rome. Thirdly, strategic partnerships are possible through the implementation of tender procedures related to the construction of TA "Nikola Tesla" and "Colubare B", where we have partners, companies that are ready if the tender procedure ends in a positive way, and I believe they will, to enter into a strategic partnership with the Elektroprivred Serbia. This will not endanger the majority ownership of the Republic of Serbia in the EPS. If part of the memo with RWE were to be realized, conditions would also be created for a potential strategic partnership with the German electricity industry, i.e. with the German state. Right now, it's not standing. Therefore, we are seriously defined to preserve majority ownership in Serbia's Elektroprivred, on the one hand, and to build strategic partnerships with relevant companies and countries for which Serbia and Serbia's energy have an interest. I think I was very clear in answering the questions you asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32634	Thank you, Minister. Here you are, Miss Jovanovic doesn't think you understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32635	In the first part, Mr. Minister, I just confirmed what you said. You should not be held accountable for what Boris Tadic did for the purpose of his campaign. Yes, I may have made a lapus, I said - signed, but it was signed by EPS and Germans during his stay in Germany. So, I don't know if you followed it, but it's a clear picture to me, as if it was yesterday. Here, like yesterday, when he went to Brussels and told the citizens that we were on the white Schengen list. Then, when he did so, as he did when he came to Kragujevac, when a memorandum was signed with the "Fiyat", he promised Serbian citizens that Serbia would strategically, on the basis of the letter on the intentions of the two sides, as you said, what is really in that memorandum, to co-operate in the future. All this other stuff is on a long stick. Therefore, I did not want to impute it, but to tell you that the president of the state abused it for daily policy purposes, and that problems in Serbia's Elektroprivred years later were continued. If the situation is now calming or quieting down, it is for the sake of both the Elektroprivreda and the citizens of Serbia. I would like your opinion and your commitment to not just handing the Elektroprivreda into someone's hands is a consensus of this government, which we Serbian radicals don't believe, but we'll see what happens in the future. The way and model of how prices are formed, the tariff system that was established when you were not a minister, which is in one part and anti-constitutional, the way in which you determine who is in which zone and how you go from one limit of kilowatt-hour to another, are nevertheless topics for another debate. I wanted to give this clarification that I said that Boris Tadic then deceived the public in signing only one memorandum, which is actually a letter of intent and essentially does not mean anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32636	The word is Mr. Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must say that you cultivate a manner that the MPs of the SRS respect - you are present all the time as we talk about what is on the agenda. For us Serbian Radical Party MPs there are no non-essential topics; there are more important but there are no non-essential ones. That's what we're showing right now. You come to this Parliament with a number of teams, where you can react at any moment to what the MPs tell you. You deserve respect. But, on the other hand, the list of ZES – of over a hundred MPs who won the elections, is now present only counterpart Bajram Šehovic, which is certainly commendable, suggests there are fewer, or absolutely irrelevant, MPs. Mr. Chairman Nikola Novakovic, member of the G17 Plus, if he had someone to replace him, he might not be there either. It doesn't matter that much now. There is something, Mr. Minister, that we must say, that we do not agree with you, we are not in agreement – I simply cannot believe that the amendment submitted by Mrs. Veronica Radeta... We have received countless government proposals requiring a certain legal act to come into force within a short period of time than the Constitution provided for. If once objectively and based on the Constitution there was a reason to accept it, it is now. There have been other amendments you haven't found appropriate to accept, but it's politics. I suppose from today you'll be taking a lot more care of the complex situation in the mining sector. I'm not saying that you haven't done this before, but I think that the story of the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, which is not based on the simple reading of the legal proposals, is just based on the conversation with people who actively participate in the sector and where the help of the ministry that you are handling and how necessary... Try next year, as you promised, that the price of electricity will remain unchanged, if possible. If it has to change, make it the lowest possible percentage. I just said that Serbia's entry into the visa-free regime doesn't necessarily mean much. If there are no conditions for travel, if there are no conditions for a modest and decent life, then the possibility that someone travels does not mean much. The government can make a regulation, or this parliament, that citizens have the right to buy car stamps "mercedes", but if there is not enough funds for it, then such a decision, such a regulation does not mean much in itself. So what happened yesterday in Brussels, i.e. a recommendation (we hope that it will soon be official), if this government is no longer working in the interest of the citizens, it will not mean much. There is little doubt that none of these amendments that we have explained today were acceptable to you, although you are under the instructions that you agree with what we are saying, but you do not want it to be accepted. It is not important for us to know that we have submitted the amendment, it is important that through the law it contributes at least a little to the better life of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32638	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Petar Skundric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32639	I would like first of all to ask the MPs to speak about the fact that they are all, including the President of the Republic. The president of the Republic was also present at the signing of the gas-naphtha agreement and contributed significantly to the establishment of a strategic partnership between the Russian Federation and Serbia. It has also contributed significantly to establishing a partnership between the Republic of Italy and Serbia. I don't think it should be mentioned, he was on one, and the other one forgets he was. I think all that was happening was in the interest of the Republic of Serbia, that it was serious partner relations between our country, the Russian Federation and other countries. As for the debate we've been having, I'm grateful for all the objections that have been made. We listened very carefully, and in the day of decision-making, we will definitely declare all the objections you've had here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32640	Thank you. I hereby conclude the review of the draft law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. This is where we finished our morning work. I'm interrupting the session. It's 4:00 p.m. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32641	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to inform you before we move to the 21st point of the agenda, that part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly will be followed by members of the delegation of the Self Help Group of people living with HIV, and that: Mr Nenad Pribac, Uros Vukinić, Igor Kamberović, Violeta Angelkovic, Boris Kovacic, Carlo Boras, Dejana Ranković and Momcilo Janjic. Please welcome them. Let me remind you that today, December 1st, is the world's fight against the side. [[Applause]] Official statistics say that in Serbia about 2,000 people, and of them today I am informed that the number is formally 2,300, living with HIV. However, it has been estimated that more than 20,000 citizens of our country live with HIV. In the initiative of JAZAS Youth, half of this year, an informal HIV-AIDS parliamentary group has been educated in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is tasked with the new laws we adopt in line with the needs of a social group of persons living with HIV. This is a moment to remind ourselves that in our environment living people whose rights are unjustly threatened by their current health status. It is not a small group of citizens and they also need our help to improve the current situation for co-existence with all other Serbian citizens. In a sign of solidarity and commitment to solving this social problem, today we wear this red ribbon as a symbol of hope that one day a cure for this disease will be found. I would also like to inform you that I am in accordance with Article 88(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the search in particular of the 21st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents, called for the sittings to be attended by Mr Milorad Todorovic, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Predrag Maric and Slobodan Nedeljković, Assistant Minister of Interior and Zorica Loncar-Kasalica, Head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior. Since the government session has just begun, Mr. Dacic will be joining us in a moment, so I suggest we get started. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Let's wait for the minister. Don't use that sort of thing. ) Mr Todorovic, I have suggested and I have the impression that the largest number of MPs accept the proposal. The associates are here. The minister will join in any moment. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Let's vote. You can't go past the Rules of Procedure. ) We move to the 21st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on Road Corrections (Statistics) The representatives of the Government are here. The minister will be in any minute. Mr. Dragan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32642	On the basis of Article 27. I really don't understand, Mrs. Dejanovic, why you're doing this. We waited till 4:00, we'll keep waiting. Although, you know that even before we left, you didn't read all those you invited to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You've invited representatives of the Ministry of the Interior of the Ministry of Interior. Regardless of their high positions in the ministry itself, only representatives of the government, or ministers, can come to the RS Assembly. Mrs Dejanovic, don't, for the sake of Serbian citizens, for the Parliament's sake, abuse your position in this way and avoid doing what is normal to do. We've talked about this a lot. We're speaking here with a government official, with a minister, and I've prepared myself... (President: Mr. Todorovic, you convinced me. I had no doubt. You're a reasonable person.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32643	We'll continue at 4:30. I honestly don't think you're right, but in order to stay out of the way, we'll continue at 4:30. [[After break – 16.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the 21st point of the agenda - a bill amending the Law on travel documents. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Jorvanka Tabaković and Gordana Pop-Lazic on the bill. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Radeta, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32645	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs from the opposition and you two-three from the ruling coalition, this really has to be said for public reasons, it's not this bill on travel documents formalities, although there are only two members. This is a law that needs to be discussed very seriously. Before that, we should remind ourselves that we changed this law, the Law on travel documents, on December 31st 2008, minors before midnight. At the time, the media was full of stories about how, if someone did not vote for the law, Serbian citizens would be in a situation that they could not travel for Christmas and New Year's holidays, that those who are in the white world could not come to the country. The SRS was then tried for the possible non-compliance of the law. Then of course, as we are now, we intervened with amendments to this bill, but we voted in favour of amendments and additions to that law. Of course, not in any way to support the government of the Republic of Serbia, but to tell Serbian citizens that we Serbian radicals are working really in the interests of Serbian citizens and that it was in the interest of Serbian citizens to pass the law. Of course, government should have been given all the criticisms she deserved because of the fact that Serbian citizens were in a situation that last day last year they could not travel because the government was not up-to-date enough and because it was not doing its job. When we intervened with the amendment to that law, we proposed that the deadline for the issue of biometric passports be moved. The government's proposal was on June 30th 2009, and we suggested that it be the end of 2009, i.e. the beginning of 2010, because we knew that the government was incompetent and that their request for the extension of the Law on Travel Documents, or that deadline, was, in fact, no formality, but that the government was not prepared to do the job that was expected of it. Then we talked, as well as in the principle debate on this bill, about everything that preceded the fact that we today have problems with biometric passports. We mentioned, we wanted the public to hear the fact that in July 2008, the issue of passports began, that passports were made in a Slovenian company called "Miraž" and that these passports were sent around the world to border crossings, where necessary, to determine whether these passports were in line with standards, so that they could cross borders. You know very well that there were big problems, that some citizens were brought back from the border, that they couldn't cross with those passports, because the passports were in a certain way pheasant. In the principle debate, we asked you, Mr Dacic, (we hope you came with that data today) who concluded that contract with the Slovenian company "Miraž" to work those passports. As we asked you why passports don't work at the Ministry of the Interior, why passports are being worked in the Coin of Money; is it possible that the Government, as part of the Government, is unable to do this job that has long been prepared, both in technical and technological terms. But obviously it's not like that. We're in front of one big problem again. You know, Mr. Minister, that this problem exists. You today, by extending the deadline for the issue of biometric passports, will put a large number of Serbian citizens in trouble. You know that's right. It was precisely because these biometric passports were sent to all border crossings across the planet and there was a guarantee that by the end of this year these passports would be absolutely in use with every Serbian citizen crossing the border. We do not have such a situation today, and I am asking you – what will happen as a result of the extension of this deadline, how will people who in diplomatic representations, as you said, for some technological reasons, not be able to own a biometric passport, how will these citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, cross the border with what is already a former passport in international communication? Believe me, you're not solving this problem by extending this deadline. It is irresponsibly and irresponsible that you did not do this job first within the time limit provided for in the basic law, and it is particularly irresponsible that you are unable to do so even after the amendments of this article. This article 53, which said diplomatic passports and official passports would be issued before the date of application of this law applies until the deadline set out in the amendment and the longest until 31 December 2009. Now you've extended that deadline to 2010. The order works, so that not only would it be a subject of the government's poor work, the failure of the government in this part, of course not only in this part, but in general, then in this bill you changed Article 1, which actually refers to Article 19 of the basic law. The 19th article says the passport is issued with a ten-year period and persons under the age of 14 with a two-year period of validity. You have now predicted that an extremely high rate of 1st person under the age of 3 years is issued with a three-year period of validity, and persons three to 14 years of life with a five-year period of validity. You wrote that different deadlines for the validity of passports for persons under the age of 14 are proposed for rationalising the cost of production, which is a savings for both the Republic of Serbia and the citizens, while respecting physiological changes in the face at that age, all in order to improve the security of citizens and prevent human trafficking. You say – the proposed solution is already known in parallel legislation. First of all, the proposed cost rationalisation for the Republic of Serbia does not know what it is, and the rationalisation of costs for citizens taking out passports for their children certainly exists. But cost rationalisation must not be put first in relation to a much bigger problem, and that is what you wrote – the safety of citizens and the prevention of human trafficking. Since you already wanted to change this article, we think it should have been arranged the way we predicted it, which means that persons under the age of three are issued a passport with a period of two years, persons from three to 10 years of age with a period of validity of three years and persons from 10 to 15 years of age with a five-year period of validity. We believe that, given the physiological changes in the face at this age, this is an absolutely more appropriate solution. We believe that this amendment should have been accepted, however, you did not because you believe that physiological changes in the face at this age are not enough to justify the purpose of the frequent issue of passports. This is truly amazing, that you think there are no physiological changes in the face of a child between three and 14 years of age. Imagine what drastic changes occur in the physiological appearance of a child between three and 14 years old, and you say that's no reason to change a passport in this sense! You're still saying, this is phraseology, that because of the frequent issue of passports and expenses that would result in citizens and the Republic of Serbia... Citizens are certainly prepared for the cost of issuing passports, i.e. taking passports for their child, if he is a conscious citizen, and he is, that it is the safety of his child when crossing the border and staying abroad. The Republic of Serbia does not have any costs, and if there are, and the Republic of Serbia should probably take care of the security of citizens, as you have formally written in this explanation. You say: “... because the persons of up to three years of life would be issued a passport twice", the persons of up to three years would be issued a passport, we really don’t see where it says it, because it doesn’t say so, “and those up to 10 years three times.” That, of course, is not true. I read clearly what we predicted in our amendment. "In determining the 14-year limit for a shorter period of validity of passports, it was also taken into account that criminal sanctions can only be imposed on persons older than 14 years. In addition, the proposed solution exists in parallel legislation. “ We can accept that the end limit is 14 years old, but this must absolutely change between them. Mr. Minister, surely your presence and this topic of travel documents must be used to ask you why your ministry did not react, at least in a statement, to the fact that a few days ago on state authorities in local self-governments in Presevo and Bujanovac, an Albanian flag was cast? Does celebrating some national holiday of some people, or some minorities, mean that the state authorities of the Serbian state will be bound by flags of states that are in a certain way, so to speak, the home states of those citizens? Of course there's no legal possibility for such a thing and you had to... if Mrs. Komic allows you to listen to me. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to take a stenogram and answer the questions I asked you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32646	Mr. Dragan Shormaz, according to this amendment or as an authorised representative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32647	We feel that this amendment is more concrete and we do not see that there is any obstacle to adoption. Approximately, some things may be more specific. In any case, it had to be done, it was something that was the lack of that law that was passed, which was proposed by the second government of Vojislav Kostunica. In the meantime, we've noticed through application that there's a flaw, and that's why we're changing. That's not controversial. That's why there is a parliament, that's why there are governments, that's why there are experiences, and it's all something that isn't cemented. I must say, at the end of the debate, I wasn't in the O.R. in principle, which the minister noticed, in the stenographic notes, I had other things to do, where the minister called out for being an MP in 1992 and said he was sorry that he couldn't directly respond to those who asked him, because he respected all of you and remained until the end of the debate, which is otherwise a business obligation for you, and for the MPs he didn't. So he remained until the end of the debate: "Here, I will answer in this way. Let's be open and correct to the end. I did not write the Law on travel documents, nor the Law on ID cards, but the previous government of Vojislav Kostunica," which I have now said, "in which there were different political parties, among other things the minister was from the DSS. If that's the case, I'm responsible for what happened from July 7th last year, when I became Home Secretary. When it comes to deadlines, be so correct and say that the first draft law adopted in 2007 provides for the release of new passports in April 2008 and that it ends by 31 December of this year. What are you talking about, was that even real, with what capacities, let's be specific, let's not now... “ etc. You didn't listen to me like you weren't listening. I absolutely didn't mention this for a moment, nor did I slow down; I wasn't even talking to you or the SPS. I was talking about visa liberalisation, about who did what, I was counting, if you remember, and mostly I was talking to the gentlemen of the Democratic Party who were full of the mouth of the European Union, and they didn't actually do anything about it when they were in power. I remind you, since 5 October, in four out of five governments were the majority and the most influential party – or they had government presidents (in three cases), or they had a majority, such as the second government of Vojislav Kostunica, which passed this bill, where the Democratic Party had one minister more than all the others in the government. I really don't know where you recognized it in what I was saying. But what's more important here now, what happened to us, especially since yesterday? In Serbia, practically St. Nicholas's will begin to apply "schengen zone", will begin to apply to us passports, this is what we're working on right now. It is necessary to pass this law, now I say here, that it is necessary to adopt that our citizens who have a blue passport would not suffer, in the sense that they cannot travel because of the inability of this government to replace those passports. Otherwise, I'll read where you said this government was actually guilty, not some previous government that passed that law. You said it yourself on many occasions. When this law was passed you were not in session of the Assembly, you were somewhere on the road, it is seen from the explanation of your MPs who said you were not present, that you are somewhere on the road and that you work for the state. It was said by Mr Zvonimir Stevic, Zarko Obradovic, Rajko Baralic, who praised and supported the law. Mr Rajko Baralic has even criticised and called for confidence in Minister Jocic, and he has no confidence in Minister Sutanovac, with whom you are now sitting. He spoke of the look of passports and hoped that Mr. Jocic's passport would be seen properly. Mr. Zarko Obradovic spoke a lot, I didn't find anything special to say. Mr. Stevic also praised the law, he said, "I also point out that this law is one of the few legal projects that apply to the entire territory of our country, and from this law all rights are used maximum. When I say this first of all, I mean its application in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija." Looks like she's gone, at least as far as "schengen" is concerned yesterday. What else did you say here? "When it comes to who has the right to passports, everyone has the right to passports," we return to yesterday, "all Serbian citizens, regardless of whether they have residence in any part of Serbia. The decision and the European Commission's proposal have not yet made the decision, but the proposal for the decision, which is expected to be made on 30 November this year," it said, "Serbian citizens will be subject to visa liberalisation. All Serbian citizens have the right to a Serbian passport, regardless of their national background and residence, but for Serbian citizens who have their residence and whose passport has been issued in the so-called so-called town. The co-ordination administration will not be subject to visa liberalisation. It's a fact of fact. Am I as Minister or Deputy Prime Minister satisfied with that? No, I don't. In this case, Serbia is not in a position to accept something or not to accept it, it is simply a decision by the European Commission. “ These are your words, and they are quite accurate. What are you saying later? You say it's all in line with Resolution 1244 and you say the same thing during that government was signed a CEFTA Free Trade Agreement, which was also in parliament. "I wasn't in the ruling structure then. So that's the same," you compare the CEFTA agreement and this, as if it were the same, "as it says for visa liberalisation. So it does not apply to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, according to Resolution 1244."I have not seen the text that the European Commission has brought, but it is not the same, because the CEFTA agreement was signed by a representative of Umnik on behalf of that territory, according to Resolution 1244, which is currently, as you know, under international administration. As far as the CEFTA deal is concerned, I don't know how much more anyone will criticise. Our government has now announced that this year a billion euros in Serbia is in surplus trade with CEFTA countries. The only surplus, I repeat, is with the CEFTA states. With all the others, the EU, Russia, the United States, Bangladesh, with whoever you want, we have a minus. Only with CEFTA states are we in surplus, only with them. They're the only ones we do positive business with. And what's wrong with that? What's wrong with criticizing? Undo it, no problem, cancel that deal if it's not good. You said in that speech that there were no other conditions for visa liberalisation, except for four blocks of issues from the road map – the security of documents, the issue of borders, emigration and asylum, the issue of the fight against crime and corruption and the issue of human rights and freedom. "There were absolutely no other additional conditions. It all started a few years ago, at the time of previous Minister Jocic" etc. This is all true, too, but we have a right to doubt, there's been a lot going on. It was necessary, but that's what I told your coalition partners, about the map of the road – the security of documents, borders, migration and asylum, the issues of fighting corruption and crime, human rights and freedoms, etc., those four blocks of issues. But they didn't work on it when they were in power. The government of Vojislav Kostunica worked. I'll talk about it later. I'll count everything again and when it's done. What did they do with it? Nothing. Today we read in the paper that the LDP is responsible for visa liberalisation. Some coalition of yours, if it wasn't for you, wouldn't be there. We all deserve it, so be it, that we all deserve it. I'll read again who's what and how much he's done, let's see, let the citizens figure out who's responsible. It's easy to talk on TV when you don't let the competition be seen. At least there's something you can say about that. It's very important that a man, who deals with politics, always speaks the same way, and stick to what his attitudes are and when he's power and when he's opposition. I had to react because we suspect it wasn't just these four conditions, because other people, above all from the European Commission, said otherwise. We have seen several times, various MEPs, who welcomed us here with "mirdite" etc... From a few mouths, not from one mouth, it's been said that the protocol on co-operation with Eulex, which was signed by someone from your ministry, probably has connections or knows he's working on customs, but he hardly knows police work, but he signed that agreement... He's not anywhere. He's not in public. I reminded you, I asked for September 16th, I didn't get that agreement as an MP. So a lot of EU representatives said the agreement was important for visa liberalisation and was to be signed. The Statute of Vojvodina was also mentioned yesterday, the return-to-application had to be completed and voted on, just the same day as the European Commission made the decision it made. So I'm saying, you said that only these four, are just a map of the road and these conditions that were supposed to be met. But we have the right to suspect that these two conditions also existed, because that's what people from the European Union said first and foremost. Not what the opposition or someone else said, but the people of the EU talked about it. You need to talk about things the way they are. You say this, I have prepared everything when you and what you said: “From 1 November of this year in the Republic of Serbia in the area... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” So, who's to blame for being late for a passport replacement? What does the minister say? "From 1 November of this year," he said in a debate in principle on 18 November 2008, when we first extended the importance of passports, "in the area police administrations only requests for the issue of biometric passports were received, while abroad only then, on 3 November, the reception of these requirements, and only at diplomatic and consular offices in Paris and Dusseldorf. It is interesting that only 142 applications for the issue of new passports in these two diplomatic and consular representations have been accepted since 1 November. As we have said here, technical inabilitys are the reason for delays, above all in diplomatic and consular representations. “ Who is to blame if not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? When we criticise that the government is guilty, you must accept that responsibility. You may not be the name and last name, but you are your colleague, the colleague you support, who you are sitting with today in the government. I guess today you voted on the budget together with him. Who's to blame if it's not this government's fault? You said something else then, however, about what Mrs. Radeta was saying now, it's been a year since then, and nothing has changed. You said this House passed a Law on travel documents in 2007. "In this assembly of parliament, whose member I was and my vote passed the law, which defined the importance of these passports to last until the end of this year. “ That was the next year. "I must tell you that we could not believe in time," you say, "when the law was written, and we have December 27th to bring a resolution to Kosovo and Metohija. “ The last time this parliament discussed it (a little different-looking joke, but it was in this room), the last debate was on Kosovo and Metohija at the time, December 27, 2007. Since then, we have not been able to know how they will behave at a time when this law was written by our coalition partners, who, I recall, were the majority in that government. You say – was it capacity? We believe that it was and we believe that if we had remained executive power, we would have done it in time. We didn't remain executive, what happened happened, elections were called in February. The new executive power, so you didn't honor the deadlines the law provides. And not once, but twice you didn't respect them. You said that Serbian citizens cannot be a slave to someone's ignorance or suffer the consequences of poorly-led politics. "I will banish that in the MUP, both in the National Bank and in the Bank of the Bank of Croatia, I will determine this responsibility, if there is any technical error that will force Serbian citizens to do so in the coming period. “ One year and again you are looking for an extension, and I don’t know that you have found out who is responsible for printing the passport in such a way, that we have had those affairs, which is delayed, and what, for example, our citizens didn’t get passports in time. Who's to blame for something like that? You promised, you said it, you said you'd push it all the way out. You said you'd be out by the end of December 27th, Mr. Minister. Look, if you don't mind. So, December 27th, 2007. These are the stenographic notes. Yesterday something was voted here, in parliament, I remind all MPs. Why is it important to always speak in harmony with your policy, and why is it important to be clear in front of citizens? You say this: "I am saying this because it is unacceptable that at a time when the entire state leadership is talking about all this, Prosecutor Vukcevic says that Ratko Mladic is in Serbia. What kind of knowledge is that? Is Ratko Mladic in Serbia? You're saying it's not. Does this prosecutor know where Ratko Mladic is and why he doesn't tell Mr. Jocic or I don't know who, who he's after right now, so he can get arrested? Why don't you arrest Vukcevic, because by declaring damage to national and state interests, because you convince the whole world that he's not in Serbia, not me, I don't care. And if he were in Serbia, I wouldn't arrest him, but I'm sure he's not in Serbia, because if he were in Serbia, you'd have arrested him a long time ago. Anyway, I guess he's gone. “ Yesterday your MPs chose Vukcevic again as the prosecutor, the one whom he proposes to arrest, because this is how it turns out not to arrest Ratko Mladic. Then you say the votes were won for European integration. Then you are responsible for the adoption of the Law on travel documents, which allowed visa liberalisation, etc. He's traveling to Brussels yesterday, making solemn statements. What did this government that you're sitting in? I say again, I have absolutely no objection as an MP against you or you, in this regard, anything that has been done for visa liberalisation. I don't understand why you reacted like this when I didn't criticise you at any time, not even then, but your coalition partners? Why did it hit you that I'm criticising them, I don't know, but I repeat, the MUP was doing his job, in my deep conviction, as much as he could and gave his maximum to free Serbian citizens from that burden of visas they had. Who did the most? I repeat, under one, the demilitarisation of borders and the formation of the border police administration. Do you know what kind of work it is, gentlemen of Parliament, especially you from the Democratic Party? Who then controlled the border? You've had two governments before, you haven't tried to do it for a moment, and your mouth is full of European integration and visa liberalisation for citizens. Do you know what the job was to build a border police force, take over the border from the military, which is a European standard? Who did this? Well, Dragan Jocic. Certainly not your Dusan Mihajlovic, who was then a minister. That's what Dragan Jocic did. Then talk about who is responsible for EU entry and visa liberalisation. I see now that the papers have been auctioned. No smaller parties, no greater merits, some here appear to be responsible for visa liberalisation and think it is so important for citizens, and citizens do not have the money to travel from Zaječar to Belgrade, let alone travel to Paris. So that's a good thing and we should be in the Schengen area. Under two, the adoption of an integrated border management strategy. And it was necessary and it was done at the time. Under three, the adoption of a national strategy to curb human trafficking. And it was then done, not when you were in government. Forming the Office for Combating Organized Crime. You only had some office, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, you didn't have an Office to fight organized crime, which was also necessary, but not just to do a service, but also to fight organized crime. Complete production and preparation of a project to issue new biometric and electronic travel documents and ID cards and start them. Right, May 2008. It was late, we all know why – elections have been called and the new government has taken over. Unfortunately, I repeat, not your fault, but the guilt of those who had 50% plus one minister in that government, it wasn't the work of the radio MUP, which was logical, but the Department of Banknote Making, which took over immediately those who pulled out of the 2008 final account procedure and which hurts the report of the State Auditing Institution. Again full of the EU's mouth, but a problem with independent regulatory bodies. Under six, the establishment of the Department of Internal Control of the Police and the Bureau of Presentations and Appeals, which is a function of human rights and freedom. And that's what your coalition partners had a chance to do in the first three years and they didn't. Who did it? Dragan Jocic. The adoption of the Police Act; the improvement of international co-operation, the conclusion of double police co-operation agreements, the sending of the first liaison officer to the SEK centre. Under nine, the conclusion of an agreement on visa liberalisation and readmission, which were initialled on 16. 5. 2007 and signed on 18 September 2007 between Dragan Jocic and Frank Frattini. The agreement began to apply from January 1st, and the road map was due to begin to be met. When we see all this and when we talk about all this, it's clear that our citizens would be better off working. A lot of stories don't do any good. I'm saying it again, it's just supposed to work. This government is just talking. There's nothing she can do. You can see that every step of the way. And what someone else was doing today is you're gonna inherit, fortunately, because you're an executive power, like this one with visa liberalisation. You didn't even do 5% of what it took to get into the Schengen area. What is the EU's relationship with Serbia, where we get visa liberalisation yesterday, but part of our citizens is discriminated against? Now I ask everything – will Minister Bogdanovic be able to travel with a red passport, but do not talk about diplomatic, but about a passport in his name, with the place of residence in Kosovo and Metohija? Will this work for him? Will this apply to ministers in Serbia? We know it will not apply to other citizens, to my friend Mark Jaksic, to fellow government of Milentijevic from Kosovo. We have MPs here that won't be worth it unless they have a diplomatic passport, although they should be writing another residence, not that. We have discriminated against the citizens. Who discriminates against them? The European Union, which tells us about various standards. She discriminates on them this way. I repeat, the DSS will support this, not because of you, but because citizens cannot stand because of your incompetence, because you had an affair with passports, because you didn't know who, when and where the press, how many mistakes were left and because it's obvious that the Foreign Ministry didn't do its job and that consular offices didn't finish their job. If you are already calling for correctness, please say what someone is saying and behind what is behind it. I repeat once again, I didn't criticise you at any time, but your coalition partners, but in that speech of yours, when I wasn't present, you called me the most of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32648	Mr. Dragan Todorovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32649	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, today is on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia The draft law amending only the valid two members of the Law on Travel Documents. As you know, the Law on travel documents began to apply on April 9th of this year. Otherwise, he was brought several years ago into this National Assembly. Do you remember who said these historical sentences and when? I think you should remember that was December 28th, 2008, and said by Interior Minister Ivica Dacic. This was the last working day when the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents was to be passed, because otherwise our citizens would not be able to travel abroad in 2009 with an old passport. And that's when the story started about how we're coming into a situation that practically three days before the end of 2008 we're going to be in a situation where we change the law because we're going to put millions of our citizens in an extremely difficult situation. That's when the stories started that made it happen the way it happened. If you remember me at that time, although the government was formed, it seems to me, in June, after the May elections, that, in some way, the Ministry of Interior and Minister Ivica Dacic were called or blamed for the situation we came into. We have instructed various other objective reasons why we are in the situation we were in. Now, after almost a year, we cannot exempt Minister Ivica Dacic from the responsibility, because he had plenty of time, and we remember what he said to the team about, when we determined the responsibility of all those who were responsible for us, which caused the passport problem. Unfortunately, in our country, it's the kind of situation as it is that things are quickly forgotten, because one affair is killing another, one crime is burying another crime, and it's all happening the way around, something else is going to come along, and we're going to forget about it. I think Mr. Ivica Dacic remembers, and I expect him to inform us today what was done to the team about it, because there is an objective problem around the passport, which is suspected of major crime. The complete job of making passports was something like 98 million. I don't think I'm wrong, Mr. Minister. Out of the 98 million, the Banknote Agency was supposed to get $29 million. Now, as soon as that kind of money is mentioned, it's known to be a problem. What problem? It's a matter of commissions for giving jobs, all kinds of other things. If you put G 17 plus in on it right now, then you have nothing left to suspect. You take the right instruments and the minister starts working like that. This is my suitcase, I apologize, just in case I move it here. Which is safe, it's safe. Then certain things are being done that should somehow lead the state to a situation where there are no such problems. You remember, Mr. Minister, how it started. The business was first involved with the Slovenian company Mirage. The job also included Bozidar Djelic, Mladjan Dinkic and Radovan Jelasic. Since Mladjan Dinkic, even as governor of the National Bank, had certain relations with Milbauer, a German firm, they convinced those from Miraž, although they were the most favourable in the tender, to give the job to Milbauer, while Miraz was a subcontractor in the business, because they hoped to win a church. You know what, when it comes to crocodiles, there's no mercy. When it comes to criminals, there's no mercy here either. Isn't that right, Mr. Battice? When you are given a chance, take it, and in this country Serbia, unfortunately, the state allows those who want to damage it to do so without any concern. From that job, it was only for the Bureau for the making of bills to remain over fivem euros. What's interesting is that the Home Office didn't get that job, otherwise until then, the Ministry of the Interior was always doing passports. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? It's perfectly normal and logical and safest. Do you also have a cabinet, a trained frame. You ordered the machines. It wouldn't be any problem for you to get into this business very quickly and the Home Office has the part that belongs to it. Now the logical question is, why? Who was in the interest of transferring this job to the Banknote Agency? What's the answer? Give me one logical answer. That's right, Mr. Batic, it's a commission, a crime. That's the basic reason, because there's no other reason. Here, give me some other reason that might be acceptable and I'll take it. We did it with our information, Mr. Dacic, and you probably knew already that we were quite right about making passports. You said that counting the costs that ZIN will have based on passport making so far has been 98m euros spent for the past eight years for these purposes. The ZIN contract for passport making is about 29m euros. He says - I think it's complete, if you ask me, illogically, because both the ZIN and the NBS don't do what they've been given the authority to do. Here's another reason that the minister himself states. They didn't do the job, but they gave it to another producer, and the MUP would do the job, what they got the power to do under the law, but they're asking for a tender and giving the job to others. I don't see why anyone would do this on behalf of an authorized state body, like the M.O.P. We've completely agreed with you, and today we agree, but we're also looking for an answer. This is what you said in December of 2008. Mr. Minister, I expected that by now you would give an answer to the citizens of Serbia - what is behind this job. This ministry that picked up all the laurels for the Balkan warrior, beware, our BIA, our M.O.P., discovered two and a half tons of cocaine the other day about half a ton. These DEA and these other services, they can't wipe your shoes. When you were able to discover such a great crime, I expected you to solve this easily, that this is a children's game, all of them are there, and Bozidar Djelic, and Mladjan Dinkic, and Jelasic and Director of ZIN, all of them are there for you. Finish the retail business in 24 hours. They're helping you, though, on the side. We have information that you have been informed that behind this job that you have discovered, which thanks to your engagement, you have managed to climb the very top of your work quality, especially BIA and Sasa Vukadinović with their contribution, say there is a Balkan baron behind all of this with cocaine, under the letter "C". Maybe it's K, let him read K or C or CE. (The Belief of Radet, from the place: it looks like Cane to me.) I don't know who you look like, Mrs. Verice, but I read it in the paper, and I'm counting on Mr. Secretary to know who's hiding behind these pseudonyms. We expect you to tell the citizens of Serbia, because we are aware of the fact that, unfortunately, crime rules this country here, it is a fact. There's been crime before, but since 2000, there's been no dilemma. One of those barons, among other things, said he gave DS 10m euros. I read you here a statement from that private from Zrenjanin, which says he gave over 200,000 euros on four occasions. So the facts are there. I assume, Mr. Minister, that in this year and a half, you've almost managed to deal with crime. You know, the worst crime is the crime involved in politics. I see you've had this action called "Dunav" or "Morava"? Looks like it's Morica. You've caught some in the market there, but there's no one out of these big ones. However, Serbian citizens, as the biggest monster in the world, put the drug problem first. We expect you to solve this problem, Mr. Minister, because if this country continues to criminally destroy this country, there is no chance of survival, especially because it is connected to politics. I'm sure, Mr. Minister, that you know it well, and not only do you know it, but you have good information, but then the question is, what is the reason why the state authorities, first of all the MUP, are not responding to that question? Or, how can we even believe that you can react if this simple passport business isn't able to solve it? I remind you of our amendment, Mr. Minister, from 2008, Mr. Buha. I suppose you remember that we, looking at the complete situation regarding our country and the Ministry, have proposed that our amendment extend the deadline for making passports to 2010. This problem would be solved. However, you replied, or someone in your ministry, considering all the circumstances, facts, etc., that it is the most optimal time to do so by 2010, and that there is no speech about 2011. Here, now we've come into a situation to discuss exactly what we suggested a year ago. I'm asking a rhetorical question, I can't tell you who's really confused, but obviously some things aren't working out. If we suggest you do something a year ago, and it takes you a year to realize that you should do it, then either it's our fault that we suggested it last year, or you're guilty of not accepting it last year, because frankly, nothing would oblige you or cause any problem. The cost of the meeting of the Republika Srpska Assembly would be reduced. Five times these ministry gentlemen, I apologize to them, as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, came...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32650	Mr. Todorovic, excuse me, just one question. Do you want to use time now? Just keep going. It's been 15 minutes since the time you have as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32651	Thank you very much. Your officials, I assume, have complained to you, have come to the Defence and Security Committee five times, and you were once the chairman of that committee. Unfortunately, we couldn't finish this simple thing because there were no MPs of the ruling majority. I mean, Mr. Dacic, yes, as I recall, since I was a board member at the time, it didn't happen that the board didn't hold a session because there was no quorum. Again, I ask a rhetorical question - is it possible that MPs of the ruling majority do not want the Defence and Security Committee to work? Do they want to stop civilian control? You know, the Defence and Security Committee doesn't need to tell you, it has an extremely important role in this particular civilian control, because it is the only committee that, at least in the words of the Rules of Procedure, has the right to control the Ministry of Security, which unfortunately is being misused for political purposes, that is, for political reasons and most often for persecuting political opponents. This bill, Mr. Minister, shows in the best possible way how incompetent this government is, how unable it is to solve the problems we face. You're justifying this by saying that many of our citizens abroad who couldn't replace passports live far from the cities where consulates or embassies are located and that they couldn't take out passports so far. To tell you the truth, I doubt those reasons. For what? For a simple reason. Because you want to avoid the basic question -- what about the citizens of KiM, because they're going to have these blue passports to the greatest extent, because they won't be able to take out these biometric passports? This from St. Nicholas, related to the White Schengen list, in the most drastic way he divided Serbian citizens into first-class citizens and second-class citizens. You knew that and you couldn't accept us in any way. The fact that you accept that Silvio Berlusconi puts you there as a toy where anyone is going to take a picture and as he calls you, that's another thing now, it's a matter of personal dignity and dignity, both the Government and the President of the Republic, and I'm not going into it. But you shouldn't have brought the state into this position. You should not have allowed the division of Serbian citizens into first-class citizens and second-class citizens. What are the KIM citizens going to do? They won't be covered by a white Schengen list. Regardless of your stories and the mingling about how they will be able to travel, the fact is they won't be able to travel, especially if they have any real effects on the body of a white Schengen leaf. You, Mr. Minister, have good information. It was about a million, as I recall, passport SRJ. I don't know how many of these biometric passports you've issued so far, but I don't think it's going to be any more if we take it that it's going to have 10%, as in the previous state, so it's going to be something maybe 700 thousand passports. But out of those 700,000 passports, let's see how many citizens really travel. I assume, Mr. Minister, that you know how much travel has dropped in the last year. Only tourist agencies provided information that around 35-36% of Serbian citizens travelled abroad this year. Let's see once how many Serbian citizens got that white Schengen list, did it get 10,000, 15,000 or 20,000 or maybe a few thousand citizens? Those who had traveled earlier had traveled without a Schengen visa, or a Schengen visa they had received at the embassies. We'd be traveling from now on, but you've allowed us to divide the citizens of Serbia into citizens of first and second-class citizens because of that white Schengen list. I think it is the most difficult consequence of this white Schengen list and that it will have far-reaching consequences, because I assume that the EU will allow citizens in Kosovo and Metohija with some of its moves, to take another step towards further independence of Kosovo and Metohija, to issue to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija some other travel documents, which they will take because they could not get a passport from Serbia and then the damage will be immeasurable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32652	Mrs. Vesna Pesic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32653	I was inspired by what my colleague Shormaz was saying, where he kind of looked at the LDP in a critical way, and we allegedly boasted that we got visa liberalisation, which our citizens can travel freely. First of all, it may not be necessary for us to get it before, but it is good that we have now, yet we have had the strength to concentrate on a road map which was delivered to us in early January 2008, and Montenegro, and Macedonia, and without that concentration, without focus, because this road map is not as simple as it thought, because a series of laws for which it is grateful are also this assembly. I have to say that it is very little to say, that the Assembly had to do a pretty large part of the job to get visa liberalisation and that we can all get a little commendation together when we have some success, because it is undeniable that it is indeed a success that our citizens can travel freely today. We shouldn't be ashamed when we do something useful for our citizens. I really don't see why the opposition has to object. Here, and I'm an opposition, but I really think that citizens must be very pleased, are satisfied with our young people who can travel now, to see Europe. And there's these agencies that can... (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: Return the money. ) Mr. Todorovic, to answer you right now, there are not many citizens in Banja Kovac to leave. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: That's what I'm telling you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32654	Mr. Todorovic, don't disturb Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32655	That argument really doesn't stand. And these agencies that offer these tickets that are really cheap came along. It is certain that many young people, and older ones, will be able to use these opportunities now because the cards were too expensive, now the cards are much cheaper. Young people can also use these cheap hotels and can really get acquainted with the EU and other countries that have not had a chance so far. There's no reason to deny something that's perfectly clear that it is an advantage for all of our citizens. In addition, you often raise that question on a journey of some sort. Please, this is about one basic human right, that we have the right to freedom of movement. I've emphasized that more than once. Even what one of our fellow citizens said, and if a man doesn't want to travel, it's good to know that he's not banned, that he's not excluded and that he can travel. That's very positive. It's true what Mr. Shormaz said. It's true, we boasted too. I've been boasting myself, if that's what I'm supposed to say. I boasted twice on two shows on TV, where I said it wasn't just the government and only the ruling coalition was responsible, and many people who made great efforts to get to the free visa regime. It is true, last year before the new year itself, when our citizens were in big panic, literally panicking, that there would be no old passports, not the ruling coalition at the end of 2008, just before the new year, when we were doing the same job again, we were extending the validity of the old passports and that there was no vote of LDP we couldn't extend those passports and we really jumped in. I stress again, it is LDP policy, not to be at all costs against, so leave the citizens that they cannot return, and the students, or that they cannot travel that we have not extended the validity of these passports. I have to tell that to the gentlemen sitting in the Department of the Interior. In 2007, when we passed the Law on travel documents, then I was on the Committee on European Integration, we drew your attention that that date by 2008, in a year that you were going to change passports, absolutely it was not possible to implement it. I think a few of us have responded and said -- well, wait, how are you going to, you haven't started to issue biometric passports yet, there hasn't been a single passport printed yet, how are you going to print by March 2008 and change all these passports? Of course, that date wasn't real. In the congregation, we drew attention to that. We voted for new travel documents and of course we had to do the same job we're doing at the end of the year. It may have been faster, but now that we're in a situation where we leave the citizens so they can't travel, it's in our common interest to extend the validity of these travel documents because our consular representations, our DKP, couldn't betray many of our citizens who live abroad and who can now return home for a new year and for holidays and celebrations, but they can come back because we're going to do it again. Today we will discuss this issue again and decide in the voting day that citizens can use all these passports until a complete passport transformation is carried out. When it was that anti-discrimination law, you saw what the situation was like back then, I thought it was something that was illegal. The next day, we had it on the agenda of the Assembly, the Anti- Discrimination Act, and suddenly someone from the church appeared, some bishop, the president of the Assembly and on his request, without any procedure, in breach of the procedure, it was removed from the agenda, until some compromise was made, and again this law, which was returned to the assembly procedure on the map, and, of course, from the ruling coalition, did not have enough votes to vote that law and that we did not support the Anti-discrimination Act, could not be visa liberalisation today because without that law would not be possible. Why don't you say it? Whether it is praise or not, we will always support such legislation whenever it comes to Serbia's path to the EU. Madam Chairman, will you please calm this man here who keeps throwing me away?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32656	Mr. Ambassador, I'm really asking you not to disturb Mrs. Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32657	The main priority, the political priority of the LDP is Serbia in the EU, and it is freedom of movement, and it is the possibility for our citizens to move freely after 18 years of waiting in ranks, where it has been beating and raining, and snow, etc., where they have been struggling, many generations have not been able to travel. I think this is positive. I recommend we don't stop there, because it's very important that we don't live in laurels now. We were really critical yesterday about what you were in Brussels yesterday to celebrate from that task force that worked on this, but Mrs. Malovic was in Brussels, I didn't even see that her role there was significant, we all know how much the ministry contributed, who had to work there, yesterday was a very important topic, we chose the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, we elected prosecutors, she simply felt that it was more important to catch her there in Brussels, that she should be there, instead of being in one of the most important sessions, when we discussed yesterday the choice of such functions as the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I think it was better if she hadn't been in that car yesterday to pretend to be important than to sit here, but what to do. Whatever. I conclude that Mr. Shormaz has gone a little too far with this review of boasting. And I said that maybe some time he's exaggerating the government in that, but we can't deny that it's positive. What the DSS also voted against the SAA is its problems that the party does not want in the EU. Maybe he likes being in jail, being citizens, not getting visa liberalisation. He may prefer that prison here, but we prefer freedom, so we feel that we have all contributed together that our citizens can move freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32658	Miss Natasa Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32659	Thank you, Madam President. You can see that the president of our parliamentary group congratulated Mrs Pesic, so the public doesn't think that they had any misunderstandings, although they are from the opposite orientation, we as opposition and colleagues co-operate. Mrs. Verica Radeta has submitted the amendment, Mr. Minister, you heard. At the Committee session, I am sorry, on the fifth try, because the representatives of the ruling parties did not come, I was not on the Committee when it was held, because of the session of the City of Kragujevac Assembly that same day, but she explained on behalf of our parliamentary group that it was necessary to add post 1 to item 2 which is said to be extremely from the position of this member under the age of three years of life a passport issued with a period of validity of two years, persons from three to ten years with a period of validity of three years and persons of 10 years of age with a period of validity of five years, because it is a much better estimate of how children grow up and how their character is changing and why it is necessary to make possible distribution and in this way to determine what is the importance of passports for children. I don't know why, you could do this, it's not a technical matter, it's a real view and experience, after all, which you have as a father of two children and other people you know, how children grow up and how their physionomy changes. However, it is your right to accept or not accept. We thought this solution was better. However, I am much more concerned, Mr. Minister, let me take a part of it and accept it, because I once told you at the Security Committee session, that our employees of the people living in France, first of all, but also in Germany, who, as you stated in the explanation for the extension of the deadlines of the old passports, that it is a great crowd and you know, Mr. Peric is there, for a time in Ljubljana you couldn't get a new passport. There was more than three weeks waiting. Later on, it kind of went back to normal. Mr. Minister, since you are also in public, and above all your associates, Mr. Veljovic spoke mostly in the context of dealing with organised crime groups, he said that our border service is now much better organised and that, in addition to the modern equipment that the MUP has received, what do we also see when we go on our official trips, tell me – what will the MUP do with those who abuse these current passports, whose importance will you extend to the end of 2010? In the second amendment, counterpart Pop – Lazic gave an optimal deadline for this by June next year, when all this could not be solved. This is why I ask you, I have asked you a question as a member of the Committee on Defence and Security, just before that session to discuss this law, and about an organized tobacco cartel, namely the tobacco mafia, headed by Stanko Subotić called Cane Zhabac, who is the holder of this passport, Switzerland and who knows what other passports that criminal still owns. I'm asking you this because I got it from you, but I don't think it was just pro form for an answer, but it was one that didn't really satisfy the right answer to my question, which was the conclusion of the Defence and Security Committee. You told me that, as is known to me and the public, Stanko Subotić, called Cane Žabac, who, as head of the tobacco cartel in 2002, was designated by Dr Vojislav Seselj before the regime sent him to The Hague, or wrote that indictment, that he had been named Interpol's arrest warrant, as well as 31 other persons involved in the smuggling of tobacco. This is a very serious thing. I also thank Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, who allows me, for some part I am coming out of the topic, but I think it is important for the citizens, but also that it is important for you as police minister to tell us, during this session – what will you do in the further account and in bringing Stanko Subotic's justice? Namely, new moments have come up. A former adviser and representative in Washington of the Montenegrin president, who has deeply stepped into crime, you know that the Italian state is looking for him because of this, the Italian prosecutor's office, because of the smuggling of cigarettes, Milo Djukanovic, so former adviser Milo Djukanovic, Ratko Knezevic has repeatedly announced in our public over the past few months, and a week ago he was a guest on the "Interview" show at Yugoslavia Ćosic on TV B 92...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32660	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32661	I'm done. Let me just finish this question. I apologized to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32662	Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32663	Thank you, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. I'm about to finish my presentation. I ask you, given this interview and the fact that he said he was ready to put the state-owned Serbian authorities at his disposal, and Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, if you have already interrupted me, you know very well that children will not use the importance of these old passports in 2010, and Cane Zhabac and his criminals will, because these same passports, whose importance has been extended to "RIC" in Paris in 2007, were traveled by Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, and later, Vukic, himself, on more than once in Moscow, to take money from Stanko Subotic, Canet Žapca, so that according to the Prince's testimony, they would have the task of taking over the SRS, that Dr. Vojislav Šeselj be forced to defend himself, that he enters the hunger and that this end, don't let the fact, with some result. Of course, they didn't make it. He will return to his homeland and to this congregation hall as long as he lives and is healthy next year. Mr. Minister, if former Montenegrin official says so, and appears on the media that has a national frequency, what are you going to do to bring justice to justice or to listen to our police bodies mentioned by Nikolic and Vukic who took money from Subotic? As the chairman of the SPS, which is the ruling party, you know how many MPs you have here. You know very well that we've been kidnapped from our mandates, but they couldn't throw out the Party Funding Act, so we can receive 82 SRS dollars from the budget. What is the funding of Nikolic and Vukic? Of the dirty money, the smuggling and the tobacco cartel Canet Zappac, and of that, as Mr. Knezevic has repeatedly been like, the death squadron ordering the killings. So, Mr. Minister, this importance of passports by 2010 will not be abused by our displaced people who have left, which our people would say, with the belly after bread, to work, to torture and to earn money for their family, but Cane and his criminals will or these criminals to whom you have given your mandates and who have committed such an attack, fortunately failed coup in the SRS. So I'm not happy with this answer I got from you in writing. You're the minister who went into a tough fight with organized crime, if I look at what happened now and what Mr. Todorovic listed, you're left with this tobacco mafia and the tobacco cartel. There are mechanisms to bring Stanko Subotic in. Start with Nikolic and Wolfie. Here's some state authorities and police authorities first listen to them...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32664	Miss Jovanovic, please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32665	Here, I'm done. So, I think Mr. Minister understood my message not only for the sake of our society, but that finally in Serbia, we know who the people who deal with politics are and who promote political ideas from their beliefs, as you do Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, 20 years ago, and you are not ashamed of it. I hear it's those criminals who were financing in this same assembly, also in one day that I wasn't here, Mr. Minister, a state that wants to deal with organized crime and has to connect these things. Criminals such as Cane Frog, Milo Djukanovic and criminals such as Nikolic and Vukic. Thank you. I'm sorry, Mrs. Dejanovic, for getting off the subject of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32666	Ms. Jorvanka Tabakovic, according to this amendment, is an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32667	No, Madam Chairman, I ask that we be protected by the law that regulates the noise in this area, because these are unhealthy conditions for functioning. Please find technical possibilities so that we no longer face this attack called too much tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32668	Please also use appropriate terms. The term "torture" isn't right. The word is Mr. Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to use two of the things that Mrs Vesna Pesic has brought here as a clagworth for the story of this law. First of all, she said the LDP voted last year for a law that is basically the same with this tonight, which we're discussing. I would just like to remind myself that the law was also voted for by the SRS, but not because the Government of the Republic of Serbia deserves support now, because it brings to this assembly some rational and practical, or pragmatic projects, but because of the fact that Serbian citizens were not obliged to suffer the irresponsibility and inability of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to be the victims of this irresponsibility. On the other hand, Mrs Pesic said she shouldn't be in opposition exclusively against something and she realized that she shouldn't be ashamed that we got white Schengen and we can finally travel around the world. Mrs. Pesic and I agree completely with you, you know. You shouldn't be ashamed of what you can travel, but what you should be ashamed of is -- be ashamed of the government, which is able to bury us for two days, in all the means of public informing the praises to their own account that they have provided us with a white Schengen, and are unable to provide passports so that citizens, who may eventually be able to travel to that white world, one year or two years or who knows how far back. That's our problem, not getting a white Schengen. The problem is that too, but we'll talk about it further, we'll open it through discussion. As far as this amendment is concerned, there is no reason why you did not accept or have the arguments to which you could, you should have received this amendment, Mr. Minister. It says here, among other things, in the light of this law, you are referring to some comparative legal practice. Why didn't you apply this parallel legal practice last year? Why wasn't this amendment or this member of the law like this last year when we changed a law before, which I said earlier, to vote on? So that's not an envious argument. We find this amendment very rational. You could have accepted that there was political will, but since it was the wrong approach last year, the approach was wrong this year. Don't say in your essence what you wrote in the law just about it, but it says everything you said a year ago. The fact is that tonight you and all the representatives of the government are avoiding the responsibility to talk about this law, to remind us of what you told us a year ago and what you're asking us to vote on tonight, that is, in the voting day to support the law - as well, we wouldn't be making a problem for our people in the diaspora, or outside, but also for the citizens of Serbia who want to come to new passports. I will remind you in that sense, I will try not to repeat myself with my fellow MPs earlier. When you said, when we talk about responsibility -- now I can say it is on those who were before me. You can't say that now. It would be nice to hear you explain to us what this is all about, and why are we discussing it again a year later on the same subject? When you said -- in any case, I think that by the end of next year, Serbian citizens will be able to have enough opportunities to change their personal documents. These are actually essential evidence of how effective the government is, how effective the government is, how capable the government is and how prepared the government is for one rational assessment and assumptions both in terms of time and in terms of technical capacity and in general the administrative capacities that this state has. I think the story is complete, or completely degutant today to tell this story and your story of white Schengen. An impression is coming, so to open the can, a story will come out -- who has provided visa liberalisation for the state of Serbia? Does the state of Serbia enter visa liberalisation and white Schengen because it has met the standards or because the EU has made a political decision - that you enter, or the whole of Serbia on a white Schengen, a political decision whose account we may have paid yesterday by adopting a Statute and the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction, or will we pay for it in the next period, when a new account comes to us? Will we pay the price of this visa liberalisation as or, for example, the one that I brought out today or this morning - the state to keep quiet about some of the phenomena that are threatening us and coming right from the EU countries, which have just gained courage and courage in the heart of the EU, to revive some old ambitions and some dangerous stories? I was talking about the phenomena of Bulgarian extremism in the territory of the Pcinj County. Is it because of this white Schengen that we will continue to remain silent and not react, to close our eyes to the fact that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, within our state administration and local self-government, on the day of the Albanian flag, the congregations of the municipalities of the Republic of Serbia hold solemn sessions and in the official state authorities highlight Albanian flags? Is that the price of white Schengen? If that's the case, then Mrs. Pesic, we're really ashamed of such a white Schengen, and we really don't need such a white Schengen. And the objective question is, who's really going to benefit from that white shengen? Is he a privilege? Those who have traveled and will now travel. True, with a little less procedure, but it'll be easier for them to leave the money they get there. What good do white Schengen have to do with those who protest from students, to whom you give wings to this white Schengen, to those workers on the tracks, etc.? Is this a privilege that they can be happy and proud of - certainly not? The point isn't here after all. The point and the real question is, what did you do to establish standards that you would really deserve to join a family of perhaps serious and successful and qualified states? That's where you fall for every exam. You can talk and boast as much as you want, go from integrated border management to beyond. Look at this -- what did you say then? You said Ministers - not only am I talking about European integration as our father, but we don't know what it means in technical terms. Now the question is - what have we done in a technical sense in terms of integrated border management? How administrative and technical do we have to respond to all these challenges? This is the right answer and proof that the decision on white Schengen is purely political, not the character it should be, meeting certain standards in this area. Look at what you promised us then. It would be nice if you could give us an answer on what's been done in the meantime. "A strategy should then be developed to combat illegal migration, to develop an instruction on dealing with smugglers, to adopt a strategy to combat organised crime, an action plan to implement an anti-organised crime strategy, an agreement on co-operation with Frontex, a migration management strategy, a co-ordination body of the Serbian Government for the management of migration, a national strategy for the integration of returnees, an agreement on readmission, an action plan for the care and integration of returnees under the readmission agreement, etc." That you've adopted everything, as long as we've arrived at the application of all of this which you're exclusively talking about? When I say you, I don't just think about you personally, I mean the government you're sitting in and the government you belong to. Here in the context of the reading, what have we done? How far did it get here? Why don't we talk about what's ahead of us with this, not the privilege of white Schengen? We're going to travel now. Are you talking about human aspects? Is anyone ready to talk about it here and in public? Who do we have to accept? How many people will that be? We will accept people, not only who have a residence or residence in the Republic of Serbia, but who have left the Republic of Serbia and are not legally staying in the EU. Why don't you talk about it? Did we get the privilege of going to the EU labour market? Which of the people in Serbia will be able to get a job based on white Schengen? Those waiting for work in the EU in front of the embassy will continue to wait. True, not in front of the embassy, but it won't be possible to get that job much longer. You speak here, in the context, of people who live abroad and now you get the impression that you care about them. A few months ago, we were discussing the Diaspora Act and we said then -- this state has been unable to come to power, whatever shape it was, just to count the people living in the diaspora. Can you assume, on the basis of that fact, that for a year you've had enough to solve a problem with passports of people whose fate you're concerned about and calling when you explain one position in the laws that you're changing here today? You couldn't do so much for them in the time behind us, and now we need to accept this as something that will bring good, which is in the spirit of all these European values of our country's European path. We believe, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that the real expression and the real image of the Government is the fact that a year ago we changed a law, that a year after that we were changing that same law again and that this is the right expression, the image and opportunity of the Republic of Serbia today, its government, and certainly not the fact that because of the political decision and the will of the EU, which we are going to pay, I suppose, and in the next period, because Europe alone with the language of blackmail, at least that time has shown us, it cannot be with us and it does not want to speak differently with us. So it's a picture and an opportunity for Serbia, not the fact that you have secured visa liberalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32670	The word was asked for by the minister. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the scene: I asked for a word. ) You absolutely have an advantage over everyone else now, but only if the minister agrees. Mr. Minister, would you rather or Mrs. Tabakovic? Mrs. Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32671	I thank Mr. Dacic who should have made an effort to provide me with the right to speak. I'll speak briefly so that you too, Mr. Minister, may be in direct transmission. Mrs. Djukić, please, you are the first person in my life to warn me of inappropriate behavior, or the use of inappropriate terms. Most seriously, I ask you, in no portable sense whatsoever, but in the most direct, to provide me as well as the other MPs with working conditions that mean the application of the Noise Protection Act. That is why you did not warn Mr. Stevanović before Mr. Stevanović as he spoke past the Rules of Procedure, past Article 103, past the rules of basic culture and behaviour, I will not enter into it, some price voters, but if I ask you to attack where I didn't mean the person, but the noise from which we can't function, you must not take me differently. Before I was told to speak, today I came down to the front row for the first time because my colleagues spoke too loudly to me, laughed and made it impossible to concentrate on what the MPs were talking about, which is the topic. The reason why I sit in this room as an SNS MP is to attend the assembly work and listen to the debate on the subject. I ask you to really find the technical possibilities that when someone speaks too loudly, because they think they're arguments, the rest of us ensure that our hearing aids don't suffer because I don't deserve to be called a person who uses inappropriate terms. Mr. Dacic, I'm just gonna take two more minutes and tell you about the subject of the law. What was our party's intervention regarding your law concerned the jurisdiction of you as a minister who was supposed to take over the business of issuing travel documents. Not only because you as a man have to guarantee cheaper costs of issuing passports, but because it is the jurisdiction of the MUP. Although the regulation that was passed in 2008 and innovated in 2009 was prescribed that the Banknote Office is doing this job, that is no reason not to take over and do what your job is. The explanation you gave me...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32672	I ask the MPs of the SRS to allow us to listen to Mrs Tabakovic. Please, Miss Jovanovic, do not interfere with the work. Here you go, Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32673	What we expected of you is that you do not defend yourself by changing the issue of passports will lead to a stalemate. It may lead to a stalemate, but a change that should restore the behaviour of certain ministries in legal frameworks should never have an excuse. So we expect the MUP to issue both IDs and travel documents. If the MUPto were to work, it would certainly not have been the kind of abuses that occurred and occurred when these purchases were made through other authorities and when we really doubt the justification of the price to be taken. If I were right, please tell me, do you, as minister, agree, and vice president, with the ministry run by Mr Dinkic of the G17 group, beyond the powers it has in the Ministry of Economy, Regional Development, Employment, Valuable Measures and Metals and a thousand others, now assumes competence in economic diplomacy? So, it's little that he gets into all other jobs, but now and in the jurisdiction of what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, Mr Dinkic -- 38 people after the competition he has called, receives people whose monthly income, monthly earnings, salaries will be six thousand euros, family accommodation costs, education, etc. After recognition of the ministry itself, over 238 million dinars are costs for this type of activity that is solely politically motivated. And what's most significant is the question -- what effects can this economic diplomacy have? So the reasons why someone is dealing with their very business that is described by what's called the Government Act are the basic reasons why what is the request of many citizens on behalf of which we have submitted the amendment, which is that you, as the Ministry of the Interior, do not defend yourself by stopping, take over the affairs that are your jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32674	The word has a Mr. Minister, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32675	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have spoken about this subject many times and I would not like to repeat some of the things I said earlier. Although I've never been quoted more in one place than today, but it has some of its own good side, and bad, of course. In any case, I am not ashamed of what I said a year ago and five years ago, and ten years ago, because, as you know, I did not vote for the Co-operation Act with The Hague tribunal, as some, but I am the minister today and no minister can disobey the law. On the other hand, I can't help but say today, when I'm talking about this subject, since it was a condition of number one for visa liberalisation of document security, the issue of new passports, to really say that visa liberalisation for Serbian citizens is a major event, not because someone will be able to travel freely. The question is whether they will have the means and the desire to travel, rather than because of the destruction of a major historical injustice towards the citizens of Serbia and the feelings of equality and equality with the citizens of other countries with whom we have been unjustly in an unfair position for years. That's why without any push to the chest who's the most credited and whether anyone deserves it today, yesterday or the day before, I want to congratulate all Serbian citizens on getting the freedom and destruction of the Schengen wall that was around Serbia. In that sense, I don't think it's a subject that needs to be led by some major controversy, I guess it's clear to everyone around it that it's in the interest of all Serbian citizens to travel to as many countries in the world without a visa. We'll continue our talks with other states. As you know, this has been discussed, discussed with Israel, Turkey, Japan, and discussed with the United States, Great Britain, etc. We think, as you know, Russia recently abolished visas for Serbian citizens and we are in the interest of now, again, with a red passport, we can travel around the world again without a visa. I would also like to remind myself that the topic we are discussing today can be interpreted politically and talk about whether someone is more or less guilty, why this number of passports is not issued to all Serbian citizens who want to. I just want to say that at this time last year, only 200,000 passports were issued in December of last year. The law passed in 2007, predicted that all passports would change from April to the end of that year. And we voted for that law and everyone who voted for that law knows it's not real. Today, what the people of the MUP who are still present, as they were sitting at the time of Mr Jocic's ministry and who well know that 30 to 40,000 passports could be issued monthly then, and today at least 80 to 130 thousand passports are issued monthly. Ladies and gentlemen, since December of last year, more than a million and 100,000 passports have been issued to this day. I want to thank all the M.O.P. workers who worked on it. I want him to thank, apologize to all the citizens who have suffered a lot of torture waiting in line. Why did we have to and why were these deadlines useful? It was one of the first conditions for abolishing Schengen visas, document security, or a new biometric passport. Today, when visas have been lifted, there are a number of citizens who, at the end of the year or at the end of the year, would find themselves in an irregular position abroad, primarily because of the inability at diplomatic consular offices to obtain and extract new passports. That's why I don't think there's any big story to be made about this. So far, about a million and 200,000 Serbian citizens have had a passport. About a million and two hundred to a million and three hundred. Now there's about 1,350,000 of them. When you're talking about the tech issue. Everything you've listed, everything I said back then, it's all over today. I just want you to know that the EU has not given anything to Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. We met all the technical conditions and criteria of so-called. maps of the road delivered to Serbia in January and 7 May last year. Everything you've talked about - laws, strategies, action plans and operational work, such as the issue of documents, of course, the fight against crime and everything else. For this reason, I would like to thank all of you MPs, because without the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia would never be in a position to pass the laws that you have passed here, we would not be in a position today that our citizens can travel without visas to Schengen countries on the night between December 18th and December 19th. Therefore, our citizens with old passports will not find themselves in a different position after that day, not after the new year, from this situation in which they are now, if we decide to extend the passports. Not to comment on everything that's been said. A total of two and a half to three million Serbian citizens are expected to take passports. It's a huge change and a huge one, to be understood, the biggest part of it is, in some ways, expected and after making this decision on visa liberalisation. It is twice the number of Serbian citizens who have so far had passports. I don't see anything wrong with that. I see no victory in any political party or political option in Serbia. It is of interest to all Serbian citizens. Of course, some jobs have started before, such as the readmission agreement reached with the EU at the time of the previous government, as is the system of integrated rather than integrated border management set before, but everything else. So, I just want to remind you that the road map began to be implemented practically since May last year, when elections were held, or the government was formed on July 7th, the 7th of January began meeting these conditions, and the 7th of May map of the road was presented to Serbia and the first passport was issued on July, by chance, on the day the new Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed. Today, when we talk about technology, yesterday the release of a new generation of biometric passports containing another biometric data, which is a fingerprint. That is why Serbia is among the ten only countries in the world to do so. It is proof that Serbia is not going after the world and Europe, but that it is going into step, and even, in some things ahead. So if someone wants to commend the MUP, please don't interpret it as commendable to me, feel free to commend them, deserve, as they do when they're wrong, you're right, and of course I always criticize them. Absolutely, as far as this goes, our M.O.P. is trying to make sure everything that you've been talking about really happens. That the map of the road, that visa liberalisation is not a political decision, but that it meets the criteria and standards and values needed to get to that level. So it must be if we want to be a serious state, just as EU membership should mean reaching certain levels, standards and quality, and not just some political decision. When we talk today about how much longer the validity of the old passports should be extended, it can be found for another year, it can be a year and a half, it can be another two years, but just because the old passport will have this weakness that visa liberalisation will not be valid, it is normal that a growing number of people will want to take new passports. As I think the question of whether passports will be issued in children, so far it has been for two years, and it has proved that the deadline has to be longer. Whether it will be extended in this way or in the one that you have suggested, believe me, it is not so essential, because it does not take a passport from the third to the fourteenth year, but each passport is valid for a maximum period of five years. On the other hand, there are some comparative solutions but, in any case, this decision, as well as the question of the validity of ID cards, is also related to some technical issues – can the chip that exists in the ID card last longer than five years? You know the I.D. card used to be 10 years old. Unfortunately, the technical capabilities of the chip that was purchased in the earlier period are not such that it can withstand and preserve data for more than five years. Then it's impossible to talk, even though it's logical, that the I.D. should be valid for 10 years. At this point, that contact chip can't keep the data for more than five years. I'm not a cop, but I'm a man at the head of the MUP, and I'm trying to coordinate as much as we can, to be a citizen service and to work in the interest of citizens who are ultimately the Supreme Judge in all matters. So I wouldn't answer all the other questions. I'm just going to say one more time that what I said last year, I'm talking right now. I'm saying that, if I were the Home Secretary back then, I probably wouldn't agree with that, or certainly, if the M.O.P. was issuing passports and being made by someone else. I wouldn't agree if it were in this law. The MUP never made passports. We don't have the technology to make passports, but it was logical that our ministry played a certain role in the process of making passports, not that the law would determine who would make passports, so that the one who was legally designated to call tenders and make deals on other issues himself. It's really complicated at this point, especially it was complicated, until visa liberalisation was obtained, to debate on the subject, because the process in these conditions is very difficult. We think, and when it comes to other solutions, there will be driver's licenses, registration licenses, license plates, that we will never go to that solution again, but our ministry, if it is not able to just produce what is required under the law, then we will call a tender, in accordance with the law, will play a certain role in controlling the whole process. That's what I was talking about last year, that's what I'm thinking right now. The only thing I'm glad for is that it didn't create major problems in the process of making passports. Probably the MUP at that point did not want to go into doing the job, and it was easier for him to entrust it to another authority, but in the conditions when certain problems arise, you have one illogical situation – that you betray passports, and that someone else makes them, that you are responsible for the quality of the job without fully controlling that job. What I was saying back then, I mean now, but that's how it's defined by the law that was passed in 2007 and day-to-day must be respected. In any case, I think this has done a lot to cross all those stages in the map of the road towards visa liberalisation, and one of those points and stages was the security of the document, i.e. the Law on travel documents. In the last few years, there have been a lot of things that have been lying on the MUP, and that is why I want to express my gratitude once again to all those who have been employed or worked in that ministry. I don't think there's gonna be any abuse of this deadline, because anyone with a blue passport will have to take out Schengen visas, as before, so I don't believe it can be used for some kind of abuse. When it comes to other issues, of course it's not a subject right now, but all the things you've been talking about, all the people you mentioned about organized crime, the big criminal groups, as you know, they're on the arrest warrants and they're being prosecuted. Some of these procedures are no longer in the hands of the MUP, but in the prosecution. Once available to our authorities, as far as we're concerned, they will be arrested immediately. Once again, I would like to call on you that, when we talk about this, we bear in mind that what we have not voted on about this amendment and the addition of the law, we are helping our citizens in this transitional period, when there is no longer a danger that the extension of that deadline would compromise the issue of visa liberalisation, so that we are not in an unfair situation. It's more of a matter of whether it's going to be worth one year or another 10 years. The important thing is that they will no longer be interested in having an old passport, but everyone, as much as they can, will trade that passport for a new passport and without any danger to the visa liberalisation process. So I invite you to vote, no matter what some of your amendments may not be accepted, but believe me, they are not such that they have a fundamental impact on what we've talked about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32676	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Vesna Pesic has a word. Your MP group has three and a half minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32677	I wanted to put together a replica of Mr. Stevanovic from the SRS that kind of changed the meaning of what I was saying. I wanted to point out in the first place that we can be happy that we got a visa waiver and that it was one job that required one concentration and that we should never be ashamed if we did something right and something positive happened. A lot of negative things have happened to us, so when something's good, we should all agree it's good. What I said, Mr. Stevanovic put in a negative context, talking about crime. Neither is the subject of crime today, and we can talk about what we're talking about today with another topic that's not on the agenda, so I reacted, because what I said as a positive, he said other negative things. Mr. Stevanovic, you don't need to answer me, because it agrees that there are many other problems that we are facing today. Let's say, we saw now, as far as Mr. Minister and the entire MUP are concerned, the State Audit Institute report. It's really a disaster. If we opened one positive window, I hope the minister and the ministry won't let us take away the white Schengen, because we're not going to fight crime and some of the other phenomena you were talking about. We were just about to let them take away our white Schengen and reintroduce our visas, so it doesn't make sense. There must be a mass of these phenomena and this gentleman we've known since 2007, who's here, what you're saying is he's the same, that's right, that's when it was said that only 12% of our citizens had passports. What you've concluded is that they won't even ask for more than 12%, as if we're some people who like to live in prison, we like not to travel anywhere. People didn't take passports because they didn't want to wait for visas or couldn't get visas, young people, so they didn't even try. We older ones were easier to get these visas, and young people were not worth looking for visas or not getting. However, the moment the possibility of a free journey appeared, you saw how many passports you had to issue, not 12%. That assessment was completely wrong. Thank God we learned that now. I pray that what someone says in this assembly doesn't put now in the context of crime, because I didn't speak in that context, and when it comes to crime, if we discuss the report of the state audit institution and various other issues, then we can discuss it. Let's not go after the subject, because then it doesn't make any sense if what a man says positively puts it in a negative context and I ask you not to put statements out there and change their meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32678	Mr. Milos Aligrudic. (Dragan Stevanović, from the place: Replica. I'm sorry, you don't have the right to a replica. It was all clear, there was nothing offensive. Mrs. Pesic is extremely correct... There's no basis for replication. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32679	That's why it was very offensive in what Mrs Pesic was saying about the DSS. I'll use group time to talk about what's on the agenda, and since everyone's allowed to come out of the context of the discussion, in something called visa liberalisation, linking it to the map of the roads and the deadlines that are given here. By the way, our basic remark is how is it possible that time is passing, that months are passing without a response in time? I am absolutely aware of all this and what is in the decisions, who is all involved in the process of making, how this has happened, and from this place I tell you neither the previous minister nor this minister have solved it. These are circumstances as they are. If we weren't aware of these circumstances, we wouldn't have voted last year, along with the ruling majority, for a law extending the importance of travel documents because we did it. We're hearing some unscrupulous information here today. This can be checked, this is a verifiable thing, that the DSS voted in favour of that law. That story, if it wasn't for the LDP, if that law hadn't been passed, it wouldn't have been extended travel documents, that's amazing. How can you say that? It's a verifiable thing, there's documentation in the National Assembly, there's stenograms, there's know who voted, there's voting papers. These are things we would never allow ourselves, not as politicians, but as citizens of this country who want the people to be good, that we don't bring people in thanks to someone who may be clumsy or poor in government, that we're not guilty of something that's going to happen and that people get hit on the head. It's an elemental thing. No one would ever do that. As for this joy over visa liberalisation, there is no place of joy. It's just like looking forward to buying gas at gas stations. I agree that it is a fundamental right to free movement in an area larger than the state in which you live. We do not give this right to ourselves, but it is the right of someone for the territory of a community of some states to give or deny it to us, and then, if we want that right to have, we need to achieve certain conditions for those countries that have joined that community, this is about the EU, giving us the right to do so. Of course, if the government had passed and this government had worked in the interests of the citizens, so that the right would have been realised as soon as possible, because it is pointless for people to be deprived of such basic and elemental rights. These aren't all topics. Here the topic is something else entirely, it is about the map of the road, about an indulence, for me, the ministry in this part, because there is really no reason to meet once a year from last year to this year with this topic, as if it could not be known in May of this year what awaits us. We all knew it by heart, we didn't have to sit in the MUP. You can say now – we've been estimating, we've been watching, maybe... I can do it on the side, the press can do it, and you don't like it. As for these other things, visa liberalisation, of course, that if you hear something nice, a beautiful voice should be cast and, of course, a beautiful voice should be shared. It would be ugly if the various political parties who have contributed in their own way were racing over who is most guilty of good news. This beautiful news hides a little ugly in itself, and what bothers us is that those who exercise power now conceal that ugly news, and not only conceal it, but to the comments that such an ugly news exists corresponds with an incredibly perfidious political control, which is – you who comment, you are against visa liberalisation, which is insolence. The thing is, the next thing you know, it's just for the public's sake to remind us. One part of our citizens living in KIM territory will not be able to use these rights, even if they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It right up to the personal principle, because it's a personal principle, and when you're citizens of a state, you're personally bound to the state. It's the idea of citizenship. Whether you're physically in another place or not, it doesn't matter, you have a relationship with your country. You are now talking to a partner about visa liberalisation, we are agreeing visa liberalisation, he says – anything is possible except for these cases. Is that so or isn't it? Is that a condition you can't skip? It's now a question of opening up a discussion that doesn't have room here. We can open this discussion when that moment comes and we can talk, but no one from the prime minister to the president of the state, who normally, I don't know, reports that he's commenting on everything and everything that isn't in his jurisdiction, doesn't say at least one sentence, which is – well, OK, let's do this, but we're going to try to do something. We'll open up some conversations on the subject, have a series of conversations, make something happen. No one here can be reasonable against the citizens of Novi Sad, Pancheva, Koseric, Užica, etc. They travel using the possibility that Serbia is on the white Schengen list. Who would be so stupid not to want that? The problem is we're just wondering if the functioning of the authorities in the state that you're silent about this element of the whole thing is valid or not. Of course it's not, at least it's fair to say - we're in a situation like this and we're not allowed to do that, we'll have to figure out a way. At least lie, it's not your first time. You've been doing it for a year and a few days. You spin what you like, make up that black is white, that breaking the Constitution is not a violation of the Constitution. Do whatever you like. This little lie that we might like to hear, it doesn't come out of your mouth. That's what the problem is. Here comes Vesna Pesic, even though she caused this kind of exposure. In order not to be inconclusive in front of the citizens who are watching this, the DSS voted for many reasons last time for the Law on the extension of travel documents. Even now our attitude will not be different, to reason about someone's responsibility, indolence or misbehavior in a story, it's a legitimate right, especially if there's a reason. At all, this guy's discussion, which disqualifies someone else completely flat-rate, without being able to give a valid answer, is really out of place. Whatever we said about someone here, that someone was here. There are people who are authorized representatives of the group or the heads of groups, and this is what I'm exposed to, someone can answer and answer. And that's fair, that's how you can address yourself in parliament and that's how we can normally work. Everything else is meaningless.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32680	The word came from three colleagues from the SRS. What order are you going to take? Mr. Stevanović, Maric and Peric? Mr. Stevanović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32681	I mean, Madam President, that you had no reason not to give me a replica. I'll take advantage of the MP's time. I really didn't want to argue with Mrs. Pesic, or replicate, to challenge the replica. I think the replica also means the story of someone misreading you. I'll say this less for the public, not Mrs. Pesic. I really haven't mentioned crime in one word of my own. I'm not saying he's not here either, and when we talk about passports, crime can't be found and recognized. I really didn't say one word of crime, I'm not saying he's not here either, that even when we talk about passports, crime can't be found and recognized. But I really didn't intend to talk or possibly allude to that kind of crime. If I mentioned crime, then crime should be recognized in what is happening in Bosilegrad these days and what is happening in Presevo these days. I repeat that the state closes its eyes to the fact that a type of crime, in this case extremism and attack on the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, is happening both in the Bosilegrad municipality and in the Presevo municipality, and to a lesser extent in the Bujanovac municipality. As far as this law and my story is concerned, I spoke exclusively of the institutional and administrative weaknesses of the government and the government in general in Serbia. What I used as a cause and cream for my story, and previously presented by Mrs Pesic, I said that in December 2008, the SRS also voted in favour of the law. The second thing I mentioned was that it was really absurd for someone two days to talk tirelessly about white Schengen, about visa liberalisation, and that in a year, and even before that, and who knows how much, he was unable to prepare, or to provide passports, on which we would use the privilege, if I could call it that, visa liberalisation. So, I'm completely misread here, of course, I don't blame Mrs. Pesic, and she and we are in opposition, with different aspects we criticise the government, in different ways we experience the government's moves, but we really weren't going to do anything that she said to the government's burden, I twist as she said or brought into some negative or different context. So I was talking exclusively about the government's administrative weaknesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32682	Mr. Dusan Maric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32683	Thank you. Excuse me, may I ask how many MPs there's still time?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32684	You have a total of 23 minutes of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32685	Thank you. The Radeta Verse has submitted an amendment proposing the following - persons under the age of three of the life of a passport issued with a period of validity of two years, persons from three to ten years of life with a period of validity of three years and persons from 10 to 15 years of age with a five-year period of validity. I think that accepting this amendment would be in the interest of the safety of children in Serbia, I think it would be a function of reducing the possibility of kidnapping and smuggling cross-border, smuggling children from Serbia abroad. I'm going to start this discussion with one question and I'd like the minister or one of his associates to answer me. I am interested in who is the carrier of the 1st biometric passport in the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, that passport was assigned on the basis of a contest that was called, I believe, in April 2008. 2,100 candidates appeared in the contest, and the passport was assigned, I believe, to this solemn special passport was given 204 persons. The list of persons who received the Serbian citizen's passport tops Miroslav Mlinar, born in Benkovac, Belgrade. Now I want to know who Miroslav Mlinar is. Whether it was Miroslav Mlinar, president of the Serbian Democratic Party from Benkovac, which I believe was attempted by Croats in May in 1990 to slaughter, and he fled, a poor man, to Serbia. The citizens of Serbia and the MPs certainly remember the sad, so to speak, the young man, with a trail of cuts on his neck, who walked from one to the other rally in Serbia and cried out to Serbs, brothers in Serbia, to prevent the massacre of the Serb people in Croatia. Is it this Miroslav Mlinar or is it Miroslav Mlinar of Benkovac, who has maimed the world's public, maimed the citizens of Serbia, maimed the Serbian and Croatian people himself, in order to make himself a star and martyrs, and then use this fictional tragedy to enrich himself. This Miroslav Mlinar, the other Miroslav Mlinar, currently has a company, Rafael, in Australia, so I have no idea how it can say here that he is from Belgrade. The company deals with the production of interiors and on the site, in Wikipedia I found data, it says - one of the five strongest companies in Australia, be careful, on the continent, which deals with this activity. The same Miroslav Mlinar has private television and, according to information I have, has one half of the mall "Milenium", between Knez Michael Street and Obilic's wedding in downtown Belgrade. I really believe that the Serbian government, especially Bozidar Djelic, who is the main actor of this passport saga, should have taken care of who he gives the passport to. So, I'm interested in the answer to the question -- is it a Miroslav Mlinar who is a victim of Croatian Ustashas, as he claimed, or is it another Miroslav Mlinar, who has embellished both Serbian and Croatian people and the world public and used this donkey for personal gain? I will be reminded of the chronology of this biometric passport saga, which lasts for two years, and its plot begins sometime before the May 2008 elections, approximately as part of some pre-election sale of European fog, in order to deceive Serbian citizens, promises of a better life, etc. to achieve a better election result. I remind you again that we have become the first country in the world to share our own passport, the passport that we so admire, through competition. At that time, it was said that all Serbian citizens would receive a passport by the end of 2008, and that the first citizen would receive a passport in May. There was no "p" from the passport in May. As Mr. Minister has now said, it is very interesting, indeed, that the first passport was filed on July 7th, when the current government of the Republic of Serbia was formed. So it was used for some kind of propaganda. After 3 May, when the first 204 passports were distributed, passports were found to be made by mistake and replaced. Then the late affairs began and the chief culprit was declared responsible for these delays for making passports. I must, for Serbia's citizens, remind myself that the equipment cost about 60m euros, 100m dollars, I suppose, is about 60m euros, that the equipment was purchased without a tender and very interesting, obtained by a Serbian Deputy Prime Minister, even more interestingly, by the US Motorola. Mr. Todorovic just made a mistake. He said all the equipment, all the business of making this passport, cost the Republic of Serbia 98m euros. It's a mistake. The total cost is 137m euros, I quote Mr Dacic, not counting the costs the Bureau will have, based on passport making, have so far spent 98m euros, in the past eight years, for these purposes. The contract between the Bureau for making bills, for making passports, is about 29m euros. Next, this assembly discusses the extension of passports for the third time. If you had accepted the first SRS position, if the blue passports were valid until their expiry, until the expiry date, we would have only discussed this issue once and thus saved about 100,000 euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget. When you campaigned against the SRS, you accused us of having a useless discussion in the Assembly. At that time, you were processing data that a daily meeting of the Assembly costs 4 million dinars, meaning two unnecessary sessions -- more than 8 million dinars, or around 100,000 euros. For the money, five apartments, each worth 20,000 euros, could be built for the poor in Serbia. The minister just said that passports will be valid for five years. I have to point out the fact that we've been changing countries a lot lately, and we change documents even more often, it's a huge burden for citizens. Citizens are wasting a lot of time. Imagine how much it costs, how much time and how much money it costs when a million people pull out a particular document, and because of that document, they have to take out, say, two or three certificates? The second thing, a lot of money is lost, if a million passports are made, in five years new passports will have to be removed, 25 euros each, which is 25m euros, converted into apartments within Serbia, that is 1,250 apartments. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think for Serbian citizens the most important question is whether they have a passport and whether they can travel without a visa. It's a good thing we can travel without visas, but a much more important question than these two questions is whether they have money to travel. A free new passport, free of visa waivers when Serbian citizens live in a heavy penny. Since Serbia is ruled by the current police in Serbia, millions of people have been unemployed. In the last year alone, between 185,000 and 225 thousand people have remained unemployed in Serbia, and according to official data, in Serbia, 700,000 people live below the poverty line. They have 40 dinar income per day. They have enough to buy bread and can't even buy bread and a liter of milk. Of course, they have no money for anything else, let alone travel across Europe. I will only draw attention to one more problem, as regards the situation of several hundred thousand Serbs who have been expelled from the Republic of Croatia, now living in Serbia and several tens of thousands of Serbs who have been citizens of Serbia since the beginning, constantly Serbian citizens, who have been born in Serbia, who have participated in war activities in Croatia. The problem is that the Croatian state has filed false and secret charges against these people. According to some data I found on some Croatian sites, it is 72,000 people, 72,000 citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, of Serbian nationality. These indictments are put into drawers and are drawn as necessary, mainly for pre-election purposes and for the purposes of some political reckonings in Croatia. Serbian citizens know that it does not practically pass a month in the last five six years that one of the Serbs is not arrested at the border crossing with Croatia. What's interesting and why we ask the question is that many of these people were in Croatia five, six, even seven times before they were arrested. The charges have not been made public, no people have been arrested. Only when the Croatian state is convinced that these people are intending to return to Croatia, they are being charged with pointless charges, but they are being charged with war crimes. I'll list only two cases from a village near Srdin. The man was convicted of a war crime, sorry for his expression, so it was found at the trial, two kicks in the ass. You all know the case of Svetozar Karan who has been sentenced to 13 years in prison for the crimes he and his ancestors have committed against the Croatian people in the last 500 years. This question is about travel and passport issues. I believe that the Serbian government and the interior minister should work harder to solve this problem. I see you have good communication with the Croatian police. That's not bad, but on the condition that this communication is used to solve this fundamental issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32686	11 minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. It's still 12 minutes away. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32687	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry of the Interior, I want to believe that we will no longer have this situation. This is last year's proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents, which entered the procedure on July 28th 2008. We voted him, the Serbian Radical Party voted to amend the law on December 30th 2008, if I am not mistaken. Now, but a little earlier, he later entered the procedure, but previously discussed here and we also vote on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents. The previous one had two members, this one now has three. We are pleased that the Ministry of the Interior, I assume, is based on the information you received from the field, in article 1, we noticed that when it comes to passports for persons younger than 14 years, you should go with a new proposal. Your proposal was up to three years old, one to three years old. Their importance to be three years. And from three to 14, their importance is to be five years. Mr. Minister, none of us realized that the person who turned three was issued passport and was valid until 14, but that his importance was a total of five years. So, with the first day of the fourth year, he'll be up to nine and another, and that's where it ends. The amendment submitted by Ms Verica Radeta on behalf of the SRS is practically better than that solution we have in the bill, but there is a little problem coming from the ministers of the SAA. Here's the thing. We are not running away from the fact that we say that you cultivate a manner of presence in the National Assembly when the laws are on the agenda you're talking about. That's what your associates do. You agree with the argument of the SRS MPs, I have had the opportunity to see for myself today, when the Energy Minister, Mr Skundric, was here, absolutely agreed, but there is some problem with the acceptance of the amendment. That doesn't hurt at all, and the citizens of Serbia will benefit from that. Do not ever shake hands with what the SRS has proposed, but if it is good and it will benefit the citizens of Serbia, it should be accepted. I suppose you yourself have admitted that there is no fundamental difference as to you, does not change the concept of this law, so if that is so, and in practice it will prove better and that element of security that caused Mrs. Verica Radeta to submit the amendment is more protected than it was by the bill and that is an absolute reason for the amendment to be accepted. A moment ago, in your address to the MPs, you said that you were frequently quoted today. You know, it's a big deal being Minister of the Interior. That's why your colleagues quoted you. I have to quote you this time, but I'm not going back far into the past, not any closer to the past, but what you said today. You say the destruction of the wall surrounding Serbia, related to visa liberalisation. I'm sure you think as much as I do, breaking down the wall around Serbia, but it's not completely broken around Serbia. Because of citizens living in KIM, I'm sure you don't think, as I don't think, that Kosovo and Metohija are not Serbia. It's probably something that got to you. I'm not asking you to explain this specifically, because I'm pretty sure we're thinking the exact same thing. The EU has not given us anything, Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, that is another sentence I will quote, your sentence that I quote. We know it, we always say it is. We accept and remember that last time someone, whether you or one of your associates, said that about 12,500 monthly passport issues, had now increased. We also accept the opinion of citizens who say - it's good to have that passport, so if we can travel, we'll travel, if we don't travel. I am absolutely sure that there will be a number of citizens, hopefully, my wish is also the desire of the SRS that, if it has to be, there will be as few of them as possible. The passport will run out, and they won't be able to travel anywhere, not because they don't want to, not because they don't need to know some world's achievements, to get to know the world, but because they can't for financial reasons. You heard, Mrs. Vesna Pesic said some can't go to Banja Koviljaca. I have often said in my presentations that many Valjevci cannot go to Divchibar and the Uzicans can not go to Zlatibor, and if they never needed visas, they cannot because they do not have enough means to live. I'm curious, Mr. Minister, if anything has changed since an earlier period. The information from this year's period, our citizens who lived in South America, was not technically allowed to apply and to get travel papers, passports there, but had to come to Serbia, which is, in any case, good for them both for their families and for those who want to see them, but these were additional costs for them, about $1,600. I think that would mean a lot to our fellow citizens. Try to do something about it. Many of these days, above all, I would say to politicians, they say that this is also a big victory, that this is one big step towards the EU. We are not running from the EU to observe technical improvements that we in Serbia can use. In that sense, we're not running away. Anything that's modern and modern, let's use it with us, let's develop it. Those who say the EU has no alternative are absolutely aware that everyone working in the EU institutions is well rewarded. I'll get some information. Therefore, the great desire of Eurofanatics to enter the EU at any cost, at the cost of state integrity. And what's the motive? The motive is money. Those who cannot provide enough here in an illegal and illegal way for themselves are trying to get caught on a train going to the EU so they can provide, for example, the following receipts: secretaries and auxiliary staff, only admitted to a working relationship when a profit tax is denied, have profits of 4.377.08 euros, translators, researchers, inspectors, officials and officials, at the beginning of a career, 6.728.66 euros, advisers and administrators 10,430 euros, head of the 15,000 euros department, directors in sectors 16,000 euros. In early 2009, nearly 38,000 officials were employed in EU institutions. The EU's Association Office said that around 7,000 people are engaged in businesses that allow Serbia to join the EU and that there should be around 3.353 people involved in Serbia's EU accession process somewhere else, and it seems to me that this is the biggest motive for some to quickly grab the EU. Slowly, carry out an analysis of everything. What do we gain and what do we lose? Some Eurofanatics very often say Serbia is getting a big chance to use funds from access funds, and they do not say at all how much it will cost Serbian citizens. You don't need to let it out of your sight. I know well that I am now talking about a topic that is on the agenda, because in order to travel to the EU, we need to have passports, in order to have passports, we need to bring a deadline for extending the validity of the old passports. At the beginning of the presentation, I said we wouldn't want to have this topic on the agenda again in the SRS. The travel documents law to change, why not, but not because of the deadline, because we believe the laws should regulate what life imposes, not to pass such laws that will destroy lives in Serbia. Very often this happens to us in the wishes and attempts of some who do not understand what Serbia expects and where it is going. I can't understand some colleagues, I don't know if I escaped from the topic a little, I don't think, forgive me if I did, when the head of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Todorovic suggested that we call ourselves publicly at a session before this one. It was not his wish to make differences, but to call for conscience to certain MPs, who in conversation with us from the SRS pointed to all failures and mistakes, and to be perfectly clear and open, this when I spoke, I meant the Statute of Vojvodina and the Law on determining jurisdiction for the AP Vojvodina. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32688	The time available for the SRS parliamentary group is one minute and 10 seconds. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32689	Mr. Minister, you just called and said that you wanted to answer some questions from the MPs who heard from you in the meantime. You used that time to actually compete with some MPs, and these certainly are not SRS MPs, who are more responsible for putting Serbia on the white Schengen list. We would like to see you competed on who is more responsible for opening new jobs that would allow Serbian citizens to use the grace they received yesterday, or that will take effect on St. Nicholas. You haven't answered the question, Mr. Minister, what about the citizens of the RS who live on KIM? We want an answer to that question. Why did you allow, Mr. Minister, for us to have first and second-class citizens in RS territory? Why would someone living in Belgrade, Zrenjanin, Valjev be ahead of our citizens living in Kosovo Mitrovica, Leposavic, Zvecan? So that's a question you haven't given us an answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32690	The MP's time has been used. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32691	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, members of the Government, the ZES parliamentary group will vote in favour of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, which is on the agenda today, although this could not be concluded from many discussions. The essence of these amendments to the law consists of extending the period of validity of travel documents by one year and we fully understand and support the argument given under the proposal of this law. We also understand and support the need that has been done earlier in order to meet the conditions necessary for visa liberalisation on the road map. One of the conditions was, which is destined to adopt new travel documents guaranteeing the safety of travel documents and I think that the complaint in this case to the ministry of poor assessment is, at the very least, incorrect, because it is primarily about the need to meet the obligations of the road map to allow citizens, as decided on December 19th, to travel to EU countries without visas. In a very strange and unusual way here, we're talking about what that really means? Does it mean for the citizens or not? I think that in all public opinion studies, citizens have also shown that they are interested in what is important and what the government is working on, and that by creating a better opportunity for citizens to have full freedom and the opportunity to travel and to meet EU countries. It was said here that the EU had some mercy and approval and that it did Serbia a favor by putting Serbian citizens on the White Schengen list without doing what was necessary in Serbia. I would like to remind myself that for Serbia, as well as for all other countries that have become EU members, very strict rules and very strict criteria and conditions have been met in order to achieve that goal. If that hadn't been done, we wouldn't have had a decision yesterday on visa liberalisation and citizens from December 19th couldn't travel. In this regard, at the very least, it is a sign of political hatred and in some way an incorrect relationship with all the citizens for whom it is important to know that the institutions in this country are doing everything they can to enable citizens to do what is very important to them. Here it was also said that the degree of crime in society is such that it covers everything else, all other issues, and that we are a country which, including for many who have said this here, does not deserve to be part of Europe, which is not only incorrect, but is also a very incorrect message to the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens deserve to be citizens of Europe, and they also show that by choosing those who will do whatever is necessary to meet these standards, they actually show the importance they have for them. I want to say that, of course, I never fit in the defense of the government, I always think that the government should defend itself, but what is really important and, I don't think it's right for the citizens of Serbia who all those days felt good as citizens, whose authority helped solve some huge criminal cases that are connected not only to Serbia, but to the world, and they just felt the satisfaction of living in a country that is experiencing world recognition for what was well done in that country. I don't think anyone is, in fact, in some way has the right to take away the right as a possibility for citizens to feel good about it. I also want to say that for the first time this year, GRECO, therefore the European Commission for the fight against organised crime and corruption, has abolished the moritoring of Serbia, which only confirms that Serbia has made huge progress and that it confirms that through the institutions of the Serbian state, the fight against organised crime and corruption is being fought in a way that Europe recognises with the effects that Europe also recognises. When we talk about it, there were those who are trying to convince the citizens that they should be around everything that's good news that they feel bad, because there are bad things. And it always seems to me like someone's wishing for bad news, because then there's an argument that he's always pointing them out. When there is good news, then he says – but that is irrelevant, I will remind you that there are still some difficult problems that this country has. Of course, we know of all the problems this country has and, of course, that all the instruments this country has are struggling to solve these problems in the best interests of citizens, and so I think that those who are racing to add in some way their own contribution to what was good news, on the other hand, are trying to prove to the citizens that you are not looking forward to it, because it's not good enough news, but we are, however, if you are looking forward to the good news, too. So, I just want to say that this debate that was actually supposed to be a confirmation that the government had achieved the result of which the deadlines that we voted for were important in the previous period and that by acknowledging that these deadlines were important, because we achieved the objective of which they were important, that we did not open the debate on whether it was a wrong assessment or whether someone was capable or not, so all the capacities that the institutions had used confirmed that the assessment was good, that we would have achieved the goal of establishing the deadlines that we had made in the previous period, and therefore I think that this is simply one technical thing that we should only show that we understood why we had previously made such decisions and that this decision we are now making, because there are still some citizens who are important to make this decision and to extend the period of validity of their travel documents so that they should not be in the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32692	Seven minutes and 30 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Replica. ) In the electronic system, the registered Parliament of the People’s Republic of Rade, you do not have the right to reply. National MP Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32693	The esteemed chairman-in-Office, respected presidency, respected ministers, respected ministry representatives, the United Serbian People's Party's MPs' Group voted in December 2008 for a law to be amended today and will also vote for this law in December 2009. The reason why we will vote for this is very precise and clear, but the shortest said is because of the citizens of Serbia, because of young people, first of all, because of our children and grandchildren. So our parliamentary group will not benefit from a debate in parliament about a law that has only two members over some political points. In this regard, we just want to point out and send our congratulations to the Government, to the Minister and the Ministry, to the members of the Ministry, to the successfully done work and task they have taken over over over the last year. (SRS emissaries leave the National Assembly Hall. In the end, I want to take the opportunity to thank Mr. Minister and members of the Ministry for the job done for the citizens of Novi Sad. A few months ago, we launched an action on the resolution and issue of passports and other personal documents to the citizens of Novi Sad. The ministry has answered the best possible way and the problem, to the satisfaction of the citizens of Novi Sad, has been resolved.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32694	Anyone else want a word? If not, we move on to a search in particular, to the next amendment. The proposal for the addition of a new member – MP Jorvanka Tabakovic – submitted an amendment proposing that a new article 1a be added after Article 1. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, this concludes the search of the bill in particular. Does the Proposer's representative want to give the final word? The word has Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32695	I want to thank everyone who participated in the debate and who stayed until the end. Of course, I also want to thank those who expressed certain views, objections and did not stay until the end, but it is parliament. I have been in parliament since 1992, and of course I know that this is the central place from where, after the people's will, all other authorities in Serbia come from. Anyway, I wanted to say a few important things. Now I have no one to tell them, given that I wanted those who expressed certain attitudes different from what I was talking about. It doesn't matter, I just want to point out. When it comes to deadlines, we now have a bigger problem, and these are personal karate. That's what I'm saying for the public of Serbia. So, according to the ID Act, the deadline for the validity of ID cards is 2011. So far, about a million ID cards have been issued, and so there are more ID cards than there are passports. This is all done by the same people from the Administration of Ms. Kasalice, who is the head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry, Mr. Nedeljkovic is my assistant for information technologies, Mr. Todorovic is the secretary of the ministry. So we'll be waiting for an extremely difficult job in the next period, when it comes to issuing passports, ID cards, which will certainly be several million, where each citizen should have a ID card, new driver's licenses, traffic licenses, registration plates, etc. Given all this, the I.D. Law was passed when Zorice, 2006. It's a five-year term, and it's a propo of those deadlines we talked about. Everyone knew in time and knew there were deadlines and it took five years for them to pull out a new ID card. The question of what it's going to look like in the next one, and I'm talking in time, so we know what kind of problem is ahead of us. It's something we'll be working on, of course, in the next period. When it comes to Kim, I don't think it's a good idea to talk about very important vitals like this. It's not my place to talk about it in public. I call on all the heads of Parliament clubs and all the MPs who want to be informed of what our citizens are doing with KIM on this issue. They can address me as a minister. These are not topics to be talked about publicly, because of our national and state interests. I appeal to all MPs, in political outwitting not to do ourselves any great political harm. On the other hand, the insistence of our ministry, i.e. liberalisation, applies to displaced people with KIM, who are in Serbia, means around 200,000 in other parts of Serbia. When it comes to other questions, I call on all MPs to discuss this at some sessions that do not have a public character. Of course, in the end I don't think anyone should compete, Serbia has achieved great success, no one has given her anything. Once again, I want to say, we have truly met all the criteria set before us and I hope that this is only the first stage, that we are followed by the freezing of the transitional agreement, that we are followed by the submission of the candidacy and that there is a positive response to that candidacy, and of course it follows us to meet all the standards and values that will lead us to being full members of the EU. Not because of the EU, but because of Serbia, because of Serbian citizens. In that sense, I really welcome you all and once again I want to thank all the MPs who participated in the debate. I am indeed as Minister of the Interior and as Deputy Prime Minister, or I do not know what titles and functions I have, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, ready to participate in the work of all committees and in the work of the plenary session of the Assembly as much as it is in the jurisdiction of our Ministry. I repeat once again, I think that this whole Europe has spoken good words about Serbia yesterday, and I really think that the Serbian Parliament should not be the worst place to talk about Serbia in these days. In any case, I really want to congratulate all of you, and above all, who have passed all these laws that have helped us get visa liberalisation and, of course, everyone in the Serbian government who has worked on it both in previous governments and in all political parties that support European integration and, above all, to the citizens of Serbia and our people, because I think it is of our national and national interest. This is a great victory for Serbia, and I hope it's only the first. That's why I welcome you and invite you to vote for amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-01-0.u32696	I thank Mr. Minister, especially on the closing sentences, where he recognized something that implies for us who are constantly here, that we have also installed ourselves in all these activities related to visa liberalisation. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank you again for your cooperation today. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
