ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16897	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So on 10 September 2008, we received a memo from the Secretary of the Assembly of Mr. Veljko Odalovic on the application of the Rules of Procedure in the use of official cars. After that, we got a second memo that regulates that thing. For a long time, however, I have witnessed how this decision is not being implemented, or how it is being broken. In the part of the city where I live for days, the official cars of the National Assembly are used to drive to work and take the secretary out of your office. Not only that, these official cars are used to carry out Saturday’s drinking purchases of the supplies of certain families. So, we make a decision on the Administrative Committee on the founding of the fund, we allocate money for the solidarity logs to help vulnerable citizens, and in this way, we make public money, taxpayers' money. Today, from nine o'clock, I can't get a decision from the Administrative Board and Mr. Veljko Odalovic about how to use official cars. So, this is what the public of Serbia needs to know, what happens to official cars, when used and who uses them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16898	It's been two minutes, Mr. Dimitrievich, thank you. You'll get an answer, because it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to a breach of procedure at the time of the session. You didn't talk about it, so please, in the future, when you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure that it really does refer to a breach of procedure. Otherwise, you'll get answers to all the questions. Mr. Vladan Batic is advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16899	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament 27. In a daily newspaper, Madam President, news came today that the Serbian Parliament, whose head you are headed, provided a list of MPs who did not pay for some solidarity logs. It's a uniform, Madam President. I expect an apology from you. First of all, I didn't know there were solidarity logs. Secondly, it's some communist relic and relapse, this collective humanism, this collective solidarity, putting on a pillar of shame people who aren't... I wasn't even at the register. For your information, I, by my will, pay for one NGO a quarter of my salary, ten of your stinking diaries a month for one family. From the new year to the end of the year, ten, it means 120 a year. I suggest there are no more diaries in parliament. If we have to deal with the consequences of the crisis, let's bear them and there's not a single diary, all the journals to pay for some unsettled children, but to know where that money goes. That would be fair. This is cheap demagogy, hypocrisy, and now people are called, like, I've been making excuses -- I haven't been there. It's ugly and sad. Madam President, the entire parliament and the vast majority in parliament are ashamed of what the government did when it suggested that people who have salaries or pensions over 12,000 be taxed by 6%, such as these "bumbles" and thugs at the head of public enterprises, who have ten, twenty or 100 times the salary. It's a social-responsible government balance. Let's also have a restaurant, or five times more expensive restaurant service. It's been two minutes. Thank you. I thank you, but I expect your apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16900	Mr. Batic, there's nothing I can do to apologize for something that isn't in my knowledge that happened at all. So, if the services have given any information that violates the reputation of our work, that's one question. I absolutely don't know what information she's got in the paper. I'll get a glimpse of it. As you know, the board's decision is about the diaries, and we can ask the board if we have any dilemmas about it, but I absolutely know nothing about the information itself, and I can't make any apologies at this point. Ms. Milica Vojić-Markovic is advocating the Rules of Procedure, i.e. she has a replica. Excuse me, did you want a replica, or are you advertising the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jovanovic? Yes, then you have an advantage over the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16901	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we must do something to stop this kind of self-indulgence of an institution for which we have taken responsibility by entering it. Of course, the country is in a difficult situation, of course people don't have money, but it's even more vulgar than anything that's ever been done, the way we're trying to restore dignity to this Parliament. We can appeal to the decisions of the Administrative Board. How can we respect decisions made by the Administrative Committee that are inadmissible? What does this senseless denunciation and the apparition of certain MPs as people who are arrogant and uninterested in the fate of citizens? Which one of us raised the logs? You don't think we can and should be so miserable that we wave those diaries? We don't want to go to "Dancing to Dreams" for some people and in such a way that we can get our political points together. We don't raise the journal, the daily goes for humanitarian purposes. A lot of people do it here and it's our personal act. This confirmation of MPs will not restore lost trust in this institution, but responsible work, showing some result, and there is no result. Remind those MPs who play with people who can't normally live in this country when they represent us as some who come here just for the restaurant. We entered this congregation to make something out of the earth, and to justify poverty in the country in such a way that we are ready to divide it, and we do not have touch points with that world. He's right, MP Batic. Someone has to answer for that. The Management Board can't decide what we're going to do with our journals. We spend our journals the way we decide, because they're our journals. Or shut them down. That's what the Management Board can do. The Liberal Democratic Party directs its diaries to those it wants to help, and we judge who they are. Not one parliamentary group has decided to help, we have seen a girl who needs that help; tomorrow she will decide to help someone else. It all became pointless. It's been two minutes. Thank you. If you want to restore dignity to this congregation, then start respecting it; not you personally, I think the institutions you are leading must show that respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16902	Although some actions may affect the reputation and dignity of the congregation, I remind MPs that advertising of the Rules of Procedure can only apply to infringements of procedures in today’s day. Please focus, possibly, in such a way as to show injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. It's a replica from yesterday, isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16903	Since the EPP started, let me just say that DSS MPs have paid their diaries for January 31st. I don't have to tell who and what, because I think it's a personal act, but it's simply because of Mr. Konstantinovic, if he gives the services information. My replica refers to what the minister had last night as the final word and responded to a few things that I had potentiald. I wish we could just finish this story of ours. I use a stenogram. He said, "We have done a public opinion survey that has shown that the degree, or level of awareness of the importance of the environment of citizens has grown very much," since he was minister. I've been collecting news and media articles. Exactly 470 titles were and most of them were related... And that's: 400 eco-bombs in Serbia, then everything about Loznica, Forest on my feet, "Long" - an ecological bomb, "Star - Helios", that I don't speak any further, because I don't think I have time for that much. Furthermore, the gentleman said, and it refers to what I was saying, that while he was president of the Assembly there were no more environmental laws, or no more environmental laws. It's not true that I said there were environmental laws in the procedure while he was a minister. In the second paragraph of his presentation he says – then we have not passed several laws. The fact is, they were in congregation procedure, of course they were in congregation procedure. The chemicals were, the Chemical Weapons Act was in 2007, the ionizing radiation was three times in the procedure, it was non-ionizing four times in the procedure, so, and he knows what I'm talking about. What I simply have to react to is a sentence that "the question of car recycling, in my opinion, was very malignancies." It wasn't a small question. The question was clearly formulated so that both the public and I and everyone else who deals with this topic would get answers, because in these materials that I have... On the other hand, materials were released in very serious media, which say: Recyclation is still in the haze, recycling companies have received licenses that they did not ask for, but not the procedure by which they should issue certificates to citizens for 1,000 euros in discounts. If we don't have the interests of doing recycling old for a new one, logically that we won't accept it, they say one of the ones that he stated had met the legal requirements. What I wanted most to comment on is a sentence that the minister said, which I think is scandalous: "Please help us if you know someone to meet these conditions without being accidentally registered by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. We'll do it very quickly, because we think everyone has to participate in the recycling industry. "Mr. Minister, there is something called the public competition institution. That's what I was criticizing. Needs a public competition, reports who meets the requirements, answers who's interested, and it's all over. Please don't let the MPs chase you around the Assembly to tell you and whisper to you the name of a company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16904	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16905	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Resolute Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS-JS Parliament Club expects, above all, that the adoption of the environmental legislative proposals, which we are talking about today and which we will talk about in the coming days, will lead to the application of a stricter criminal policy for polluters throughout Serbia. We really want to believe that their application will create a legal framework for better environmental protection, recycling industry, as well as the management of hazardous waste, chemicals and toxins. It is evident that the adoption of these legal proposals will regulate the area of waste management, as well as improve existing environmental laws. It has already been said, the legal proposals are in line with EU directives, but it seems to me, this is not just about harmonising the law with EU regulations, this is where we actually raise questions about the survival of our manufacturing industry. It's simple, we agree, we have to change those extremely bad, negative habits and move on to something cleaner. Of course, we also want to say that in the process, it is among other things, the EU's accession to Serbia's legislation in the area of the environment is indeed in one high place. Some estimates that have repeatedly been made public say that out of 20-30% of the legislation in the EU accession process apply precisely to the environment sector. On the basis of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, specific chapters are planned on the environment, energy, health care, and a particular section concerns the environment, air quality and climate change. What, unfortunately, cannot be defined as positive is that, it seems to me, since 2002, there has always been a set of laws in the assembly procedure in the field of the environment, but they always seem to be left for the end, always being left out somehow, and most of these environmental laws are eventually withdrawn from the assembly procedure. As priority legislative proposals in this first set of environmental laws, the proposal for a waste management law and a bill on packaging and packaging waste, which has so far been laid down three times in front of MPs and has always been removed from the agenda. We want to express hope that this time it will not be a case, because it is clearly necessary to introduce order in this area. When it comes to the proposal for a waste management law, the reasons for the adoption of laws which, among other things, are those referred to in the legislative proposal: the establishment of integrated waste management, from the creation of waste, through its collection, transport, storage, treatment, to the final disposal of waste; the establishment of modern principles, types and classification of waste, waste management planning, waste management competences, waste management organisations, waste management reports and databases, as well as the financing of waste management, etc. By supporting this legislative proposal, we primarily want to support the goal that is actually being achieved, which is to provide and ensure conditions for the reduction of waste generation and, above all, through the development of cleaner technologies and more efficient use of natural resources, reuse and recycling of waste, the extraction of secondary raw materials from waste, the use of waste as energy, as well as fair disposal. When it comes to waste management, we believe that special attention should be paid to the establishment of regional recycling centres where waste from several cities or municipalities would be processed. Bearing in mind the fact that municipalities are unevenly developed, that some municipalities do not even have the most basic means to collect and dispose of waste, it is necessary to consider in this direction how to help local self-government to organise themselves as best as possible. It's the multiple importance of these regional centers. First, a number of new jobs will be opened, and on the other hand, energy savings and nature conservation will be added. The proposed packaging and packaging waste laws regulate the conditions which packaging must meet for the placing on the market, the management of packaging and packaging waste and the reporting of packaging and packaging waste. Therefore, the basic principle of this law is the division of the responsibilities of all economic operators according to the principle – pay polluter. It should be pointed out that the provisions of this law would apply to packaging from imports, packaging which is produced and placed on the market in Serbia and to all packaging waste, and are excluded, as among other things, containers for road, rail, water or air transport. The packaging can be placed on the market on condition that it meets the basic requirements relating to the environment, safety and protection of the packaged product, and that it does not exceed the limits of lead, live and other harmful components, among other things, are listed in the light of this legislative proposal. This law would therefore, in particular, regulate the storage and disposal of packaging waste, while the resolution ministry would be specifically responsible for establishing and keeping registers on quantities and types of packaging and packaging waste. The adoption of the draft law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction would allow for the implementation of the Convention on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction. The implementation of the Convention, which was joined in 2000, would be within the competence of two bodies. First of all, in the section relating to the production, use and use of chemical substances from the list one, two and three for military purposes, the Convention would be conducted by the Ministry of Defence, and when these substances are used, that is, when used for other purposes, for example for agricultural or medical purposes, the Ministry of Environment and spatial planning is responsible. In addition, this law also regulates the implementation of international inspection and co-operation with the international inspectorate, as well as issues related to the education and business of the national body. As far as the proposal for a chemical law is concerned, above all, we support the basic objective which is to achieve the adoption of this law, which is to regulate the safe placing of chemical products on the market as the first stage of the life cycle of chemical management, which is a very important aspect for all later stages of governance. It should also be noted that the adoption of this proposal would establish a single chemical management system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I would also like to say that if we were to adopt a Bill on Biocidal Products, we would improve another single system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia concerning the placing on the market and use of biocidal products. What is also very important is that this law will ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, improve the free movement of these products with EU countries, ensuring, of course, the competitiveness of the economy, while achieving the development of safer alternatives. Finally, I would also like to say that the SPS MPs will also support the proposal for a law on protection against non-ionising radiation, as well as the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear security. So it is about legal proposals that have already been found several times in the congregation procedure. It is about proposals in which the most important domestic experts from these areas participated. For both legislative proposals, which we consider to be extremely important, a public debate has been held. The proposal for a law on the protection against non-ionising radiation aims to regulate the principles, conditions and measures of human health and the environment against the harmful fact of non-ionising radiation in the use of these sources, control of enforcement, as well as accountability, while the proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety introduces a new, higher standard in implementing measures against ionising radiation, nuclear and radiation security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16906	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable MPs, Mr. Minister, before I address the laws that are before us, environmental laws, I have an obligation, a task and an honor to read to you a letter from a Serbian citizen who wants to, above all, address parliament and the minister with one request on behalf of all citizens. It is not just an ordinary citizen, although it is one of those little big people, who is genuinely concerned about both Serbia and the world. It is about Mr. Petar Gelencar, my Somborac, who is known to all of us for giving Mr. Predrag Markovic a large, most difficult postcard in this House to the Assembly during the presidential term of office of Mr. Predrag Markovic, who is now standing in front of Parliament Speaker Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic. What he wanted to tell you as his message to citizens is, of course, about the adoption of these laws. "Dear MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, you have found one of the most responsible jobs to determine the future of Serbia. All the laws that determine our future, but only those who need to determine our relationship to nature and its preservation in this technological expansion show whether we will have a future at all. The emissions of 800 tonnes of carbon dioxide that is being injected daily into our atmosphere accelerates global warming of the planet, changes the climate and threatens to make the world of the earth disappear under apocalyptic circumstances. Nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, radiation from which no one can hide any more, holes in the ozone envelope, multiple increases in incurable diseases, including the cancers of the front, are the price we pay for the consumer fever of modern civilization. Wars and economic crises have shown that people are constantly searching for new places where they will try their Earth's century. Villages have changed countries and continents, migration is one of the ways in which people are expressed and mutual agreements and misunderstandings of the people. What has proved to be the only truth we have learned from these powerful human movements is that all our actions and all our attempts are condemned to begin, implement and end on earth. There may be a back-up home, but there's no such thing as a back-up planet. Earth is the only place in the universe where a man, as imperfect as it is, can survive. With carelessness and irresponsibleness, and with great wealth and greed, man has endangered his last foothold, his only habitat, his own planet. Sometimes it seems that the cry of the conscious is in vain, sometimes it seems that the warnings from all sides do not find those who will hear them, sometimes it seems that we are destined to fall into the abyss and disappear as if we have never even walked, breathed and created, or fought on a beautiful ball of heaven in space. All it takes is a little effort, with every single individual's efforts, to change the future of the planet and make sure our survival is safe. You today need to make this effort by passing laws that in our society will finally make a commitment to the state to safeguard the only environment that we have. Be aware of every member of this bill, fix it if you can, support it with a positive example and allow them to be implemented. The laws you're making today are guaranteed to the future not only us, but our children, all of our descendants. There's no such thing as a reserve world and a reserve planet. This is the only one for all nations and races, for all desires and aspirations, for all feelings and ideals. Let's keep what we've got, 'cause what we've got isn't small. We are not the owners of nature, we are its unbreakable part, its inalienable property and any attempt to put ourselves above it will be severely punished. The wisdom of the conscious says: We have not inherited the land from our fathers, we have borrowed them from the offspring, we owe them the right to live. Happy work, ladies and gentlemen, the chosen people. Gelenchar Peter, from Somboro. "Mr. Gelenchar asked me, along the way, to hand over his letter to Mr. Secretary, which includes some videos that he needs to look at, so I'll do it at the end of my presentation. What I will say further in my presentation is that it is indeed a question of all the questions why the EU has put so much pressure on us and blackmailed us so much that, by an urgent procedure, we pass the Law on the prohibition of discrimination, and that by who knows which time we might be able to reconcile the "sargarep list", or Schengen list, which is, in fact, a famous carrot at the end of the stick that we won't really get close to, and that it hasn't pushed us, insisted and blackmailed us to pass this set of laws. Perhaps from the guilt that she, along with the United States, put us most at risk and brought us into a rather difficult and almost unexplainable situation. The set of these laws is really very important and we from the NS have studied them in detail and carefully. We've also studied the amendments of the colleagues who submitted them. We have submitted new amendments that we thought would be useful, and we are satisfied that a significant number of our amendments have already been accepted. Since my colleague from DSS Milica Vojić-Markovic really did a very professional and detailed analysis yesterday and took a very critical look at these laws, I would not repeat some of its thesis and conclusions, but I would like to add a few very important things that we must consider when defining for the adoption of these laws concerning the environment. Ecology today is no longer just a science that deals with an environment, it's a science that deals with survival on this planet, and I have to tell you, in Serbia more than anywhere. Our goal is to introduce these laws a certain ecological policy that will solve those, at first glance, very decisive, environmental problems. We're going to culture our relationship to our chemical weapons, which we've been known to be a force so far. The recycling of waste, in which there is a huge economic resource, changing citizens' awareness according to ecology, so that many will realize that flowers in jars are not saved by scraps, chewing gums and nylon bags. Changing habits to the environment, so that our decoration of tourist destinations will not be a bottle and plastic or tetrapacking. We're going to cut stays in solariums, but we're not going to give up cell phones, and we're not going to give up excessive use of television. The application in practice of these laws, by personal choice, seems to me, will still be quite selective. What is the real environmental problem of Serbia, what is the issue of Serbia's concern, but also of the region, which we will not be affected by these laws, are the consequences of the famous NATO aggression, better known as the "Merciful Angel". For the sake of the public of Serbia, it is important to say that, apart from the irreparable human casualties in this aggression, material damage has been estimated at between 200,000 and 400,000 billion dollars. He was exiled to Serbian animals from Kosovo and Metohija, we are morally poisoned by all kinds of divisions, we are permanently radioactiveally contaminated, with inconspicuous consequences for Europe, the region, the Balkans in particular. 113 locations of impoverished uranium, plutonium and other radioactive substances have been bombed. Land remediation was done only in 2005, but it is an impossible mission because the real fact has already gone deep into the ground, groundwater, into buildings, jeopardizing the true lives of all who live in these areas. It concerns the fact that there is no means and that there is no access, under the pretext that there is no such means, total monitoring of the effects of NATO aggression, because the poored uranium has a half-life of only 4.5 billion years, while Neptune 237 and plutonium 239, which are more carcinogenic than the poored uranium, have a half-life of just a few hundred thousand years. Translated, it means that Serbia and Bosnia, including Iraq and Kuwait, are permanently contaminated. Furthermore, 36,219 plane crashes on this country are with extended facts and duration, not just until today, they last forever. What is true about the consequences of NATO aggression -- NATO aircraft alliances are not and will never again be adept. They remain above Serbia forever. I will quote, in addition to this, American scientist Dr. Helen Kaldicot, who said in 2001: “The poored uranium is actually uranium 238, which remains after the fissional element of uranium is extracted from ore and used as fuel for weapons and nuclear reactors. 700,000 tons of this discarded radioactive material has been accumulated for the past 60 years across the United States, until the US military finds it valuable – twice the density of lead, and through the armor the tank passes like a knife through cheese. Since it was free and available in large quantities, bullets and grenades from the poored uranium were cheaper for production and a good way to free America from balasty radioactive waste that no one will receive." Unfortunately, all that radioactive waste of America received Serbia, and paid it at an immensely high price. About 10,000 tonnes were thrown at Serbia. We'll pay that price further. That price will be paid by our descendants. Something shy and discreet is only now in Europe asking the question, of course, in some countries very responsible, as the Italian government deals with this issue very closely, the issue of Balkan syndrome and soldiers who have suffered from living in these areas. In 1999, in May, the SRJ filed a complaint against the NATO Alliance against Strasbourg, because, among other things, taking into account all these permanent damages, NATO violated the Convention on the Environment, the Convention on the Protection of World Heritage, the Stockholm Declaration on the Environment, the Convention on the Use of Forbidden Weapons, the Vienna Convention on the Protection of the Ozone, the Montreal Protocol, the Resolution on the Protection of Minorities, the Resolution on Discrimination of National Minorities. One of the questions that the minister has to declare and to deal with this ministry (it is the most competent and to bring it to the government) is – will this government have the responsibility and respect, because of its citizens, because of these consequences that are growing every day, and the culmination comes only over a few decades, will it have the strength to find the means to carry out a total monitoring of the space exposed to NATO aggression, with objective consideration of all the consequences? Will it have the strength to still accuse this NATO alliance of the inexplicable damage it has done us, primarily because of the deadly danger, the permanence, which it has exposed to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? To stop talking about NATO alliances and bombings as a friendly act and the desire to make a political turn with us, we all know that political changes do not happen in such a way, it is true that NATO's alliance and the United States of Serbia then tried to destroy, and for a very banal reason -- to free themselves from their nuclear waste, which, according to their scientist, no one wanted. We had to.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16908	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. Ms. Marina Ragush, as an authorised representative of the SRS Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16909	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to you in advance if there is a break in the exhibition, given that this is my second day at high temperature. I expected the system to work, so I'd be able to speak from the scene. I'm not complaining, I'm just saying I'm sorry and sorry to all those present in advance. Mrs. Djeric, of course, it is the state's obligation to act on everything that you have stated as brutal proof of the true nature of the NATO alliance. The Serbian Radical Party will also talk today about all locations bombed by impoverished uranium, how it affected the lives of the population, what the state, especially after October 5th, did on this issue and why all the effects of the bombing on the poor uranium were so much awaited, and will be announced only this year 2009. What the SRS also intends to do is present today to the Serbian public all that we intend to assess, the wing of the public's eyes, which are truly confidential and reliable data from experts on what location, how and what consequences after the bombing, during the 78 days of the campaign, are known as the "Mercy Angel" action. What I plan to do... Unfortunately, I cannot speak in plural, given that, as you can see, all I am left of the SRS MPs, but make sure that everything they have prepared for this regular session of parliament here to tell all of you, as well as the public in Serbia. I'd have to fence myself at the beginning, I'm not an expert in the field of environmental science, and if it happens to steal a termological error, I hope that the gentlemen of the Ministry, as well as the ladies present, will be able to correct me, deny me, and indicate some new information that has, unfortunately, not been available to me. The National MP Marina Ragush holds the map in her hand. ) What I also intend to talk about may better show this map Mr. Radisa Ilic prepared. I hope the cameras can catch this and record it, so Serbia can see it. My colleague Radisa Ilic is, by the way, a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection. I'm gonna try to hold this so all the cameras can record. This is what nuclear waste storage in the territory of the Republic of Serbia should look like. This map, as a symbol of a large nuclear waste storage facility, will be sent to the Serbian public, the chairman of the Committee and the minister, who I hope is present at the moment. What's this about? The Science Ministry working group proposed that the government of the Republic of Serbia be formed as soon as possible to find the location for the permanent disposal of radioactive waste in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Aleksandar Peric, adviser to the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for Ecology, then said that the task force has designated 16 macrolocations, but 13 has been selected, as Vojvodina as a cereal dump from a category of possible locations. He added that the proposed sets of macrolocations are in three regions in Serbia. But what was fragrant then, and we insist that the present minister tells us what the locations are, is that the locations remain a state secret. The people and the Serbian public must know, especially because Vojvodina has been kicked off the map of nuclear waste storage, what the waste really is, how it will affect the environment and what locations it is. The dump is being created according to all security parameters, then he spoke, and where exactly so far it's a state secret, so as not to raise unnecessary tension and cause fear in the local population. Locations will be detected, but only after the education of the population what is actually a permanent disposal of waste. We have, of course, some information when it comes to the storage of nuclear waste. There are scientists from our dominant center, such as Vinci, who have decided to hold a regular session of the Assembly. They have sent and delivered certain materials to the SRS parliamentary group, which we will, of course, bring to the Serbian public, so that the Serbian public can decide what is really the current environmental situation in Serbia. Given that ecology is not an object and an area that concerns only one country and one people, we can say that the entire region and the entire planet are at risk. These are, ladies and gentlemen, questions I will try on behalf of the SRS Group, and in the interest of the Serbian public, today, to launch, in the hope that I will get qualified answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16910	Thank you. Mr Bozidar Delic, authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16911	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days we are talking about a very important set of laws, about environmental laws. At a time when we were educated, we often talked about how man's knowledge, his technologies, beats nature. Now, at the beginning of the 21st century, we realize that man has come to the moment when he will defeat himself, that is, because of the work of man and these high technologies, and the survival of the globe. As a result, the last few years around the world have been doing a lot of environmental work, and a lot of work is being done to introduce technologies that will pollute the environment less. Highly developed countries, for example, in Europe, Norway and Sweden, target almost 50% of their investments precisely in the development of new technologies or clean, ecological technologies. When it comes to our country, these laws say we are late for Europe and for the world and even for our neighbours. However, it is good that we have started to talk about these laws, it is good that we will adopt these laws, because a whole set of 15 environmental laws can be said to be of quality, to be in line with European legislation and, if implemented in practice, to contribute to a much better protection of the environment in our country than it has been so far. When it comes to the law banning chemical weapons, its production, storage and use, our country joined this Convention in 2000 to ban the production, storage and use of chemical weapons. As a accession to the Convention, she has committed herself to destroying all cattle of chemical weapons. Our country, as you know, was a chemical weapons producer and belonged to a small group of countries that owned both technology and chemical weapons production facilities. This has been destroyed in previous years, and this law, which was certainly necessary, also allows for the international inspection provided for by the Convention to be carried out in our country. In order to implement the measures provided for in the Convention, a special committee shall be established to implement the Convention. We in SNS are sensitive whenever it comes to the formation of some new commissions, agencies, because we always think about whether it means new employment in the state administration, which is still approaching around 30,000. One of the important laws we've been talking about these two days is the law on protection against ionic radiation and nuclear danger. This is a very important law, which strengthens the nuclear and radiation security regime in our country and our obligations in the area arising from adopted standards and directives of the international community. We've already had two, I can say freely, the accent, not even in our immediate surroundings, but you all must remember Chernobyl; although it was far from our country, the consequences of Chernobyl felt in our country as well. Then you have a war in Bosnia and the use of poor uranium in the vicinity of Sarajevo and some other locations and, normally, aggression in 1999 and a large amount of poor uranium that was used by NATO's pact on our country. A colleague who had previously spoken of this said the dangers that this poses for our country. We don't have all the information from Kosovo and Metohija, where the impoverished uranium was used in the largest quantities. But if we have the knowledge that Italian soldiers have come to that territory for a month or two days after the use of poor uranium and that there are already dozens who have died or hundreds who have suffered from this radiation disease, then we can only assume the consequences of this population living on Kosovo and Metohija's territory today. I can say that our country did not welcome it in 1999 and that our institutions did not have adequate measuring instruments. Since I was alone in that territory, my people were examined on VMA in 1999 and 2000. Doctors said that they work with what they have and that there are much better instruments and apparatus that could reveal clues if some people came into contact with the poored uranium. The colleague just mentioned four or five billion years ago, how long it took for this uranium to disintegrate, plutonium, etc., but only to break down to 50% or reduce 50% of radiation. When I explained it to the press, I usually did it the following way: if we say that in these 20 centuries the new era on the globe lived 80 generations of people, in order to reduce the radiation in our country by half, there should be 188 million generations. That's why I fully agree with my colleague's finding that our country has been polluted with poor uranium for most of the time. The locations in Serbia have been cleared as much as possible. However, it is important to know that the particles of poor uranium travel through water, air, food, and can happen that in this period of 4.7 billion years they can also tour the globe. One particle of five microns, which can be introduced into the human organism through air, water and food, will lead to this man dying safely, whether in six months or ten years, it is already a matter of predisposition of the organism and measures that a man will take, but many of my colleagues and many soldiers who have defended Kosovo and Metohija's territory have died in 1999 and 2000. It says here that the information is not hidden, but try to find out on VMA or anywhere, at the Ministry of Health, how many people are sick, especially how sick those who were in the territories where the poor uranium was used. You'll never get to those facts. It is commonly said that in Serbia following NATO aggression, the number of cancer, leukemia, etc. I doubled. That's not enough. Our state is obliged to provide state-of-the-art technology and instruments to ensure that people, not only those who were in Kosovo and Metohija, because today the whole of Serbia is at risk, can, in time, through checks, find clues and act preventively, to reduce the effects of this radioactive radiation. This law also provides for procedures in the event of nuclear incidents and liability for nuclear damage. For us, again, it is problematic to set up an agency to protect against ionic radiation and Serbia's nuclear security. We know that it would be good to set up such an agency, that it does these jobs as entrusted jobs, but we think that then the Ministry of Environment Protection should, on the other hand, give up the works of people and if this agency is formed, that it does not affect the increase in the number of people who will be employed in the state sector. Our amendments to this law aim to regulate more precisely certain issues from the work of the Agency, especially when it comes to temporary and permanent nuclear waste storage. Special interventions have been made in connection with the deadlines for the implementation of this law. There is no excuse for these deadlines to be so high, even when it comes to sublegal acts, and also when it comes to adapting certain organisations, because if we have to wait ten years for certain elements of this law to come to the stage, then the very essence of the law would be lost, and various abuses may be possible. As for the law on protection against non-ionising radiation, it is also important, because today human health is threatened by a large number of devices located in our immediate vicinity. Here, each of us has a cell phone, someone even more. This law therefore speaks of protection against electromagnetic radiation, such as ultraviolet and ultraviolet, infrared radiation, radio frequency radiation, laser radiation, ultrasound, etc. This is important because by prescribing closer measures, by prescribing control measures when introducing different devices, there is much to be done to help people, because the fact is that many devices are being introduced, that people are using them, and that they are not sufficiently educated about what adverse consequences these devices can produce on their health. When it comes to the chemical law, we believe that the single chemical management system is the need of the Republic of Serbia, and it is achieved by this law. In addition to ensuring a high level of protection of human life and human health and the environment, this law harmonizes our regulations with EU regulations. The essence of our remarks on this law, which have been translated into a number of amendments, is that because of the delay in adopting EU rules and their entry into force with a delay in EU countries, our country does not turn into a dump of chemicals that are banned in the EU, that chemical factories and industries with so-called. dirty technologies don't transfer to our country. Let me try to explain it by one example. You have recently read in the means of informing about the color factory, about a barrel that was given to peasants around Georgia and that they kept water for drink or water for household use. Several years ago, when it comes to nitro-based paints, the European Union urged its producers to reduce the production of nitro-based paint by 10% each year. These colors will be completely banned in the EU in 2010 and all colors will have to be produced on an ecological basis, i.e. on a water base. There is no such ban in Serbia. Serbia today is full of colors, varnishes, which are produced precisely on a nitro-based basis. All these factories that are made in Serbia or that co-operate with the EU's parent factories have a huge amount of these colors on a nitro-based basis being transferred to our country. By the time we adopt this regulation that we can't use bows or paints on a nitro-based basis, we're really going to be a dump, because Europe has freed itself and all these quantities are now being transferred to Serbia or countries that are similar to Serbia. As far as the chemical agency is concerned, we know that it is necessary and that this law has well regulated its functioning, we just wonder how many people it is, who will pay those 40 or 50 people, and whether the Ministry of Environment, in collaboration with other ministries, at the expense of the number of employees in the ministries now and in other organisations dealing with these issues, will work not to exceed the number of people who are now employed in the state administration. As far as waste management and packaging and packaging waste laws are concerned, these laws are extremely important and Serbia is late compared to Europe and many of its neighbours. The principle that normally applies throughout Europe -- that the polluter pays, is also in our law, at the very beginning, however, I am not quite satisfied that this principle has been translated into members of this law. We have given our amendments to the Agency's work and how we see that Serbia should organise the collection of packaging waste, especially PET packaging, and we believe that the bill promoter will take care when he reads our amendments. That in a short time Serbia can achieve very good results in this area may serve an example of Croatia. Croatia introduced a deposit system to collect PET packaging several years ago. It thus opened 2,100 new jobs; it collected 83,000 tonnes of that packaging waste in the first year, worth about 67m euros, or a billion bottles of PET packaging. In this way Croatia was soon shoulder to shoulder with countries that have a far longer tradition in this area because they collect between 80% and 90% of packaging. In Serbia, similar results could be achieved, in my opinion. Serbia imports about 40,000 tonnes of granulate each year from which it later... Mr. Delicic, it's been two minutes. I'll just finish, if that's all right. You got it. )......................................................................................................... a real PET packaging. Only 5% of the packaging used in Serbia is recycled and used for other purposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16912	You can continue within the second available time, if you like? No, I don't. ) The word has Oliver Dulic, Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16913	I'd like to establish a few important questions. I wanted at the end of this bloc, when the heads of the parliamentary groups, or authorised representatives, presented their opening statements, gave some concrete answers. A few issues that are open are very important and I am glad that during this debate, today, tomorrow, or Monday, we will have the opportunity to give detailed answers to them. Firstly, I would like to immediately respond to Mr Delic's one thesis, which I can responsibly argue is not correct, which is that Serbia has now become a storage facility for the various types of substances that are banned, whose production is prohibited in EU territory. According to existing legislation, which will be strengthened when we adopt these laws that we are discussing today, imports of technology that is banned from the territory of the country from which technology comes. It's an integral part of the environmental impact assessment. I can argue that all the technologies that have entered in the meantime are technologies that have been accepted, with different certificates that have been accepted on EU territory. What's the problem is that when dealing with waste materials that occur during technological processes, they are not treated as planned, in accordance with the law. When one of the MPs says that, yes, there is talk of environmentalism and comes out with news articles about negative examples, it is precisely what it says about the activities of this ministry, because if it were not for the activities of the Ministry, these negative examples would not have been revealed. I have to point out one thing - we are aware that there are still many violations of the law that we still need to reach in Serbia today. When we get to them, we try to make sure that those who break the laws are strictly sanctioned, that the damage that comes to the environment is remedied, that they pay high penalties and that they finance the resolution of those damages, and that we seem preventative that this is no longer happening in the future. I'm not going to tell you about our problems right now, like the ministries, or the problems our inspection faces when it tries to reveal all these cases, but what I can say is that these laws were missing so that we could act even more effectively. The environment ministry has managed to break through one species, not media blockades, but to put aside the environment as less important compared to daily news. I'm telling you this, we can document it from different sides just using negative examples, but using positive examples to prevent negative examples from happening. When we talk about the media image work, I ask you not to be personal in it, but to be objective. I said very clearly yesterday – so we are all in charge, and we are all to blame, if we as people who create this country's policy, whether we were in government or in opposition, contribute to such an important topic (and I see that we all agreed that the topic of environmental protection is important) is one of the dominant topics. It is up to us that citizens recognize it as a dominant topic, and it is up to us that citizens are awakened to participate in environmental actions; not in those actions organised by this ministry, but in actions that they organise themselves to make their environment, the environment where they live and work much cleaner and better. At first I want to warn you of one thing. These laws are very important. Discussing these laws can cause various kinds of consequences. I'm talking about the political consequences, but I'm also talking about the consequences of public harassment. You can, of course, promote the policy of your parties through a debate on environmental laws, but please do not disturb the public. It's very important that we speak here today with argument. The problem with the impoverished uranium is a major problem the country has faced and will face in the future. It is my duty to present the right information at the beginning of this debate today. So, according to data available by the Serbian Army and available to the Ministry of Environment, during NATO aggression on our country, ammunition with impoverished uranium in Serbia-Montenegro's territory has been operated at four locations in Serbia, 84-85 locations in Kosovo and Metohija territory and one location in Montenegro's territory. None of these locations were north of the Vranje municipality. All four locations in Serbia have been decontaminated and rehabilitated during the campaigns in 2002 and a permanent monitoring of the impact of poored uranium on the environment, on food chains, etc. When someone comes out and spreads the map of Serbia and shows that there are still many locations where nuclear danger exists, I must say that they are not telling the truth. There's no need for citizens to be upset about someone wanting to make a cheap point. You can have your attitude towards the NATO Pact. I personally have an attitude towards the NATO Pact. We all have our feelings for the situation that we've experienced as citizens during the bombing, but not now, ten years after that, to try to make cheap points using false points. Of course there are consequences to the health of the population. The consequences will be felt for a very long time. Let's talk about how we act as states. Here someone said – I hope the Ministry will have the courage to tell the public. Here, we have courage, we announce to the public. You want me to tell you what we're doing today? We're doing permanent monitoring today, as far as the influence of different types of radioactive matter in the air is concerned, which is a regular phenomenon. At this point in nine measuring places in Serbia, which is Palic, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Vinca, Kladovo, Zlatibor, Vranje, Nis and Kosovo Mitrovica, this ministry is taking measurements and informing the public. Right now, if you want to know if there is an increase in radioactive matter in water, air and soil, you can go to the Environment Agency website and look at it. None of these places measure an increase in the concentration of radioactive matter in the air. As for the story of the four locations where the NATO Pact attack was carried out with a radioactive impoverished uranium, it is a matter of spotting locations. It's about locations that, someone said yesterday, were completely rehabilitated, and that material was removed from Vinci. I will immediately answer the question of where to store radioactive material in the future. It has been stored in the same place for the last 60 years, which is Vinca, temporarily, and then permanently transferred to the country where the source of radioactivity was imported, and that is most often Russia. So it is not true that there are yellow-black spots in Serbia, almost throughout Serbia, from which our citizens are radiated. I know that, of course, some MPs will continue to speak falsely. I'll try to get out and deny it every time. So when we talk about environmental laws, laws that concern citizens' health, laws that can leave very serious consequences for our future, we have to talk very clearly. Guys, this isn't just a political debate, I was saying it yesterday. This has to be a very serious, professional debate, because here we talk about concrete things that can always be measured easily. So much for getting started. Thank you for your support. As I understand it, most of you have given your support to these laws. In the meantime, we have considered a large number of amendments that you have submitted as MPs. I would ask you to sit down and talk during today and the next day, because there are many good amendments that we will accept as Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16914	The breach of the Rules of Procedure was advertised by Ms Marina Ragus and Mrs Zlata Djeric. I would like to remind you that the MP has the right to point to a breach as regards the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The minister now spoke. So, if I hurt the Rules of Procedure, in that sense, you can answer it. (He speaks to Ambassador Marina Ragush. You wanted a replica? Do you have a replica of the Minister's disembarkation? You can't. He didn't insult you, because I do. You really have time within which you can say, you have 68 minutes left. Mrs. Djeric, please. You can in your time. (He speaks to the People's Messenger Marina Ragush. (Marina Ragush, from the post: I want to speak as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16915	Dear President, I don't understand why we can't get the right to a replica, but here I am using the right to have some time left for exposure. I feel personally called by Mr. Secretary as someone who disturbs the public. I've got to tell Mr. Secretary that I'm not looking to collect any points by harassing the public. Serbia's public is upset after NATO aggression, that's true. Serbia's public is very monitoring and passing these laws, which I also documented with this letter. Serbia's public on its skin, so to speak metaphorically, feels what is happening in Serbia. You can't, Mr. Minister, first of all as an expert man... You are a doctor and you know that the only truth is that the poored uranium has an effect that it has, that its half-life is four and a half billion years, that once contaminated space is contaminated, and that it can be very difficult to clean up. The attempt will surely be welcomed, we welcome all attempts, but the fact is that the number of malignancies here has increased several times, dozens of times, compared to earlier. You know that as a doctor, too. I, as a man who is well aware of this subject, say responsibly. The number of children suffering from cancerous diseases in Serbia is worrying. A large number of children, Mr. Minister, at the Institute of Oncology with Diseases, with diagnosis - osteosarka (and you know how terrifying this diagnosis is) comes from Cačka, who is indeed ruthlessly bombed during NATO aggression. A large number of children suffered from osteoporosis, unfortunately, and in my Vojvodina. A large number of children suffering from leukemia come from the space of Vojvodina. Sombor is one of the cities that also received a large number of these "reasonable" missiles. I have to tell you, I can document you, I'll even get the names of the young men who were on duty at those facilities in Somboro when they were bombed. Unfortunately, most of them died within two years. So that can't be a coincidence. It's a lot to worry about. It's not public harassment, it happens to us, it happened, and we have to live with it. We need to see how we get rid of these consequences. Mr. Minister, I really believe that your obligation and responsibility is not only this job that you do (I think you are doing it very seriously, thoroughly and responsibly and you are actually accessing it from that humanistic side of the doctor), but also that you should deal with it in the government and the issue of the lawsuit of those who have been Serbia with lasting dangerous consequences, and we will deal with these consequences as we know and can. We don't have any more spare space to live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16916	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The word is Mrs. Marina Ragush. In time, as an authorised representative, you have 14 minutes and all the time available to the SRS parliamentary group, meaning 68 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16917	Thank you. So, Mr. Minister, you've forgotten a little. You are not here to control and qualify the presentations of MPs, but vice versa – we are here to monitor and control the work of your respective ministry. I'd ask you, since I'm not qualified for what you're saying, but I'm trying to reason with some knowledge, to leave a qualification who's telling the truth and who's telling the truth and who's telling the truth. It has been noticed that most often when I speak, you go out and come back when I finish my presentation, like, yesterday. Maybe you weren't there this time when I was talking and showing the map. Mr. Minister, there was an article that came out in 2008. My colleague who has been expelled from this regular session is, as a symbol of something completely vague to him, asking for concrete answers because he is concerned, and he is a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection and has the right to ask for concrete answers from you. He said -- maybe 16 locations look like this, but definitely there will be 16 locations on Serbia's territory to store nuclear waste. Leave it, Mr. Minister, perhaps some days to come, for every authority is expendable. October 5th proved it. It's been nine years. Maybe there'll be another October 5th. Someone will sue the NATO Alliance for what it did, based on concrete data that will benefit this people, not in favour of the current regime. I really intend to bring here to the Serbian public everything that is our political conviction, what is trying to hide from the Serbian public. So much this time, because I've really been irritated by your attitude towards the MPs, I think he's inappropriate and inadmissible. I really don't understand how we didn't have a basis for replication. In the end, it offends the dignity of all of us here. So you're here to answer to us, not answer to you. I fenced myself at the beginning of the discussion that I am not an environmental expert and that it is not clear to me how in Serbia I become an expert on the area, at which the university is studying it, but I said it does not prevent me from expressing my political conviction, to raise certain questions and to raise certain problems. Mr. Minister, whatever I welcome your intention to come out every time, it goes to me specifically, make sure that during the regular session, I will present all the information that is being put aside.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16918	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16919	I must admit that this looks like a decade ago, because on the basis of what we heard in parliament from a colleague from DSS Milice Vojić-Markovic, a colleague from New Serbia Zlata Djeric, from the SRS Marine Ragus, I really think it would be enough to create a brochure that would serve as a very effective information for citizens about the problems that are vital to life. Therefore, Minister Dulic, instead of flaunting women who have done very seriously both your work and the work of one of your environmental advisers team, perhaps you should consider giving these women, based on their presentations, a brochure that could be printed in a larger number of copies and shared to the citizens of Serbia. Among other things, it is a shame to really talk about issues that are vital to the citizens of Serbia, of course not only Serbia, but practically all of us who are residents of this unfortunate planet, by putting on the so-called. A set of laws, and that's basically the third happiness, because these laws are put into practice and withdrawn, so now they're back in the process, but they're in the package. As for, say, this first law prohibiting the use of chemical weapons, the Law implementing the Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons was adopted in October 2005. In order to improve this Convention, a new law was drafted, which was sent to the National Assembly by the government of Vojislav Kostunica at the end of 2007. Why he wasn't on the agenda until today, why he wasn't adopted, is the real question for Boris Tadic, who definitely decides everything. Serbia has fully fulfilled its obligations under this Convention, it regularly submits annual declarations, fulfils all other obligations related to its implementation. As for the second law, on the protection against ionic radiation, what was said yesterday by counterpart Milica Vojic is that, in practice, from the total number of ionising radiation sources used in Serbia, about 80% is used in medicine, about 15% in industry, and 5% is waste on all other activities. We know that, for example, inadequate storage of radioactive waste in Vinca poses a systematic threat to human health and the environment. Also, monitoring non-ionising radiation has not been established, and it is known that four locations in Serbia's territory, not counting Kosovo and Metohija, which are a special story in this regard, are in fact contaminated with poored uranium after NATO bombing in 1999. It is about locations: Bratoselce and Borovac in the municipality of Bujanovac, Reljan (Presevo) and Obljačevica in the municipality of Vranje. They were decontaminated in 2006 and 2007, of course during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which also served as president of New Serbia, the best minister of all time, Minister Velimir Ilic. So activities to solve problems in Serbia, problems with non-ionising radiation, must be conducted at three levels simultaneously: at the level of regulatory measures, institutional measures and economic-financial measures. It is interesting that the draft of this law in the assembly procedure has been three times since 2006, but the president of the Assembly from 2006 to 2007, Mr Dulic, did not mean what the Minister of Environment Dulic meant, and only now is the law before us again to insist on the opposition and not the authorities, which is certainly a point for Mr Dulic's consistency. The bill on non-ionizing radiation – when said like this, it means nothing to an average citizen, but when it is said that the sources of non-ionizing radiation are, in fact, devices that people use daily and often, such as mobile phones, radio and TV apparatus, but also solarium (used by many ladies, but also gentlemen, to make themselves beautiful and black than they are), then things become clear and it becomes clear how important it is to consider whether they are harmful or not harmful to human health. It should again be noted that the bill is already the fourth time in the assembly procedure, Minister Dulic could tell us more about it, and that a public debate was held. In this context, the Ministry shall carry out inspections through environmental inspectors and all data shall be made available to the public. How they will be made available to the public, and if that public doesn't shake too much, we might be able to make a deal, see which way it is for us to give the public information without disturbing it. But we think that Serbian citizens are quite ready to get true information and that, in any case, it is better to give the right information than to force God to protect them from being "stressed" by what they find out. One of the common concerns and dilemmas of Serbian citizens is the construction of mobile phone base stations, some of which are built very close to housing. Citizens, of course, care about how radiation these towers actually affect their health. The proposal for this law of mobile operator base station is treated as sources of special interest, so licenses for setting them will be subject to the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, which is certainly better. With regard to the Chemical Act, the aim is, of course, to establish, maintain and improve a single chemical system on the market for chemicals, as well as to reduce their adverse impact on the environment and human health. It is very important to establish a revised and clear way of classification of packaging and labelling of chemicals in Serbia. Waste management – one of the biggest environmental problems in Serbia is inadequate waste management. In Serbia, there are no integrated data on production, method of disposal and quantity of waste. It is estimated that some 2.2 million tonnes of waste is collected annually, including household waste, around 63%; the average citizen of Serbia annually generates about 290kg of waste; not harmless industrial waste is about 20%, but we have waste from health institutions, slaughterhouse waste, waste from oil wells, in Vojvodina, and construction waste. All of this is mainly delayed to dumps, which officially have 180 in Serbia, which are registered for the disposal of municipal waste, which do not satisfy the technical conditions of sanitary dumps. All of this shows that this area definitely has to be systematically solved. What is particularly important is what happens in the municipality of Kosjerić. The New Serbia municipal board in Koseric has hired a team to analyse the environment and has reached very devastating conclusions. I am very glad that the conclusions of this team on the Ecology of the New Serbia Municipal Committee in Koseric can be passed on to Minister Dulic. Namely, 17. 12. In 2008, Minister Dulic signed with representatives of cementers in Beocin, Popovac and Koseric the Memorandum on the implementation of a project to explore the possibility of using individual waste streams as alternative fuel and raw materials in the cement industry. Minister Dulic's intention was to burn 10,000 tonnes of waste tires in these cements, as well as municipal, medical and slaughterhouse waste under the good action "Let's Clean Serbia". Given that the interest of cementare is economical because the burning of tyres achieves savings in energy, it is agreed that following the burning of tires scattered across Serbia, the start of imports and burning of tyres from European countries, in which strict environmental laws do not allow it. Let's see what the economic team of New Serbia experts says, whether burning waste tires and other waste is really dangerous or not. The whole burning process takes place in the so-called. Rotation furnaces. Using waste tyres as alternative fuel, cementers generate a huge savings and, of course, reduce production costs, but what's unfortunate is that when combustion as a side product releases a whole series of toxins, such as compounds of mercury, lead, chromium, cadmium, but above all dioxins. So none of the cementers that burn the tires solved three basic problems. The first is the formation of dioxins in this process. Scientists believe that the dioxins of the most toxic matter are made by humans. They are highly carcinogenic, easily dissolved in fats, so they have a feature of accumulation and accumulation in fat tissue, so they act like hormones and take over regulatory mechanisms in the body, resulting in a series of disorders, especially liver disease, nervous system function and immune system. They are also teratogenic, which means that they damage the fetus, cause severe malformations of newborns, damage to the reproductive system, as well as damage to the gene. Another problem is the creation of nitrogen oxides that, as they reach the atmosphere, in contact with water create nitrogenic acid that returns to the earth in the form of known so-called "so-called" acids. acid rain. The third problem is that cementers produce large quantities of heavy metals, which are very dangerous to health and cannot in any way be destroyed or eliminated. To shorten this conclusion, what's clear is that there are no filters... (President: Mrs. Jankovic, time is up, bring an end. ) The question of the team for the Ecology of the New Serbia Municipal Committee in Koseric, Mr Dulic, is: would the realisation of this plan endanger the health of people in Koserić, which would naturally have disastrous consequences for the entire municipality, since Koseric would be forever marked as a black spot of Serbia and Europe, and in a 25km radius of nothing produced could be sold to EU member states, which are the most common buyers of our raspberries, blackberries and other strawberry fruit? Of course, it's not just raspberries, because our areas on the market couldn't go either milk or hero, lambs, trout, brandy, apples, vegetables, or any other agricultural product, because they would be considered highly toxic. I believe in your good intentions and believe you will respond to the environmental team of New Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16920	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I understand it, we have been seeking this kind of debate. This is one right parliamentary debate in which you, as MPs, raise and ask questions, and then the representatives of the government give answers. As for preserving the dignity of the Assembly, believe me, Mrs. Ragush, I have fought more to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. When I was a National MP, I tried to put in place some rules that, thank God, are still in force today; I tried and managed to organise the possibility that the Government would always be present in parliament and that MPs would have the opportunity to ask very serious questions, to which the Government would give answers, and to try to make MPs in the process of work and to be respected. You don't have to teach me how to talk to MPs from the minister's position. It's my duty and my job, for the sake of your public statement and for the sake of responsibility to the publicly spoken word, to go out and say when sometimes I disagree with you and when I have different data. I just did it. So there are no 25 or 30 nuclear waste sites in Serbia, nor will there ever be. As for the map you're spreading, you can campaign on it, you can pull out newspaper articles where some people might have talked about it before, I repeat again, nuclear waste is being placed where it's been staying for decades, and that's Vinci. There's a temporary accommodation. The permanent installation of nuclear waste is where the source of radiation came from, and that's Russia. Of course, with a lot of problems, it's solved, but it's solved. As for Koseric, and thank you for asking that question, I am very glad that the environmental team of the NS Municipal Committee in Koserić asked the question. Since I have heard that there have been several discussions about what is happening in Koserić, I owe you as MPs an answer. In all countries of the world, let's limit ourselves to the continent to which we belong, in all EU countries one way of storage and housing, the permanent removal of waste is also insineration, i.e. co-insineration in the plants for which there are conditions for it. These are very strictly specific conditions. They are subject to extremely strict environmental impact assessments, and they are done. Yesterday I told you that one of the goals, when we talk about removing waste, is to create legal mechanisms and all the other necessary mechanisms, which involve involving the profession in order to solve the problem of waste as well. Waste is used everywhere in Western Europe for energy purposes, but, of course, in case it does not pollute the environment. In the first step, by signing a protocol with drives that are at this moment the only one possessing technology, which is cementers, we started opening the door to this process. We asked them for very strict conditions, first of all, to study the environmental impact assessment, so that they could enter the process of burning different types of waste. I have to say we won't let it, this law says it well, you can read exactly what member it says, that the import of waste for burning. It will be prohibited by law and I can guarantee it now. It will be allowed to, eventually, some types of waste not treated as dangerous imports for further processing and extraction of secondary matter, and it is one of the amendments of the MPs that I will likely accept during the debate. What will be possible is that it will be very carefully discussed by the ministry experts, and I call on NS experts from Koseric to take part in these discussions, because this will, of course, be subject to public debate; we will come up with some necessary technological requirements to start with. This is the way I want to deny a lie. The truth is that today in Koserić, anything that pollutes the environment is burned in cement, which has not been burned in the last few decades. For decades, in the cement shop in Koserić, I am now speaking to an MP from my party, using a kind of fuel that is still being used today. Cementar in Koserić did not even submit to the Ministry of Environment an environmental impact assessment request, so it is not true that at this point in cementery in Koserić, anything produces dioxins, furans and matter that you listed here. That's not true. Now let's be responsible for the citizens we represent and tell the truth. Don't disturb the public. If the cementar submits a request and the procedure is very long, there will be several public hearing procedures in which everyone will be able to make sure that the cementar has met all necessary technological conditions. Today in Europe, technological conditions are such and new technologies are such that they prevent dangerous substances from occurring in those quantities in which they are illicit and harmful to human health. To confirm this, this year we will set up a station for automatic monitoring, as are set up in other locations where cementers work today, and Serbian citizens will be able to monitor the concentration of different substances on the Internet of the Environment Protection Agency at a constant time, not to disturb the public. So that's something we do permanently. Please, when we talk about specific cases, you might first ask us for official information before one committee, I will not enter your expertise, bring some information, which I claim is not correct. If they acted preventively, I thank them for that and I call them, tell them our greetings, to participate in a public debate the moment the cementist decides to enter the project of using these alternative types of fuel. Those are the answers to the questions I've been asked. I won't answer again, except in the end. If you have any specific questions, I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16922	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, you have the opportunity to address the MPs, Mrs. Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16923	I just want you to tell me, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, how much time I have left of those 20 minutes that I'm entitled to and who I am... (President: 11 more minutes within your time. This is my time, right? Now can I follow? Thank you. Mr. Minister, I must say that you have forgotten each other again. My intention was not to teach you lessons, but to remind you that Parliament, according to the Constitution, has a supervisory function. You've come to talk to me and qualify what I'm saying here as a lie. You have no right to do that, and you know it very well. And you're still saying that that's how I get some cheap political points. I'm really sorry, but this is a picture of today's parliament in Serbia, I can't pick up the applause of my parliamentary group because they've all been thrown out, except for me. You just got a round of applause for your presentation and I'm glad, really. In the end, it shows your party's relationship to you. From you, Mr. Minister, I expect certain arguments, certain data, to dissuad me and those citizens I represent and the Serbian public that our concerns have no place, but you overstep, and thereby insult my dignity, you exceed the limits of a good education. I get the impression that I'm causing a certain allergic reaction with you. At least that's how you behave. What I intend to do, and I will do it in action today and these days, I have plenty of time, unfortunately, my colleagues are not able to do it, but on behalf of all of them, I will do it, is that here in front of the Serbian public, who is sufficiently educated and educated and is not prone to harassment in the way you think, Mr. Minister, has survived so many sanctions, wars, aggression of the civilized world, survival and this public debate... The Serbian Radical Party believes that all issues must be notified to the Serbian public. I remind you of the 74th member of the Constitution of Serbia – that as far as the environment is concerned, everyone has the right to be informed. And, just on the basis of this member of Serbia's highest legislative act, we are today having a public debate on all environmental issues. The Serbian Radical Party thanks you for this set of laws, because it will finally be able to speak for itself, in front of its political beliefs, in front of the Serbian public, who will appreciate who is wrong, who is right, about all those issues that we think have been put in an ad act since 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16924	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16925	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam President, I would like to protest in some way your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the right to the replica of the People's Parliament. It is impossible for the MP not to have the right to reply or to answer to the minister who is in the congregation on that day, but rather to have that replica come down to a replica between the MPs. It is inadmissible to believe that when we report to the replica, we are wasting our MPs' time. What about when we spend the time of the parliamentary group and the minister says something, what should be the answer? Then how are we going to waste our time? Your interpretation is wrong and restrictive. On the agenda, probably even today within the third point, we have 13 laws in the field of ecology. Of those 13 laws, seven or even nine laws in its name have the words "protection laws". We have a law on protection against ionic radiation, air protection, nature protection, etc. I think that this set of laws lacks a few proposals and I think that's the future task of the National Assembly, because there's obviously no one else to do such laws. I propose that the National Assembly form a commission or working group that will set up a set of laws on the protection of Serbian citizens from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have heard well, therefore, the protection of citizens from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and ministers, and another law would be to protect Serbian citizens from the President of the Republic. Therefore, someone must protect the citizens of Serbia from the incompetent, irresponsible and delusions of the government's proclivities. There were so many unreal promises, I don't want to use any other word, but it was, in any case, a hoax. One of the promises, I'll just list a few -- you promised to join the EU by 2012, gaining candidate status by 2009. The result is that a few days ago, Mrs Doris Pack, who in the European Parliament was a rapporteur for the Western Balkans, responded – there is no room for either Serbia or other Western Balkan countries, possibly more room for Croatia alone. What were the excuses, I don't know, but that's the answer. Then, you promised, it was a phenomenal promise from Minister Krkobibić, so there should be a member in this law – protection of pensioners from Jovan Krkobbić... Please, this government is made, among other things, on promises that all pensioners in Serbia will receive a pension of at least 70% of the average personal income. The result was that at the end of last year, the assembly passed a law that also freezes and regular increases that were scheduled in April and October. So, the result is that now the average pension is probably less than 50% of the personal income, and in 2009, there is no indication that this will increase. Then, a promise of 200,000 new jobs. Score: 10,000 jobs are less, old jobs today. That promise has turned into a famous sentence and oath by our President Boris Tadic that we will defend existing jobs. So, from the promise of 200,000 new jobs, we've come to the point of talking about defending existing jobs. Then there is no more defence, because we are now talking about rationalization and reduction, that is, that there is a great surplus in certain organisations and institutions, and that these people should be fired, so we will also save. Then, a promise -- the defence of Kosovo and Metohija, a famous slogan: both Europe and Kosovo. The result is that the government of the Republic of Serbia actively participates in implementing the Martti Ahtisaari plan. The deployment of Eulex, the permit (it is even hidden from the public), Serbia's active participation in the deployment of Eulex is nothing more than assistance in building the so-called "Euleks". independent Kosovo countries. This is about protecting citizens, and in the afternoon, I will talk about how the institutions of the Serbian state really should be protected, and other branches of government should be protected. We are as parliament, therefore, the legislative authority, very often humiliated by the executive authority; not to mention how often the judicial authorities or the judicial authority are the target of the attack. I remind you only of the recent recommendation of the executive authority to suspend the proceedings under labour law, because that, my God, will destabilise the organizations that in these court proceedings will have to pay compensation to the workers who win these disputes. I'll also say a few words about protecting against ionising radiation and nuclear security, so I'm going back to the points that are within this debate, and about protecting against non-ionizing radiation. So, out of the total number of ionising radiation sources used in Serbia, 80% of medicine waste, 15% of industrial waste, and 5% are sources used in other areas. A colleague here said that the monitoring of non-ionizing radiation, maltene, has not existed so far, so we hope that this law will regulate that area. Protection, i.e. monitoring, monitoring of ionising radiation is made possible by the 1996 law, and there is a certain network. What concerns, however, is the inadequate storage of radioactive waste in Vinci. The minister explained it several times and said it was a temporary storage that has been going on for 60 years. However, if you had the chance, I guess because of all these laws that are now on the agenda, there is much talk in the daily newspaper about the problems that Vinca is currently facing, so I hope that there will be more time in this debate, so the minister will explain a little more to us what the problems are, which are the loans imposed on the Institute in Vinci, who will repay these loans, why the loan is being taken. And Vinci opens up a lot of questions. In this area, the legislation is inadequate for now, there is no network to monitor radioactivity, then, there is no database on sources of ionising and non-ionising radiation. We who have been seriously preparing for this debate have not been able to get as much data in Serbia as there are sources of ionic radiation at all, but that is why we have come up with data, let's say, that there are still a lot of older types of X-ray machines in our medical institutions, which are dangerous for both those who work and for patients. So, the sooner we get rid of it, the sooner we get rid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16926	Mrs. Banovic, I am sorry to have caused dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with you, but I would have to remind you of a member of our 101st Rules of Procedure, who says: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. "Of course, all present in the hall are subject to the Rules of Procedure, but I have indeed found that Mr. Minister did not have offensive expressions, nor did he address any MP in a way that he degraded him. The final position of this member says the decision on the replica is made by the president of the National Assembly. So that was the reason why I thought there was no room for replication. I can hurt the Rules of Procedure, if you want to harm the Rules of Procedure to advertise, if I hurt you, here you go. The minister, first of all, can't make a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and secondly, there was no reason to give the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16927	You obviously didn't get me. We in this room seem to be just talking about insults and offensive answers. I would never expect a minister to insult me, nor would I expect MPs to. The right to answer the answer we heard from Mr. Dulic, that's all. He didn't insult anyone, of course, but we're not happy with his answer. How else can we respond to his reply if we don't answer the line?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16928	In that case, in the day for parliamentary questions you ask a question, but that is not the basis for replication. I just wanted to say why I didn't make the replica possible. There's a word Mr. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in order to see what kind of ecological state the Republic of Serbia is only required from Belgrade, Sudotica, Novi Sad to drive, for example, to the municipality in which I live, which is Vrnjaka Banja. Along the highway is a space that, hand to heart, and maintains, at least that fenced part. From Batocina along the road there are piles of garbage of various categories, but most packaging. The area along the Ibar highway is already a story for itself. When you come to Vrnjaka Banja, the queen of Serbian continental tourism, a new shock: 60 cubic metres of various municipal waste is deposited daily, without any previous treatment or selection, into depression next to the West Morava trough created by the exploitation of gravel, sand and tendon. Waste fecal sewers are also poured out into West Morava, from which, just five kilometers downriver, our neighbours, the locals of Triestenik, drink water. Vrnjaka Banja is not the only municipality with such ecological and municipal problems. Serbia will need four billion euros to adapt to EU environmental rules, as well as projects needed on the road, and another 10 billion euros to address wastewater problems. Does Serbia have such funds during the global economic crisis? We have become, unfortunately, the black ecological stain of Europe and therefore it is unclear what you have been waiting for so far with the proposal of this set of laws. We've all met up with packaging waste, or packaging, which, when it ceases to have its own useful value, becomes a surplus with which we don't know what to do but dump it in the trash. The quantities of packaging waste from everyday consumer goods used in households are large and thus create a serious problem of disposal, i.e. depositing and packaging. Most of Serbia's legal dumps do not meet even the most basic conditions for environmental protection, and they occupy growing natural areas. It's about illegal, or wild dumps that I'm not even talking about. The opening of new dumps, which will meet new environmental and sanitary conditions, is one of the necessary solutions, however, for their realisation of local self-government do not have enough money. And that's not a good end solution to the waste, because it's just gonna pile up, and it's not going to be quantified. In order to solve this problem, it is necessary, on the one hand, that the deposit system, which this law really provides, is applied to the packaging waste which has been covered by Serbia, which has already been used and dumped, and not only to packaging that is being placed on the market on the day of application of this law, because only by financial motivation can we clean up Serbia. I remind you that in this way more than a billion cans, glass bottles and plastic bottles have been collected in Croatia for a year and thus over 2,000 jobs have been opened. On the other hand, it is necessary to introduce the principle of primary waste selection by citizens themselves, and it must not be on a voluntary basis and even less on a criminal basis. Citizens who wish to carry out primary waste selection should be subject to a reduction of accounts for public services performed and supplied with sufficient quantities of courts for disposal and separation, i.e. waste sorting. The government of the Republic of Serbia will have to re-fund the funds from the republican budget to municipal public enterprises, as they have been choked in large claims and debts anyway. The third, and most importantly, solution in reducing huge waste, especially packaging, is in technological progress and the development of environmental consciousness, changing our habits, and adopting new ones. As the bill remains unspoken in many parts, the SNS, that is, the Prost-Serbian Parliament Club - Tomislav Nikolic will try to improve it for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16930	Mr. Jovan Nesovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16931	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have a set of laws in the field of ecology. The adoption of this set of laws creates systemic solutions for Serbia's state to systematically regulate its environment, thus protecting human health, both now and in the future. These laws meet the standards of the EU accession process and that is why the G17 Group of MPs will support all these laws that are on the agenda. I just want to talk about one of these laws, and that's the waste management law. To see this law, it seems to me, in the beginning, to look at what the situation is today in Serbia. In the state of Serbia, according to the last census, we have about 7.5 million inhabitants. On average, each citizen creates about 0.8kg of waste. It's a little less than citizens in the EU and other Eastern European countries create. What is also important today in Serbia is that municipal waste is delayed and collected at between 60% and 70%. It is most often in the area of cities, where population density is higher, and it is almost missing in the rural area. Another thing that is very important and very dangerous in Serbia right now is that around 250,000 - 400,000 tonnes of industrial hazardous waste are generated in Serbia, and it is currently seen as retail, just like municipal waste. A similar situation with medical waste, which also has about 70,000 tonnes per year in the whole Serbian state. So, at this point in Serbia, there is no organised waste management system, from its formation, collection, transport, storage, treatment, to the final disposal of dumps. The inadequate treatment of waste is one of the biggest environmental problems the state of Serbia is facing today. One thing is also important: today there are 180 dumps in Serbia. Most of them represent, in fact, dumps. How many wild dumps and dumps there are, we really can't say that. Just walk past and look by the roads in Serbia, along rivers, streams. It's a legacy that needs to be changed in Serbia, starting with every single person, to a country in general. What's also important is that the disposal of garbage at the dumps has some problems that we also have to solve. The existing dumps that have been closed in most cases have not been recultivated. Except for a few newly built dumps, most dumps do not respect certain standards that should be delayed. Most of the dumps have no urban, construction and use permits and most of them are prior to closure, and local self-governments are looking to extend their working life as long as possible, just so they don't look for new locations. For most dumps no rescue projects have been done, although their closure is already near. Waste disposal is done most frequently without prior treatment and in Serbia, recycling is currently a low-level collection of secondary raw materials. As for the collection and transport of waste itself, the collection of waste is done by public utility companies, which are directly in the jurisdiction of local self-government. They usually drive the waste to dumps without respecting the criteria and criteria relating to the protection of the environment. As for the way in which the municipal waste itself is collected, you have large variations in the daily mass, the volume of municipal waste, the irregular way of using containers and the inadequate or insufficient availability of containers that are distributed in our cities. What's also important in the waste transport process is the lack of a vehicle due to a situation where local self-government and public utility companies deal with these jobs; the insufficient frequency of the vehicle that takes this trash, so you have a mass of garbage that is collected in cities where it is intended; the unsettled collection of hazardous waste coming from health institutions, from industrial plants. As for treatment, at this point the treatment of municipal waste almost does not exist in the state of Serbia, except for a few sanitary dumps in which there is indeed a treatment of municipal waste that is defined by norms that define the area. Primary recycling, although normably passed in Serbia, is almost not applicable. We don't have a classification of waste, or we don't try to get secondary raw materials that are related to glass, paper and other things, packaging, use, but all of this is collected in one place and delayed at the dumps. When it comes to composting, there are also no major actions important in the area. What is important and what is the main objective of this law is to reduce waste generation, especially the development of clean technologies and more efficient use of natural resources, reuse and recycling of waste, the extraction of secondary raw materials from waste and the use of waste as energy, as well as proper disposal of waste, i.e. sustainable management of natural values, protection and improvement of the environment throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, this law should be another step towards approaching national legislation in this area of European Union legislation. This law has 15 chapters and in my speech I want to talk about three chapters, which are: waste management planning, liability and waste management obligations and waste management. As regards waste management planning, the law provides for the adoption of a waste management strategy, individual national plans, regional and local waste management plans, a waste management plan in facilities for which an integrated authorisation and a waste management plant work plan is issued. As regards the national waste management strategy, the national strategy has been adopted. It is passed for ten years, and according to the law, it is an obligation to review it every five years, that is to agree with the current problem. The National Plans are being adopted by the Resistant Ministry. Articles 11 to 14 of this law have been defined to provide regional municipal waste management plans with two or more local self-governments. These regional municipal waste management plans must be in agreement with the national waste management plan. Also, these regional plans are being adopted for a time period of ten years, and a review of these plans is being carried out every five years. Local self-governments are making plans for local communities and they are being adopted for a period of ten years, with a five-year review. It is important that these planning documents be adopted, both at government level and at local self-government level, because if you don't have a good plan and if you have the wrong plan, you can invest a lot of funds in one area, but the effects will not be visible. The state of Serbia is not so rich at this time and all the funds, every penny that is invested in this area and in protecting the environment must be defined exactly in which direction it is going, because we do not have the money to throw away. The following chapter, which is the responsibilities and obligations of waste management, defines the responsibilities and obligations of manufacturers of products, manufacturers and waste owners, waste carriers, operators working on treatment facilities and depositors. The manufacturer, under this law, will have to use rational material and energy and encourage reuse and recycling of products and packaging at the end of the product life cycle. This is important because it wants to encourage the development of the recycling process in Serbia, i.e. the use of secondary raw materials. The second thing that has been defined by law and which is important refers especially to hazardous waste. Those who produce a product that is packed in hazardous waste are obliged to collect it after use or to give authority to someone else who will do so. I think this is an important thing and I hope that after a few years of applying this law, exactly what happens to dangerous waste in Serbia and where it goes. The manufacturer and the owner of the waste – it is defined that those producing more than 100 tonnes of harmless waste or more than 200 kilograms of hazardous waste must draw up a plan for the management of that waste, obtain a report on the examination of that waste and apply the prescribed waste measures that are collected, stored and processed. As far as the carrier is concerned, they must have transport permits and must comply with all the rules relating to the area. As regards the operator at treatment facilities and the depositary operator, it is important that it is introduced that after the closure of the dump 30 years it must be monitored, i.e. the impact of that deposit on environmental disorders. It's also a newspaper. I think it's important that there must be a highly educated, professional person who will be responsible for the work being done at the dump. This is one thing that the government has well proposed, i.e. the resolution ministry, because professional people have to seriously start dealing with issues that are related to the disposal and disposal of waste, which are issues related to environmental protection. As regards the organisation of waste management, storage, treatment, or disposal of waste may be carried out by a company, company or other legal person established to carry out the work of storage, treatment or disposal, in accordance with the law. The law provides that permits and contracts for the performance of local importance are to be concluded with the local self-government unit. The construction and operation of a waste management facility must comply with the provisions of this Act and the Law on Planning and Construction of Objects. The law allows, which is very important, that two or more local self-governments can establish a common location for the construction of a waste management facility on their territory, under the conditions laid down by this law. Simply, by respecting the principles of the amount of waste created, respecting the principles of savings and energy, money and all that is important for waste management, it is possible for local self-governments to save and make these joint facilities of regional importance. The organisation of waste management – the law defines those things that are related to the collection, transport, storage, treatment of waste and disposal of waste to dumps. I just want to say a few things about the disposal of the waste dump. The waste to the dumps will have to be disposed of in a controlled manner. It will have to be defined that there are dumps for dangerous, harmless and inert waste. It's a newspaper, because so far we've had it all in one place. What is important is the ban on the disposal of hazardous waste at the same location as other waste types. I would ask Mr. Minister, I come from the city of Kralje, where Ibar arrived these days, who simply picks up all the junk that some local self-government irresponsible warehouse just off the coast of the Ibar River... Since these local self-governments, not wanting to deal with this problem, do it on purpose, then Ibar, when he gets there, picks up all the garbage and transports it past the city of Kings to West Morava and continues towards the Great Morava. There must be a question of responsibility here. Someone has to answer for this, because it can't happen that one city with 130,000 inhabitants every year in the spring is thinking about whether it's going to be covered with trash by local self-government and individuals. I hope that by applying this law in the city of King next year in March or April of the month, when Ibar comes, we won't have these problems. As for the management of municipal waste, it is defined not to mix dangerously with harmless waste. If there is accidental interference, a classification will have to be carried out, if economically justified. If it's not economically justified, then it's all considered dangerous waste. On the other hand, it is a good thing that kabass waste will be banned from going with municipal waste, i.e. to be inserted into containers. It's just that, you know, when you throw in the kabass waste, there's no room for municipal waste. It will also define selective waste collection for recycling, which I think is a good thing in the future. In the end, seeing all the things I've put forward, I think this law is becoming a powerful means of starting a serious development of recycling in Serbia. I think this is particularly important in this time of crisis, when in all other fields production is reduced, there is a problem with the layoff of workers. I am fully convinced that in the next period, if the ministries, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Government, local self-government, are truly applying this law in this area, production, or the collection of secondary raw materials, people's employment will be more pronounced, and that means – richer individuals in Serbia, richer Serbia in general, and environmental protection at a higher level. For this reason G17 plus in the voting day will also support this law and a package of environmental laws, and I call on all parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16932	Thank you, Mr. Nesovic. The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16933	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, given the application of the new Rules of Procedure, there is not enough time, at least for our parliamentary group, to say everything about these united points of the agenda. Therefore, my discussion will be limited to three laws, namely the draft law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, the Proposal for a Law on Chemicals and the Proposal for a Law on Biocidal Products. You'll let me, before that, just set up some things. Mr. Minister, I have not heard, at least until now, that any of the MPs said these laws were unnecessary, but the essence of our objections towards you as minister, and to the previous president of this Serbian assembly, was to the dynamics of putting certain laws in the legal procedure. That's a fact. You just can't deny it. It's just like that. There were probably more important things in that term when you were president of the assembly, it was more important that you do other things. That's what I was talking about yesterday, and I hope you listened to me very carefully, and in part, Donka Banovic also told you about these things. So you were more concerned with the pre-election promises and lies that were then made, the delusions of citizens, than putting on the agenda such important and capital laws. So all these laws, at least these three laws, certainly have their own useful value and are very important because they need to regulate areas related to the destruction and storage of chemical weapons, dangerous substances. The Biocidal Code introduces order into chemical products and in general chemicals, or regulates that matter. But when you speak to the MPs, you use a language that is simply unusual. It's unusual in that sense that he's trying to blur things out. I'll remind you what these things are. In the last term... However, you were not a minister, but we addressed you with a few issues related to this kind of problem, which is – unintentional use of funds from the budget. In the past term, the environment minister was Sasa Dragin, who is now the minister of agriculture. The information we received was that the ministry spent an incomplete 11m euros on the destruction of ambrosia, the destruction of ticks and mosquitoes. The basic question that we asked them to you, Mr Dragin, was – whose authority is this? The law here is quite clear: when we talk about ambrosia, it is the Ministry of Agriculture, and when we talk about ticks and mosquitoes, the Ministry of Health is responsible because they are the cause of the disease. The second question was – in which way these funds were provided; and the third question – in which these jobs were assigned to individual economic operators. The answers we received from the current Minister of Agriculture and you as the current Minister for Environmental Protection were next. You didn't answer whose jurisdiction it was. In no word did you speak, nor did you point, nor did you answer the question. When we asked why this was done, because we think it's a random waste of money from the budget, Mr. Sasha Dragin answered us, I'm going to have to quote it, because I have a photocopy of that letter. Among other things, he called for a draft law on nature protection. Please, on the draft law on nature protection. Is 11m euros spent on the basis of the draft laws on nature protection and who gives the minister the right to use funds from the budget in such a way? Furthermore in this response, it is so frantic, and the media should deal with this kind of problem, Minister Sasa Dragin says "the Ministry of Environment Protection carried out in the territory of the Republic of Serbia control of the numbers of mosquitoes, ticks and ambrosia". At the beginning of 2008? Let's see what months these are. It's January, February. How can you count those mosquitoes, ticks, and ambrosia by snow and ice? Is that ambrosia booming in January? Do those mosquitoes lie down in January, February? That's a completely unsuspecting answer. All of this points to one great irresponsibility, haughtiness. Asking how these funds were deployed, if there was any public advertising, you answered us the following way, Mr. Dulic. You said that these funds, i.e. that jobs are shared by these organisations in the guessing process, without prior publication. So it's a sum of 11m euros. These aren't small-task jobs. Do you know what 11 million in the Republic of Serbia's budget means? This is terrible. This is why someone should be held accountable. After this premonition of things, you find and get the strength to hold the letter to the MPs, and we're telling you the facts, documented. When a secretary of state is asked to deliver documents signed by the then environment minister, the chief of the state inspection says he must not give the documents. Why? Is that something secret? Is he hiding something? If he's hiding from MPs, if he's hiding from the National Assembly, how many things are he hiding from Serbian citizens? It's a pairing, it's a hand-tocking in the pocket and such an impoverished people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16934	I thank Mr Dimitrievich. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16935	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the reasons and necessity of the adoption of laws on packaging and packaging waste, and I will also refer to the waste management law. Serbia has been one of the most polluted European countries so far. First of all, I mean classic waste, including a special place for packaging waste. I say so far, because I am convinced that by passing these laws, I mean 13 environmental laws, as we call them, and three conventions, will create conditions for it to be no longer so. Unfortunately, plastic bottles have been swimming along rivers so far, plastic bags are in the treetops, cars, car tyres and old techniques have been dumped on the banks of the river. There are garbage dumps along the fertile ornaments, and when the wind blows, we bear witness that they are also found in the fields. That's the kind of Serbia we've had so far. The law on packaging and packaging waste, along with the law on waste management, should stand in the way. Serbia should, I would say, be clean, and in rivers to swim fish, trees to nest birds and to disappear wild dumps forever. In addition to the fact that we all want to live in a clean environment, it's important for the following reasons. First, Serbia has great hope and prospects for its village, or farmers, to produce healthy food. Was that possible so far? I'd say no, and mostly no. As long as we don't create legal conditions, which we do now, and until we apply this whole regulation, there are no conditions for that. Why? There is no possibility of obtaining health-food certificates either under EU regulations or by Serbia's rules in areas where dumps are located, where the issue of waste management has not been resolved. It's not a simple job. Let us take an example of Slovenia, which, in our opinion, is a relatively clean country. Slovenia has received a deadline from the EU to address a number of environmental issues by 2015. To be clear, there are no more problems we face there, but EU environmental rules are very strict. We're with these laws at the beginning. Courageous determination of the Ministry and actions taken by the Ministry. It is clear that the support of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the Ministry and these projects and legislative activity will also be very important. Secondly, how can we deal with tourism and rural tourism, and thus with the development of the village, which, you will agree, has great potential and can employ a new workforce if we do not solve the issue of waste and waste? The third great possibility created by these laws is employment in the area of recycling. Recyclation triggers the entire chain of employment of thousands of people in almost all places across Serbia. This has shown the experience of countries that have applied, or implemented, legislation in the field of ecology. These are organized waste collection systems, takeovers, transportation, primary and, ultimately, final waste treatment. Not to mention the fact that we imported waste for processing in Serbia. It's also going to be saving for local self-government, because it's going to cut the part, to call it unscheduled waste. So, not only are we going to clean up Serbia, we're going to hire some unemployed people. The meaning of packaging law and packaging waste is reflected, above all, in the preservation of natural resources, the protection of the environment and human health, the development of modern packaging production technologies and, ultimately, the recycling system or reuse of packaging. Finally, the most important principle of this law is – the polluter pays. It is very important that by adopting laws on packaging and packaging waste, all packaging will have to meet strict standards, in a law called - the Serbian standard for packaging. These conditions, on the one hand, protect citizens' health, and on the other hand create conditions that packaging can be recycled. The packaging and packaging waste management system is also clearly prescribed to provide collection and recycling. This cycle sets out the obligations of producers, importers and traders. In the end, I will be very pleased if the Ministry accepts my two amendments concerning the deposit and bail system and which give the government the opportunity to prescribe a price for the compulsory purchase of single packaging and return packaging. The next topic is about ecology, and there could also be a story about the municipal police, which would certainly facilitate the application of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16936	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, when you were visiting a few days ago in the morning program you were just talking about these laws, you were talking about a huge number of wild dumps in Serbia and the huge resources needed to clear Serbia. In doing so, you probably thought of this PET packaging, and it seems to me that you mentioned a billion-euro sum or figure. In Serbia, of course, there is much more to be done. I believe that when these two sets of laws are adopted and implemented, we will draw closer to even the neighbouring countries, if not the EU countries. I believe that these laws are good, however, I may not have talked enough in the last discussion about that we have had almost every intervention in every law when it comes to the time for these laws to begin to apply. For example, when it comes to packaging law and packaging waste, 18 months are foreseen, and we, for example, asked in our amendments to reduce it to 12 months. We know that many sublegal acts should be passed, but if the European Union has given 12 months to its industry to adapt to this law, or if the Croats have given only four months, we believe that 12 months is enough, regardless of what it means the ministry will have to work a lot, but 18 months is too long. If we have a situation where from Belgrade to southern Serbia along our roads there are thousands of different plastic dumps, PET packaging, if on our rivers where the queen is losing power you see thousands of square meters covered with plastic or, according to the director of one of these hydropower plants, in the spring of each year as many as 6,000 cubic metres of plastics must move away so the power plant can work, so we don't have much time, we're late for our neighbours. Our industry needs to adapt. I believe that the Ministry should also use all its potentials and in the shortest time ensure that sublegal acts are passed, but also to start applying these laws. We believe that this principle, which applies in Europe, "the polluter pays", should be implemented in Serbia, because in Serbia so far, it has been paid by a citizen; when it comes to packaging waste and any other, municipal organisations, local self-government are burdened. We feel that those who profit from it should also be burdened. We know that there are pressures from some large manufacturers using PET packaging, it doesn't matter if it's Coca-Cola, Knjiz Milos or anyone else. This was about the deposit system. There are several systems in Europe, however, the deposit system has proved to be a good system. It is a system that ensures that, as with feedback, glass or other packaging, citizens are interested in collecting that packaging, if they know that they will receive certain funds for it. There is another: if someone is already throwing, he bought a certain packaging, or used it, to pour “coca - car, ” whether it is acidic water, it doesn’t matter, and he threw it away, there will be another citizen who will turn over and who has an interest in collecting that packaging. When there was a big event in Germany this summer, the Germans usually consume a lot of beer, there were many people who threw out those beer glasses, but every morning everything was clean because there was a large number of those who collected it, because the bail per unit, or one piece, was very high. It's something the Ministry should take into account, that simply through this deposit system, through some bail they'll set for PET packaging, it interests citizens to collect it, both those who use it in the household and those who would collect it when they find it anywhere. I mentioned earlier that it could have been done in Croatia. I know that there has been a municipality in Serbia for several years on environmental protection in Europe. It's the City of Kickinda. It is the only municipality I know that has been thinking about introducing environmental police officers, at the time Mr. Blazic was the president of the municipality. By going through that community and through all its villages, I've never seen a wild dump. We want such a Serbia, we want a Serbia that is beautiful, as they say, given by God and nature, and it's just us who made it the way it is today. As far as we're concerned, we support these laws, but we think there's still a little amount to be taken into account when it comes to the law on ionising radiation. I find it unacceptable that something should be implemented in Serbia in ten years; all these deadlines should be shortened, perhaps not as we have suggested, but not too late for European countries. We know there are some dirty technologies in Serbia. We're not in favour of shutting down jobs, but for that, as you said, we're going to introduce some advanced technologies that are just being introduced in developed countries to take a step further. There's talk of those garbage mills. They are closing in Europe; some new waste mineralisation procedures are now under way. We can't let them throw in what they're closing in on us, or let our organizations, our people do it here in Serbia. It should be insisted that what is best in Europe, when it comes to ecology, be introduced immediately to Serbia. And on this point, especially if you adopt any of our amendments, you will have our support for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16938	Thank you, Mr. Delic. I give my word to the MP, Dr. Gabor Lodi.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16939	Madam President, Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister and Associates Minister, Honored Ladies and Gentlemen People's MPs, a principle debate on the set of environmental laws began yesterday. We've heard a lot of things about having a legal, primarily constitutional, basis for passing these laws. We've heard the reasons for passing these laws. I could tell you, as a radiologist, I kind of tied myself up, first of all, to this bill on the protection of ionic radiation and nuclear safety. In fact, what was interesting yesterday, we talked about the reasons -- first of all, to harmonize our laws with EU laws, and we put in one concept, a regulatory body called the agency, which is something new in our country. By the way, as far as this agency is concerned, it is stated here that it independently implements this law, in line with the International Nuclear Energy Agency's recommendations. We've heard several times today that 80% of total ionizing radiation comes from medical experts. It's an X-ray diagnostic, it's a radiological therapy, and it's, first of all, radiological studies. I just said that I was going to say a few good things about the patients themselves and my colleagues and colleagues who work in these rooms where we have ionizing radiation. The Agency's work, as I just said, will certainly improve the working conditions of all our colleagues and protect our patients. The law stipulates that the facilities in which we are going to do various checks and where we have open ionic rays must be adequate and in accordance with the regulations; that persons working in these conditions must be provided with ionic radiation, adequate protection and measuring instruments to diagnose this radiation; workers must have adequate professional equipment; this agency will issue a licence in order for this work to take place. In addition, the agency will determine a responsible person who will be required to oversee the work of the experts themselves who work in these rooms, to care for the conduct of personal dosimetric control and the procurement of safeguards, the conduct of health control over professionally exposed persons and the professional training of staff to carry out the protection measures. Furthermore, I will be free to quote Article 43 of this bill, where it says that radiation and nuclear activities in medicine can be carried out in a regulated manner, provided that the doctor of medical expertise conducts an evaluation of medical justification and approves diagnostic or therapeutic procedure with the implementation of the principles and measures of protection against ionising radiation. Article 45 prohibits systematic x-rays of the population, unless, with the agreement of the agency that I mentioned earlier, it is from a particular ministry that will carry out health care in our country's territory. In the end, I'd like to congratulate your associates, Mr. Minister, who have been doing some draft laws for several years. As a member of the Assembly Committee on Ecology, I would like to wish to the agency and the persons responsible for protecting against ionizing radiation good coordination. I got one look at it, which looks like it might look like a death certificate, and it says here - folds in the dark. These are our X-rays, which are used today, unfortunately, in diagnostics in Serbia. If someone looks closely at it, from Vojvodina to cities and health homes in the far south, we have such appliances, which threaten the health of all our X-ray technicians and our patients.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16940	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16941	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will begin by quoting what philosopher Zenon said, which lived from 335 to 264 B.C. – that the goal of life is to live in harmony with nature. I think that statement also speaks for itself and that it speaks to a significant extent about the importance of what is on the agenda. We will all agree that this set of environmental laws was necessary much earlier on the congregation agenda. I'll remind you that the DSS parliamentary group, along with some other parliamentary groups, submitted the initiative a few months ago. Even the appropriate session was scheduled, however, the government's intervention was withdrawn from the agenda and the session was cancelled. I think the reasons for the adoption of the environmental laws package go beyond what the ruling majority has cited as the basic motivation for their adoption, and that is the issue of European integration. I think that, in fact, the main gain for both the state and the citizens of the tour is precisely that a series of areas of life will be systemically arranged in one way that will allow for continuous and stable prevention of environmental pollution, thus allowing for the revitalisation of certain parts of it. We certainly owe it to both the present and some future generations, because this is already the case, and this will especially be the case in the future, that healthy environment and clean water will be strategic resources, perhaps even more significant than oil and gas today. Many of the proposed laws by their nature deserve a detailed and special analysis, so we find it illogical to combine this number of proposed laws, though in two packages, but although the government thinks it will save a few hours of debate with this merger, I don't think it will make these legal proposals more quality. Given that the time available to my parliamentary group does not allow it, I will refer only to the proposal for a waste management law and try to present several facts relating to the management of medical and pharmaceutical waste. This, of course, does not only fall within the scope of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, but also closely corresponds to the responsibilities of the Ministry of Health. The current situation in Serbia is to produce around 40,000 tonnes of medical waste annually. If it compares to other countries in the environment, it's not much. At the same time, health minister Mr. Milosavljevic said that it is not a problem in the amount of medical waste created, but in the way it is managed. I guess he thought that a significant part of that waste ended up in municipal dumps, that one fifth was thrown directly into containers. Taking into account that of these 40,000 tonnes of about 8,000 tonnes, it is an infectious, or dangerous waste that concerns. Infectious waste involves blood, remains of tissue, gauze, bandages, sharp objects, such as scalpels and needles, etc. Of course, we must be objective and say that lately large clinical centres and certain general hospitals in Serbia have received the appropriate apparatus for sterilising and grinding medical waste, which translates into harmless, or harmless. In addition to the normative arrangement, it is essential and training of staff to perform quality triage, i.e. separation, packaging and sterilisation of waste in health institutions. Also significant are technical conditions that are made available to staff, especially when it comes to infectious medical waste, which is dangerous for both staff and for people who collect secondary raw materials by waste. I think, too, that all of this has shown that it is crucial to standardise waste management procedures from its creation to its disposal, or destruction. In Europe, there is a kind of codification, so waste has its six-digit codification, where each digit speaks of species, subclasses, origins of waste and so on, and even in the United States, one type of destruction certificate, which contains accurate data on the time and place of destruction of waste, so it is possible to monitor the whole cycle. The DSS Group believes that this topic should be analysed more carefully and arranged to avoid not only environmental pollution, but also the risk of possible infections due to the way medical waste is disposed of. In this regard, our parliamentary group has submitted a number of very high-quality amendments and we appeal to the minister and the ruling majority to carefully consider these amendments and to accept some of them, because they will indeed make these legislative proposals more quality. I'd say one more thing at the end, since there was a general word about waste management. I think that these stimulating measures are actually very important, because it can be a very cost-effective job, especially when it comes to recycling. Otherwise, let me just say the data I came up with: about 8% of the waste is recycled in Serbia, while in Croatia, which is in our neighborhood, this is the case with 30-40% of the waste. Of course, I regret once again that all these legal proposals are put together in two packages, because they really deserve much more attention from all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16942	Thank you, colleague Lazic. I give my word to Parliamentarian Miroslav Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16943	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can first and foremost say that it is my great pleasure that this set of laws has come to the turn of debate in the assembly procedure because it is about laws that are qualitative and civil to a large extent the real progress of a country. Let us consider our country to be the most beautiful and best and life in it the best of quality, and we must be prepared to bring legal legislation that will provide real support for such desires. As far as these laws are concerned, the Environmental Protection Act itself has in principle solved a major problem that it deals with, however, by following the laws necessary to address this problem are also of great importance. What I would especially like to point out is that harmonising with European legislation does not mean that we need to do something to someone, but that we need to comply with the laws of European character, which apply in other European countries, to create a better life in our country. So, working on ourselves, practically defending ourselves from ourselves, will improve the quality of life. I would particularly refer to the waste management law because I believe that already in 2003 some basis has been laid which we have defined, we have defined the way in the future we will be strategically managing this matter, but by adopting these laws, it will be detailed at the level of local self-government, which is the key thing, because unless one law has a quality implementation in the most basic management unit, it will not have a chance to show its effects. So, the fact is that by making goals at the level of local self-government, the management programme, the collection and classification of waste, transport and, in the end, what is crucial in this law, which is recycling, which we must seriously deal with, all segments of society will have the opportunity to participate in it, so that, I say once again, we can protect ourselves from ourselves. I think the time of implementation for such a law should be reasonable, so neither too short nor too long, because by prolonging the obligations that a conscious member of society needs to have has nothing to gain, it just prolongs some bad habit that greatly worsens what we already have. I will vote for these laws myself. I don't think there's any reason why the other MPs don't vote for something that's civilized and something that will give us a chance that, as I said at first, our country, which is really beautiful, is naturally beautiful and that we keep it from ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16944	I thank Mr. Marinkovic. I give my word to the People's MP, Professor Milety Poscure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16945	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, I'd just like to ask you if I had any idea of the time to tell me how much more of this is left, so I can conjecture the speech. I will mostly refer to the law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, since due to the total amount of time available, and the fact that we have united a very large legal matter cannot be devoted to the details of all this. I will refer to the objections that I have been preparing for this session from people who are competent in the profession that it is, therefore, from the professor of atomic physics at the Faculty of Physics, the doctor of nuclear medicine dealing with it, so people who would have anything to say about this law and some of its segments. In itself, not to say the preamble because it is not a constitution, but in introductory Article 3, where the nomenclature of legal norms used in law is solved, it is seen that the absence of the need to define some concepts, such as the source, where they are said to be matter, devices and objects. They could have been a little more taxing, if for nothing else, it's just to know tomorrow when the inspector by order, regulations and sublegal acts he gets from an all-powerful agency, which is obviously at the heart of this law, the centre of attention of the law enforcement officer, so he knows where he's going to go, what he's going to ask, what to measure, where to measure, who to punish... I mean not only global measurements and monitoring, but also specific situations that can happen in the work of an inspector, well, for God's sakes, and given the very dragon measures that we see, go up to a million or three million dinars, it says for a legal person, but about that afterwards. When he looks at himself a little bit more thoroughly, there will be an entrepreneur who accepts a dead end job to get something in order, to accidentally find some contaminated object in some material, something that can emit ionizing radiation, someone to rub, plant, and so on. All this is possible and therefore the law needed a little more thorough to accept resolutions and such issues, at least through the issue of supervision and control. I mentioned that the agency is a thorn in our eye, it's a multiplication of the administration; we shut down the ministry, we open the agencies, of course it can't be that drunk. They usually take over the ministry's job; the ministry has too many employees, and then the government makes an agency. What a structure, how many people in the agency, who will enter, none of it is known. The government has absolutely the right to set up an agency as it pleases, as it pleases and according to her. Results on what they find in the field, exposures that measure the degree of radiation and exposure... Not to mention that it's not defined here at all, let's say, it's not processed and given norms, always with an effective dose of exposure to the radiation of professionally responsible people to do something, health workers or those who work in the production of medical radioactive material. It must be known how much their radiation will be in some time, the absorbed dose. Why wait for it to go into the rulebook, why would our rulebook be older than the law, what if the law did not stand as in other countries: so many and so many in five years, so many and so many within one year could be a cumulative dose? Why would we leave it all to the agency? Who's going to work at that agency, who's going to prescribe it? Why isn't that written? We had some amendments to fix it, but it would be a big intervention. Why wouldn't it be possible for the agency to have people, say, who have so much experience? You have already given some standards - three years of work experience on the tasks of measuring and controlling the quality of implementing measures. So, those who understand how to measure radioactivity in environmental patterns, those who have experience in measuring to assess the level of exposure, designing protection measures, those people should be in the agency. They will bring a normative act that someone else will carry out, punish them, but punish us more or less, than makes us safe or insecure. A complete upheaval of what we got from the NATO Pact. The government and the departments of power have taken action to do something about this waste, to remove it, but we must clearly say that we are hit with radioactive material. We'll never forgive anyone for that. They should also help us with our credit lines, to save ourselves, not to lead from us now unknown sources of record how sick people are in Serbia, how sick children are, how narrow our throats are for chemo, for radiation, etc. These are the narrow throats of our health care. It used to be coronary disease, it's still narrow, it's the second bottleneck in Serbia. There's no general plan of the health ministry to solve this problem, how much treatment it costs. Where are the loans of that kind, to try to morally remove themselves from the problems they've put us in, because they've unearthed their waste on us Serbs in "the merciful angel." So that's what you should say openly. I don't understand the need for a minister to cover himself, wash away from the fact that we've been wronged and have good relations. We cultivate relationships as we must, let's say the truth as it is. A special problem is the agency. The agency can do anything. Twenty points what the agency can do. Look wonders, the agency can also bring a program of supplementary training for professionally exposed persons and persons responsible for implementing protection measures, which should normally be carried out so-called. Legal persons, including the agency. Look, the agency's making some kind of criteria about how someone's gonna train someone. In that last attitude, he gets away with stealing: this same job can, apart from a legal person, work by agencies. In order for the agency to do it, it must have teachers, and teachers, and a board, and chalk and modern communication technologies, videos, modern teaching, interactive, etc., all sorts of fictions, but it becomes a teaching base. The agency is entitled to a bulletin of special species where it will publish its measurements and research results. What is this magazine, which is its impact factor, which will write in it, which agency employee will address it, the one that measured there in Kosovo Mitrovica? I guess he won't show up in a prestigious magazine, and is he even prestigious and who's gonna pay for it? Don't we have any other magazines, newsletters where it can be published? Why does it have to be a special paper, to print, because it's going to be a rank and level of internal use? This is how you put it like it's some kind of prestigious magazine. We have objections to Article 22(3). We've been thinking about giving the amendment, and we haven't, we don't even know how to fix the law so much, that we're erasing the Agency's competence to make training schools. Let him deal with what the government predicted, that's her body, outpost -- control, monitor, implement and issue powerful permits. When you look at all that one agency issues, take away and issue, it's three types of licenses. These are two types of inspectors and two types of ministries. Why is there no law on which minister it will be, which is the Ministry of Protection against ionic radiation, is that the Ministry of Health? To write Serbian: Ministry of Health. For nuclear security and waste management tasks – Ministry responsible for... What is the name of the Ministry of Ecology, Environment, Science and Technology? For example, in Croatia it is all done by the Ministry of Health. You know which ministry. Why should we leave the law unresolved which ministry will be competent? Let's just say the name and last name of the ministry and the point is clear. I don't see why that was so, I guess they'll later agree in the government that the ministry is going to take over, whether it's going to hire someone, not to fire him. I can't go that far in the perception of events of solving surplus employees in ministries and government, but there's a right man, when he hears the government dominating how to solve this crisis, now we're going to transfer people to that and that job. Inspection control. How are we going to do inspections in the military and the police, and there are sources of that kind of radiation? Will there be civilian inspectors? What do we call these others from the Ministry of Civil Engineering? Do they have inspectors who were otherwise competent to do this in the military and the police so far? Won't it be the same inspectors who will be able to track away some of the factors and dislocation of certain devices that emit ionized radiation? We can't let a civilian inspector, if there's any more secrets at Sutanovec, go for a walk, chase radar, chase other devices. Why isn't that jurisdiction given to military authorities? Why so much opening, discovery? I don't know what the problem is that it used to be the jurisdiction of inspection services. Finally, that's what the people who saw the law in the Department of Defense themselves think. I guess they can't tell you that, or they're not involved in this. They think it would be more logical for that authority to be entrusted to the Ministry of Defence inspectors, i.e. the Ministry of Defence. The question is whether or not we're going to write the amendment, try to make it right. You didn't consult with the Shutanovec, you can't ask him, you'll fight with each other. What a shame, it would be an election. Maybe we wouldn't have a problem like this. Imagine, the inspector's wife going up some mountain to look for radar, does she radiate, to measure something, on what occasions, when she can enter, etc.? There was really something that could have been done. It's a real picnic when you edit criminal measures, to make someone respect it, Article 84 point 16) – they'll be punished by a fine of a million and a half to three million dinars, if they don't do so, and among other things: "if they carry out the activity of the transport of a source of ionising radiation, without a license to carry out traffic". Article 65 says: the activity of traffic is done by a legal person or by an entrepreneur. Article 84 does not mention an entrepreneur. So someone's already been kicked out of the game. Either the entrepreneur won't be able to run traffic, he'll only be able to get a legal face, or he won't be punished if he's an entrepreneur, because it's only a legal person, as it stands here. He says he's doing the same one, who has a license to carry out the activity of traffic. With that license, he needs permission. This is Article 66. You can immediately see that the agency will issue a permit to someone who can traffic for someone who has a license to perform radiation work. When you look at Article 29, which it refers to, you can see that someone who deals with traffic must have two licenses: one is for transport, and one is for radiation activity. And that's where the agency is going to take the money, it's going to be the terms of someone being employed by the agency, we don't know who, by profile, by number, and whether there's going to be more experts or more administrations, whether more economists, lawyers, inspectors, than university professors who are competent to understand this thing, that exactly and clearly state what measures will be designed for nuclear facilities? There are many other questions that would be quite natural when it comes to this matter. Let's say the limits for radionuclide content will be prescribed by the agency. Why don't we put them in the law? The agency can change every year, make a prescription. Why don't we put it in the law, it's more basic? Because that inspector has some instructions, a rulebook, a sublegal act, and if the law says that so much can't be anywhere, it can only be so much and so much. Other countries would not impose such standards into their laws if it were illusory and unnecessary. This is how the law becomes very general, very undefined in certain essential segments to control its implementation, and the ability to activate the inspector almost unlimited. When it comes to waste management, we should not allow ourselves in Serbia – which is the least responsible for the pollution of every species that has hit us – most of it is those who do not want to ratify the Kyoto Agreement, the United States – our inspectors are zealously shutting down some factory or plant that deals with it, and here you have prescribed the possibility of waste and burning. Let's make the show of sulfurdioxide, or this one or that one bigger, and then two times bigger, or it's no bigger, so somebody sabotages, and you close down the factory and fire the workers. We may not be able to pollute so much, and surely some favourable winds will take away, so that it does not happen that the inspector rigorously executes every item in any repeated or extraordinary or established periodic measurement, so that it costs us the closure of the factory. Let's see if we can make it legal and help him find the filter and decontamination, fix the environment, and people don't lose their jobs because of it. Anything is possible from the rigorously prescribed rules. Most of all, we're missing probably that personal relationship to the environment, the one that every day... (President: Mr. Pocurica, time's up, bring the end. )......................................................................................................... or plastic bottle or waste. Why isn't it in the law, I'm finishing this sentence, and it's supposed to be some obligation to move from PET packaging and plastic bags to paper bags; then we'd have a completely different state, rather than putting a burden on local self-government and the will of local environmental parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16946	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zivojin Stankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16947	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, dear fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, seemingly protecting the environment acts as a topic that is not primary in the political and everyday life of a country. When you wonder what planet Earth will look like in 2050 and life on it, and given all the problems that are related to the ozone layer, to the lack of energy, to global warming, then it's really about time, and hopefully not too late, that we're all dealing with problems together to protect the environment. I am pleased that there are 16 laws in the assembly procedure that say Serbia will protect its environment. This should encourage citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the competent ministry and government, that is, the state of Serbia, is thinking about its future. All the legal proposals are really good. I'll talk about the chemical bill. The adoption of chemical laws would allow for the establishment, maintenance and improvement of a single chemical management system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment, as well as improving free transport of chemicals with EU and other countries. This would ensure the competitiveness of the economy and encourage the development of safer alternatives. The adoption of this law would harmonize the area of chemical management with EU rules, as the current regulation does not cover all areas set out in European regulations. The basic accent of European regulations governing chemical management has been put on the conditions for the transport of chemicals, i.e. the way in which chemicals affect human health and the environment. The proper management of chemicals is the primary objective of the adoption of the chemical law. One of the instruments to achieve that goal is the education of the chemical agency. In this way, the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning would be disbursed from closely specialised and professional affairs, and a specialised body would be created which would, in the future, carry out the obligations under this law more professionally and organisedly, as well as other obligations imposed in our approach to the EU. The supervision would, of course, continue to be carried out by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as well as market inspections by local self-governments entrusted with the transactions provided for in this law. In addition to predicting the formation of the agency, this law proposes integrated chemical management, classification, packaging, labelling and storage of chemicals. A chemical advisor is scheduled. Then, the integral chemical register. The restrictions and prohibitions of production, placing on the market and use of chemicals are provided for and imports and exports of certain dangerous chemicals are regulated. By passing this law, we will draw closer to EU regulations and bring our market and chemical governance in line. Also, the proposal for a waste management law is very important. In our country, waste management is currently regulated under more than 30 regulations. Therefore, the applicable waste management rules have been partially regulated, environmental protection measures are prescribed against the harmful fact of waste, and jurisdiction is divided from republican to local self-government authorities. Of course, all these regulations are not in line with the regulations that exist in the EU, so that the adoption of this law would allow the establishment of integrated waste management, from creation, through collection, transport, storage, treatment, to the final disposal of waste. In addition to these basics, it is very important to stress that regional recycling will also be regulated, whether one municipality or a group of municipalities based on the region, which will regulate waste recycling itself. Because the data on the waste that's being created in our country is really worrying, a little bit is being processed, so by adopting this law, we're going to make it much better to manage the waste than we've done so far. Also important is the bill on packaging and packaging waste. For the first time, it is particularly regulated by the law of packaging and packaging waste. That way, a very large percentage will be regulated that goes into that waste. Democratic Party MPs will support draft laws that regulate environmental protection, as well as the parliamentary group they belong to, for European Serbia. On the Committee on Environmental Protection and MPs from other parliamentary groups, they showed great interest in the adoption of these laws, as they know these laws regulate environmental protection in the state of Serbia. On this occasion, I would invite them to vote in favour of these legal projects, and to protect the interests of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16948	Thank you, Mr. Stankovic. Also Mrs Marina Ragush appeared from the list of registered deputies for the principle search on these points.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16949	I guess, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, I have 68 minutes left. Is that right? I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. (President: Sixty-eight minutes and you have nine minutes as a representative of the parliamentary group, you have not yet used, so 77 minutes total. Here you go. ) So, given my health condition, it would be a lot easier for me to, say, sit down, but from the peseta to all of you, and with understanding if there is any shaking in the voice, I will stand for these 68 minutes. I risk, of course, to always piss off ministers, but I think these are ultimately efforts to open up public discussion in front of the Serbian public. I'm a politician, so I'm no expert in environmental sciences, but politics is my house. Mr. Minister, I hope I'm not mistaken, I think he's orthopedic, and he's also not an expert in the field of environmental science. But both Mr. Minister and I are actually relying on the work of various experts in the field of environmental science. So I will actually present here certain data, information and facts that will mainly be based on the knowledge of experts who make up the Serbian scientific society. First of all, I would like to say that all my colleagues who have prepared for today's exposure in the time foreseen for the SRS parliamentary group are not, for well-known reasons, able to explain it, but I will try to present them in a decent manner. So, according to Mr. Minister's presentation, who mostly relied on what I said and found it to be false, Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian, who also prepared her presentation for today, said the following. So, the minister said nuclear waste is being temporarily stored in Vinci, which has been stored there for 60 years, and when it comes to permanent storage, it returns to the countries it came from. So, according to Ms. Elena Christmas-Talian, the minister has shown absolute ignorance from an area for which he should be competent. First, it is true that waste from the former Yugoslavia has been stored in Vinci for decades, and that is medical, industrial waste, radioactive, thunder, etc. As for permanent storage, the minister's claim that all waste is returning to the countries of origin suggests absolute ignorance of the minister. If so, why is the law on ionising radiation intended to build a permanent warehouse in the country in ten years? Otherwise, under the 1996 law, a permanent warehouse was to be built by 2000. I quoted Alexander Peric, says Mrs. Christmas-Talian, who was just talking about these locations for permanent storage. That map I presented this morning was just a symbol of how, based on the words of Mr. Alexander Peric, it might look like Serbia, not how you misread the map that was presented to you. I tried to tell Mr. Minister that he obviously didn't closely monitor my exposure; he said it was 25 locations, while I listed 16 possible locations. In fact, my presentation was based on the words, or on Mr. Alexander Peric's statement. So, only highly radioactive waste that comes from untapped reactor fuel and that has plutonium in it, that's waste that only came from Vinci, it returns to the countries of origin. It's not mandatory, it's only on the condition that we pay a huge price. If you are qualified, as current minister, then you will pay a very likely triple price. Other waste, resulting from medical, industrial, scientific use, is stored in the country, as well as a country contaminated with poor uranium, as well as ammunition with poored uranium found at less than 0.5%. Is that what the minister and government are planning to deliver this contaminated country to the White House in Washington, asks Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian. If so, then why is the country contaminated with poor uranium being brought to Belgrade, or Vinch? Why did Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian react to Mr. Secretary's reaction this morning, you'll have a chance to hear right now. So the fundamental problem is the fact that this set of environmental laws will not be applied and that it's just a dead letter on paper. The Serbian Radical Party, above all, is interested in the essential effects. If the existing laws were respected, there could be no ecological disaster, for example, caused by the Slovenian company "Star Helios" in Gornji Milanovac by poisoning forest villages with carcinogenic matter. These laws are reportedly only formally adopted because of the EU, Minister Dulic said. These laws are the main element of the European integration process, which is waiting for us this year. It points out that around 30% of our commitments from the accession process are laws and norms from the environment. Action has been launched to clear Serbia as well. Here is how Minister Dulic explains the aim of this action: "We want to point out that it is not cultural, it is not civilized, it is not patriotic to throw garbage over the balcony on the ground or throw a plastic bottle out of the car or throw a refrigerator or an old fiche into the river, because it is an act of enmity towards nature and the future of our children." Nicely said by the minister and I completely agree with him, but this retraining of Serbian citizens sounds hypocritical when it comes to the following facts. My question is -- how would the minister qualify for NATO's aggression against our country where forbidden ammunition was used with impoverished uranium? What kind of a monstrosity, uncivilized act, that permanently poisoned our environment with impoverished uranium and threatened the lives of the inhabitants? The number of dead and suffering from the consequences caused by the impoverished uranium has not yet been correctly established, and it will probably never be, because it needs to be hidden from the public. A scientific paper by a group of scientists at the Institute of Medicine and Radiological Protection "Dr Dragomir Karajovic" in Belgrade said 12 times the number of cancer patients had increased in Vranj by ten years. In the next decade, the result of NATO bombings is expected to further increase cancer in adults and genetic deformations in newborn children. In the period from 27 October to 5 November 2001, experts from the UN Environment Programme and Yugoslav experts carried out a mission to assess environmental hazards in southern Serbia and Montenegro. Air sample equipment was also used in this mission. The amazing fact is that after 2.5 years, radioactive particles in the air have been detected! This means that radioactive particles are still transmitted to large distances through the air, endangering the environment and the health of the population. At the end of 2003, the same UN programme carried out a mission to assess the environmental threat in BiH at some sites where ammunition with poor uranium was used in 1995. There are also radioactive particles detected here in the air, full of eight years after the bombing! Given that the half-life of poor uranium and uranium oxides is very long, almost eternal for our average life span and generations after us, it can be realized that it is a permanent particle radioactive and particle pollution that cannot be naturally neutralized, according to the scientific work mentioned. Minister Dulic is very strict, that's what I felt on my skin today, when he qualified to throw plastic bottles out of the car, and that's okay. But don't you think it's scandalous that the state has yet to press charges against the International Court of Justice for this crime? The use of ammunition with impoverished uranium, according to international regulations in this area, can qualify as a war crime. I want to point out a very complex situation regarding the Vinci Institute of Nuclear Sciences, because many things are obviously very tendingly hidden from the public's eyes. Vincha is the oldest and largest scientific institute, with a 60-year-old tradition. Only in this institute are experts who understand the problems and dangers that nuclear material can bring. This institute is the only domestic competent protection against possible abuse and failure in the use of this type of material, and they are used in medicine, industry; they have also been used in NATO aggression. I will start with a scandalous decision by the Democratic Party in the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mr. Djelic, and the leadership of the Institute to build a nuclear environmental bomb in Vinca, in the middle of Belgrade. The problem was discussed by experts from Vinca, such as Dr Filip Vukajlovic. Dr Filip Vukajlovic, a certified scientific worker, is also a member of the SRS Science and Technology Council. So, on everything Dr Filip Vukajlovic had turned his attention to in public, there were very few words. What's this about? The Ministry of Science and Minister Djelic are literally forcing the Vinca Institute to raise a $25m loan to complete a state project titled "Wind". What is the Wind Project? Part of what this project means, because the rest is kept secret, is the removal of spent reactor fuel and decommissioning, i.e. the decommissioning of reactors. Otherwise, we've been talking about reactor decommissioning for several years. The government plans to break up and cut down a reactor, which represents a single machine, and its value, according to experts, is about $100m. For this reactor, all the equipment has been purchased and experts point out that it can be revitalised and activated. It's invaluable because it enables research into high-tech nuclear technologies. However, given the poor economic situation, there is no possibility of revitalisation and release of reactors, experts point out that the reactor should not be cut in any way, as it can be preserved. That's what the Dutch did for example. By breaking up the reactor, cutting is an additional nuclear waste. So when you cut the reactor, you get nuclear waste that you have to store somewhere. It will all be stored in the middle of Belgrade. The Vinča Institute started the construction of a real nuclear environmental bomb, so the largest hangar (hangar three) for the accommodation of radioactive waste. This new hangar is being built to house the waste from two other metal hangars, which are in very poor condition. Hangar one is in a particularly bad state. In these two hangars, radioactive waste created during the work of the Vinch Institute, as well as other parts of the former Yugoslavia, has been stored. So it's about medical, industrial waste, radioactive thunderbolts. In hangar three, nuclear waste from reactor decommissioning should be stored. So this is official information from the Vinci Institute. When it comes to realising this job, decommissioning reactors and repacking spent nuclear fuel, it's very dangerous. We don't have professional people to work with radioactive material. Who's going to carry it? The decision to store nuclear waste in Belgrade, under any circumstances, is irresponsible, insane and, above all, dangerous. You can never predict what can happen. Even a little carelessness could cause a real disaster. For the complete business of breaking up or decommissioning the reactor, according to the government's estimates, it takes 57,000,000 dollars. However, expert estimates show that the decommissioning cannot be completed without 80,000,000 - $100,000. Another amazing piece of information: according to the Ministry's recognition, the leadership of the Vinc Institute and the Wind project has already spent 10,000 euros on paper projects, and literally nothing concrete has been done. Where did that money go and whose pockets? Now again, the team gathered around this project is trying to do something and still need money. The project is mainly managed by the Democratic Party's staff. Both in the government and in the leadership of Vinci are their personnel. The Scientific Greater and the Vince Management Board strongly opposed the 25,000,000-dollar loan, despite many sharp threats from the Ministry of Science, including Minister Djelic himself, because it is clear that they want to force Vinci to take a loan that he would not be able to pay through a year. The question arises why is there so much pressure to carry out decommissioning, decommissioning reactors and creating additional nuclear waste, when it is in our interest to preserve the reactor? And if there's no way now that the reactor is revitalised and powered, then it's much simpler and far more cost-effective to preserve. Government officials could hear that the state allegedly committed itself to these transactions by international contracts, but no one saw those contracts because they were allegedly confidential. However, the answer to this question, as well as to all issues related to the systematic destruction of Vinca since 2000, is that the aim is to make it impossible for our experts to work and achieve significant results in the area of high nuclear technologies. A monopoly in high-tech nuclear technology wants America and the U.S. administration won't let the reactor start. They want to destroy any possibility of ever happening in the future, and that's why they won't even allow the reactor to be preserved. They're destroying Vinci so we'll have to pay them later for all the projects and achievements in this area. It is our political confidence and we understand and understand the decisions the Serbian government makes on this matter. Pressures began in 2001, when Vinchu visited Montgomery, the American ambassador at the time. That, Mr. Minister, I suppose, you remember. I'll also remind you how the so-called process began. Recovering the nuclear problem in Vinci. In 2002, enriched fuel, unexhausted reactor fuel, which is completely harmless, was returned to Russia. That fuel was purchased from the Russians in the '80s and is returned to where it was purchased from. With that fuel reactor in Vinci, he could work and serve science for the next 20 years. The value of this fuel is over $100,000. The US administration has again insisted on fuel delivery, in order to prevent reactors from being launched. The execution of such a move was then warned by scientificly greater physics in the open letter, whose signatories were Dr Filip Vukajlović and Dr Dragomir Davidovic. The letter points out that this fresh nuclear fuel represents another valuable thing in the domain of nuclear technologies that we have left and its alienation path to these technologies in the future would be permanently closed to us. The whole effort so far and the sacrifice of work would be ruined. We'd only have to deal with nuclear waste, and that's only at a very primitive level, because carrying out fresh fuel doesn't involve carrying out nuclear waste. The signatories warned that the alienation of this valuable fresh fuel must be conditioned by the simultaneous release from the country of Lung Fuel. However, fresh fuel was given for nothing. No agreement has been made to take this fuel out of the country by carrying out spent reactor high-radioactive fuel. The U.S. administration was ready to agree to that, but then the government accepted empty promises. The problem was reportedly promised to help six million-dollar NGO NTA owned by Donald Trump. Whether it's a clear irresponsibility of the authorities or if some of them have fallen off well, that's the question. I guess it's different before this. At that time, on the orders of the Americans, Djindjic ordered that this insane action be carried out. The then director of the Institute was Krunoslav Subotic, and the minister of science, Mr. Domazet. Fresh non-hazard nuclear fuel worth $100,000 has been exported, and the rest is garbage, or just nuclear waste. Now a project has been launched to which the fuel used should be repacked and transported to Russia by 2010, but now it will cost us a lot, no one knows how much, and Ukraine is opposed to going through its territory. There must be no more secrets here. The public must, according to Article 74. Serbia's constitution, to make all data available. Vinca experts say there has always been a relatively powerful nuclear lobby in Serbia that represents the interests of Americans. The goal is to build an atomic power plant here one day. Right now, we're clearing the ground for it, and it's breaking up Vinci, and it's building a nuclear waste warehouse. Another scandalous fact is that NATO's radioactive waste during its aggression has been dumped throughout Serbia in the form of poored uranium supply and storage in Belgrade! For ten years now, from a location in southern Serbia, a contaminated country with impoverished uranium has been transporting and stockpiling in Vinca. So, radioactive waste is being placed in the capital where, if there's something unexpected, the damage would be the biggest. We're interested in whose crazy idea this is. Radioactive waste that stems from cleaning sites is stored in hangar two and includes a contaminated country collected from three locations in southern Serbia, which is packed in 50 metal barrels of 200kg, and a waste ammunition with an impoverished uranium packaged in metal boxes. This is also official data from Vinci. It's like having ten tons of polluted land in the middle of the Terrace. Belgrade has the largest nuclear waste, but paradoxically, the city's administration of Belgrade does not have a law on nuclear security, i.e. nuclear waste management and management. The law on protection against ionising radiation provides for a place of permanent disposal of nuclear waste in ten years, however, no one knows where. We have a statement from April 2008 by the chairman of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce for Ecology, Mr. Aleksandr Peric, who I told you about this morning, and I would not repeat myself. So what is the essence of setting up this problem for the start of this exhibition is that the public in Serbia must know, have the right to do so, and Serbian authorities must provide quality and timely information. What is also very important, and concerns the period of Serbia's 78-day bombing, known as the "Merciful Angel" action, will also be the information I will present to you and I believe you will respond to in your tried-out style, but before that, I might start by presenting the story to the president of your party, the president of the state, on March 23rd of this year, at the 6097th Security Council meeting. So that should be an introduction to what we're trying to open this morning and what we're going to open these days and finally prove that we're right. Here's what Mr. Tadic said at the time: "Tomorrow, March 24th, it will be the 10th anniversary of the start of NATO's bombing of my country. I would like to remind you that this tragic event that lasted for 78 days was taken without the decision of this body. During the three-month period, during which cities and villages were killed, they were bombed every day, two and a half thousand civilians died, including 89 children, and 12,500 people were injured." However, the number of victims, Mr. Minister, according to the president of your party and the president of the Serbian state, does not include those who have suffered as a result by getting the most severe diseases, such as leukemia. Also, Mr Tadic goes on to say, "We were collectively accused, and then collectively bombed, because it was then claimed that the persecution of 800,000 ethnic Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija took place. The result of this tragic war is that the ultimate balance of 200,000 ethnic Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija has actually been exiled. "I intend to go with Mr Tadic's words to avoid that argument – you're always saying you're wrong, we're doing it and it didn't actually happen. We will today try to show a direct link between the bombing of the poor uranium and the increase of carcinogenic diseases in the Republic of Serbia, of which indeed a large number of people have died. What is also very important for further exposure, what the Serbian public absolutely knows nothing about, is Mr. Curkin's speech, which is otherwise the Russian Federation's ambassador to the Security Council and who reacted in the only right way. So, after a lesson Mr. Tadic received from the ambassadors of Great Britain and the United States, that it was not a humanitarian disaster, not a responsibility to target the impoverished uranium, but rather a protection of the population by shooting at a civilian population for 78 days with ammunition with poor uranium, Mr. Curkin said: "Today's meeting somehow coincides with a number of tragic anniversarys in Kosovo's history. First, most importantly, is the start of NATO's aggression in Yugoslavia, which was taken without a Security Council decision. Our British colleague gave a very detailed presentation of the chronology of events, but of course, as a British colleague does, he was very selective. For example, there was no question of terrorist activities, so-called terrorist activities. Kosovo's Liberation Army has carried out its terrorist activities for ten years and has led to tragic events in March 1999. During the 78-day bombing campaign, who died? Mostly civil buildings were destroyed, so factories, bridges, infrastructure. The Belgrade TV station was bombed only because, ladies and gentlemen, it represented a different picture. And what really shouldn't be ignored is a complete balance of victims in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. "As the stenograms of this Security Council session will be the subject of my presentations in the coming days, I would now really pay attention to information that is very important. This information is also owned by the former Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that, Mr. Minister, you can consult them and see for yourself the credibility of this information, and then see who the signatories of this field work are. This information will first serve the Serbian public to see what actually happened during the 78 days of the bombing. So, NATO air force used ammunition during the SRJ aggression with an impoverished uranium of 238 from 30 mm aircraft cannons, type A-10 A. These planes entered formations that bombed objects on the territory of SRJ on 30 March 1999 by bombarding the wider Prizren area. Later, they were in formations that bombed buildings in the area south of the 44th parallel. Evidence of NATO's aggression against the SRJ used ammunition with poor uranium 238 are samples and ammunition remains of 30 mm API PGU 14/B, found in the districts where NATO's aggressor acted on aircraft of type A-10 A. The contamination of uranium land 238 was established at locations that were bombed during the aggression by NATO planes A-10 A. Also, an official statement by the Secretary General and other NATO officials on the quantity and locations of ammunition use with impoverished uranium during the aggression on SRJ. During NATO aggression, radiological and chemical reconnaissance of the aircraft's A-10 A. Detailed reconnaissance and removal of ammunition from the impoverished uranium at the end of NATO aggression, evidence was collected that the SRJ territory south of the 44th parallel, therefore, outside the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, at eight locations, the NATO aggressor used this type of ammunition. Of these locations, seven are on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, one on the territory of the Republic of Montenegro. Mr. Ministers, these are the following locations: Oljačevica - north of Vranja, Borovac - south of Bujanovac (two locations), Čerenovac - southwest of Bujanovac (two locations), Bratoselce - northeast of Presevo and Reljan - east of Presevo. In the Republic of Montenegro, the region of the fortress of Arza, on the peninsula of Luštica. In the reconnaissance area, radioactive waste dumps were collected from the surface of the country with an impoverished uranium of 238. From the face of the site were taken samples of land, and the entire material was analysed at the Vinč Institute of Nuclear Sciences, the Institute for Health Protection of Workers in Nis and VMA, in addition to the measurements carried out on site. The results of the analysis of individual samples show that they are the same with very pronounced contamination, in which specific activity is increased up to 350 times. After the collection and the results of the analysis by the Vinč Institute of Nuclear Sciences and the Institute of Health Protection of Workers in Nis, five areas of radioactive contamination were allocated whose recovery was necessary. These are districts with the following characteristics:Borovac - two, south of Bujanovac about 10 km, it is fact that on May 26, 1999, Bratoselce - northeast of Presevo about 10 km, it is fact that on May 27, 1999, the country's samples found contamination of poor uranium 238, and activity from 9 to 116 times the limit. The next district is Reljan, east of Presevo about 10 km, it was established on 28 May 1999, that the presence of radioactive contamination in poor uranium is 238 to two microlocations; that the robbery - north of Vranja about four kilometers, was in fact 29 May 1999, the country's samples show a very high content of the poored uranium 238 and activity from 230 to 1100 times the limit; the Arza fortress on the Luštica Peninsula -- it is fact that on 30 May 1999, the sample analysis established the contamination of the poor uranium from 238 to 350 times the limit. Also in the country's samples from other locations, contamination of poor uranium has been observed 238. The amount of poored uranium that has contaminated the locations is difficult to determine precisely. Based on the unit and command reports of the Yugoslav Army made during NATO aggression, the results of the reconnaissance of the area following the completion of the aggression and the known data on this type of ammunition and the way it was used, it can be estimated that NATO forces fired between 3,000 and 5,000 grains with an impoverished uranium of 238, equivalent to the total amount of about 1 - 1.5 tonnes of poor uranium 238, contaminant at these locations. After obtaining data from NATO officials on the ammunition-enriched range of facts, the Yugoslav Army approached radiological reconnaissance of areas that had not been scouted in the previous period. So far, another range of ammunition remains has been found near Bujanovac. From there, samples were taken and their analysis was under way at the Vinca Institute. According to literature, some cruise missiles contain between 10 and 20 kg of poor uranium 238. Studies have been carried out of all the locations by which cruise missiles have been actual during the aggression. More detailed radio-chemical reconnaissance of Kosovo and Metohija was not possible. According to the Yugoslav Army, during NATO aggression, NATO aircraft A-10 A have been operating in this area at over 112 locations. The most intense facts were in the districts: Prizren, Uroševac, Đakovica, Decani and Đurakovac. According to NATO estimates, about 31,000 missiles were fired, and about 50,000 missiles were estimated by the Yugoslav Army. What was then proposed is that, in contact with NATO Force Commanders and other relevant factors, it insists on obtaining accurate data on locations and other fact parameters, therefore, coordinates, number of grains, time effects by ammunition with an impoverished uranium of 238 in the SRJ space. Based on studies of trace remains of missiles and gamma spectrometric measurements and the identification of present radionuclides in the causes of material, it can be reliably claimed that the forces of NATO aggressors during the aggression on SRJ were effective with ammunition enriched with uranium 238. The ammunition bears the API PG 14/B mark. Based on the determined gamma dose strength on contact with the penetrator and the values prescribed by the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna with valid basic standards for protection against ionising radiation from 1996, the analysed parts of the projectile are classified as radioactive material, which is applied in peace only at the prescribed level of protection. In other words, read it, Mr. Minister, it's forbidden. Given the estimated amount of ammunition used in the effects, the high likelihood of self-inflation, as well as measured activities, which are several hundred times higher than in the natural content of uranium in the land, it can be concluded that the use of these ammunition leads to environmental contamination, with long-term environmental effects and local population. Uranium is a material of great density. Burning creates products that are radioactive and toxic. The impact of the uranium core on a solid barrier creates a high temperature and at least 10% of the total mass of the impoverished uranium burns and passes to uranium oxide aerosols. Up to 70% of penetrators, or poored uranium, pass into aerosols. These particles can be entered into the organism by inhaling. They've been deposited for years in the lungs, kidneys, bones and the brain. They contaminate the surrounding environment; depending on meteorological conditions, they can be spread at different distances, up to 40 km, which can contaminate wider space. Uranium 238 is poorly soluble in water and body fluids, while uranium oxides are better dissolved, so that in time they can contaminate both groundwater and over plants, in the form of livestock food, contamination of animals and humans. The effects of this type of ammunition on the living force and population are fatal because contamination occurs. Contamination results in toxic and radiation effects leading to cancer. The radioactivity and toxicity of uranium and its products cause various diseases, such as dermatitis, renal impairment, acute necrotic arterial lesions (and here we are, Mr. Minister, for the first time, on your soil), and death. Inhaling tiny particles into the lungs can lead to cancerous internal organs. After a very long period, therefore, for 20 - 25 years, late effects arise: malignant changes, mostly bronch cancer, osteosarcoma, leukosis, liver tumors. These consequences are yet to be felt by our population. The poored uranium is a by-product in the preparation of fuel for nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons and represents a very dangerous radioactive waste. Its preservation poses a great danger and a problem for every country with developed nuclear technology. The degree of danger well illustrates the following example presented by Leonard Dic in his article. In February 1980, the New York State court order forced the plant to produce a penetrator of poor uranium to stop production, as the prescribed levels of radiation in the air were exceeded each month. This value corresponded to the amount of 387 grams of the poored uranium. Compared to that, there's only one penetrator in a 30-millimeter plane cannon missile containing 298 grams of impoverished uranium. The scientist mentioned in his letter asking the newsletter of atomic scientists questions – if the authorities of the state of New York banned it because they are concerned about the releases that are equivalent to particles of only one or two uranium missiles each month, why is the US government not concerned about the effects of tens and tens of thousands of missiles fired in a few days of war? The reasons for the bombing of the SRJ cannot be considered human or saved by the Albanian population. During that bombing, Mr. Minister, the Albanian population was also killed. The consequences of the bombing, Mr. Minister, at the highest percentage and the number will also be felt by the Albanian population, as there are still traces of Serbs in those areas or none at all. Doesn't this cause suspicion that NATO's aggressor forces, first of all America, are trying systematically to destroy the next generation, firstly again speaking, of the Albanian population, by throwing out their radioactive waste at those locations? In addition to the local population, the dangers of impoverished uranium are also exposed to KFOR and Unmik, which, of course, exist only in the tracks now, but also applies to Eulex. America is trying to use ammunition with impoverished uranium to justify greater efficiency in the anti-arming fight. The increased penetration of sub-caliber ammunition is neither the only nor the main reason. It is also achieved by using penetrators made of tungsten or titanium. For the production of penetrators from impoverished uranium and the use of such ammunition, the most important thing is that the United States releases large amounts of hazardous radioactive waste, whose disposal and storage is expensive. In view of the above, it can be argued that the use of ammunition with poored uranium 238 is a violation of the basic principles of international humanitarian law. This comes from the following: unnecessary destruction and excess suffering are applied; the particles of the impoverished uranium introduced into the organism seem harmful to the health of man throughout life; the harmful effects are also reflected on the offspring of those exposed to his action. Therefore, ammunition with poored uranium should be prohibited because people suffer unnecessary suffering and excessive injuries, and in application they achieve effects that are not in line with military goals. In addition, the poored uranium is toxic and radioactive, which also confirms that such ammunition should be prohibited weapons. Two, ammunition with poor uranium belongs to the category of non-selective weapons, mass destruction, because it produces a fact against persons who are not in war conflicts. The spread of the particles of the poored uranium cannot be controlled or prevented, thus endangering the civilian population. Contamination of the particles of the poored uranium is particularly dangerous for women and children. In contact with the remains of the projectile by the unlisted population, due to the presence of radioactivity, changes in the skin are visible in less than 80 hours. Under three, particles of impoverished uranium have contaminated the land for thousands of years. Given the time of half-life of poor uranium 238, believe me, I don't want to calculate now, but many generations of people, regardless of their national or religious belonging, will be exposed to the adverse consequences of poor uranium 238. Thus, this causes extensive and long-term contamination of the natural environment. Based on the chemical activity of uranium oxides in the environment with certainty, environmental contamination can be expected. This fact is well-known to the owners of this type of weapon, which clearly shows that NATO has deliberately caused significant, long-term and dangerous radioactive environmental pollution in our country by using ammunition with impoverished uranium. The territory and neighbouring countries, which were not in conflict, have been threatened. The spread of particulates of poor uranium cannot be controlled or prevented, thus jeopardising the civilian population of neighbouring countries: Albania, Macedonia, Bulgaria. Fifthly, the areas according to which NATO's air force was based were inhabited. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is a European country, a crossroads to the east. Uncontrollably, by dropping radioactive waste from the United States, NATO-based bombers attacked and endangered Europe. Sixth, because of the presence of radioactivity, it is classified as a radiological weapon. Its use for war purposes cannot be justified by reasons of military or political, let alone humanitarian nature. According to various sources and knowledge, it causes lasting consequences for the population and after the end of the war. According to the Resolution of the Sub-Committee for the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities of the UN Human Rights Commission of 1996 and 1997, the application of these weapons of mass and non-selective destruction is contrary to norms, Mr Minister, international and humanitarian law. Seven, according to international and our tenants, uranium 238 belongs to another group of radionuclides very high radioactivity and toxicity, so its use in this type of ammunition by military and civil infrastructure is absolutely inhumane due to the current effects and long-term contamination, which is virtually unlimited due to the long-term half-life of uranium 238. In line with the above, it was then proposed that the SRJ, following its experience, have the following experiences both individual and collectively many of us who have lost close persons, supported the initiative to ban production and use ammunition with poor uranium. Information on the implementation of the tasks to be tackled as a result of the use of ammunition with the impoverished uranium 238 and the proposal for activity, which has been delivered to the relevant republican and federal authorities, and I will tell you, that is the act of the Yugoslav Army General Staff of 21. 12. In 1999, filed under number 492.1, 492/3 of 17. 2. In 2000, there were naturally proposed solutions to the recovery, decontamination of defined areas of increased radioactivity in five phases. So, Mr. Minister, you see that we've tried to prepare ourselves for this exposure as best we can. This information should, and in the context of your party's opening statement, be of use to you as an argument, because we will demand during this session that the state of Serbia sues the NATO Alliance for the humanitarian disaster it has committed in the territory of Serbia as a whole. During this session, we will also press and get to know the Serbian public, because we can only do so as an opposition, that the state of Serbia protects all those who have been sick and honors those who have passed away. We also know that there is information on VMA that 600 members of the Yugoslav Army in the period from 2002 to 2003 were subjected only to blood tests to determine the consequences of the actions of the poored uranium 238 in the areas where they were located. The project was abruptly interrupted, as the 2002 and 2003 data, Mr. Minister, and the humanist should have been disastrous. Also, the Ministry of Defence, VMA did not want to give invalid retirement to those who really defended the country's Cypriot terrorists, only because they did not want proof that NATO's alliance had been a health, moral, civilian disaster and the most brutal crime of 78 days. Why? So the Serbs don't realize they're getting compensation. Who will have the compensation, Mr. Minister, to serve? Those who remain after the people who have been directly exposed to these blows. Apparently, what will remain in Serbia should now work and earn money and funds to heal, with a very uncertain end. As a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, my colleague listed very frantic data, as regards the increase, i.e. the ratio of cancer from the end of 1990 to the end of 2008. In malignancies, this ratio is 173 to 672; premalignant disease - 201 to 7.733, children with malformations - 66 to 339; perinatal mortality - 50 to 367. Not to mention a high percentage of the incidence of sterility in young couples, not to mention consequences such as Balkan syndrome. On all this, Mr. Minister, you will have the opportunity to hear in the discussion in detail. I hope that during this presentation, I have done nothing to hurt your function or, God forbid, your personality, I have only tried to give you information that, if you have an interest, and that will be available to you. What really was most important to me, this is truly a tribute to all those who fell during a campaign called "Mercy Angel." This also drew the Serbian public's attention to what the Serbian government is saying and what the true face of the American, British, German and Brussels administration is. However, all these administrations, even on behalf of all of you, which I know you are fully in line with all humanitarian and human principles, should be told – the experiment has failed, patients, as you can see, will still live and will always exist, even if this last radical, someone who will speak from the Serbian Parliament's speaker to the American, British and all other ambassadors who participated in killing Serbs to tell the most cruel truth about the crime that took place on the territory of Europe because one state has decided to deal with terrorism, that a few years later George W. Bush would launch a global campaign against terrorism. Watch out for double standards. So, Serbian citizens, regardless of national, religious, cultural or any other belonging, this is what life looks like in Serbia. What the Serbian Radical Party (today I tried with dignity to present those 1,220,000 votes that we received in May last year and 78 mandates and those MPs who are far from this regular session) guarantees is that we will insist on preparing a lawsuit against all those who have joined in the crime against the SRJ and its population. We also think, Mr. Minister, that we should help you specifically, as well as to the Serbian government, with certain information and our knowledge based on our work on Dr. Vojislav Seselj's case, and some other defense teams, to jointly respond to the criminals who have made us a criminal nation and are trying to amnesty themselves. What is totally unacceptable and what we will insist on is that in Serbia alone we are talking about, that Serbian media is very little or in the tracks dealing with what is an unremembered crime of the modern century, and we will use, especially in the debate in particular, foreign sources. Seeing as this is only the 55th minute, it means that I have about 13 more minutes, which I will be very happy to use to call on certain sources that only confirm what I've been talking about and which also indicate that the Serbian government should be helped to finally stand in the protection of the national interests of the Serbian state. Mr. Boris Aleksic has also prepared a certain exhibition, unfortunately, is unable to present it at the moment, so I will try. He asks the question of the responsible from the Serbian government – is the poored uranium the only source of poisoning for Serbian citizens? You know that the NATO Pact, we spoke very closely of, poisoned our country with poor uranium in 1999. Mr. Aleksic says, "When authorities in Washington first tested ammunition with impoverished uranium on US soil, they concluded that decontamination of the area would cost almost $8 billion. Then they declared this land a national sacrifice zone. However, experts in Serbia have long invented a tool based on a volcanic Zeolite mineral, which successfully absorbs up to 80% of the impoverished uranium. What happened? Plans have been made to throw Zeolith into contaminated areas in southern central Serbia and to save our citizens and nature from lethal radiation. However, the Serbian government has not approved funds for the venture, vital to our citizens. This time of you," says Mr. Alexic, "I remind you that Zeolite prepared by a certain procedure can be used in terms of, for example, the capsule and human nutrition. "So why doesn't our country have a population protection strategy because of the poisoning of the impoverished uranium, which NATO's pact contaminated our country? Why are no funds invented by Serbian Zeolite-based experts successfully absorbing up to 80% of poor uranium? Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the culmination of the disease and the adverse consequences of human health are expected 10 and 25 years after aggression, respectively. A colleague who was also unable to talk about such an important topic for this speaker, and we should really thank the experts from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Mr. Minister, yes, and Dr. Dušanka Plecevic, she comes from Bor. Bor is an environment that has become completely unacceptable to everyday life. So Dr Plecevic says: "It is well known that Bor is one of the most polluted cities in Serbia, that the ecological black hole is on Serbia's geographical map. In the 106-year-old mining, the original relief of the area was changed; the mountain of the cave and the dead Borska river, which became an open collector, is a new landscape, which leaves not only the inhabitants of Bora and the surrounding area, but also all the people who come to the area. Of course, mining has also brought a better standard to generations of miners and their families, as well as to the municipality itself. What has been a feature in the last 50 years – impactless, senseless mining of ore, without a proper plan in the area of protection of soil, air and water, has led to an unbearable situation to be in the air at least once at least once, and often several times during the day from the chimney of the smelter and electrolysis of copper emits the entire periodary system of elements, but several hundred times above the allowed value. The most released sulfur dioxide and oxides of heavy metals live, lead, zinc, Germanium, cesium, arsenic, various carcinogenic matter, who knows what else. If we know that there is a continuous cycle of gas, water and everything else in nature, we can assume the degree of pollution for the last century of exploitation. Whoever was in Bor once experienced a close encounter with these burning gases in the eyes, with metallic taste in the mouth, asphyxiation and cough due to sulfuric acid that occurs when sulfur dioxide comes into contact with tears and sweat. An increase in mortality from the most severe diseases I'm not even talking about. So it is not only the city of Bor, because of a mine that pollutes air, water and land, but also agricultural production in the surrounding villages is impossible. The villages most endangered are Slatina, Ostrljej, Velika Krimelj and threatened with the threat of poverty. We, the citizens of Bora, long await investment in Bora, ecological recovery, development of agriculture and tourism. In 2006, when the price of copper on the London Stock Exchange was $9,000 per tonne, local self-government proposed that an acceptable privatisation strategy be adopted for Bor, with respect for all environmental standards. However, Bora's fate has taken over the government's all-powerful professionally untouchable institution called Mr. Mladjan Dinkic. What did we get? In addition to the games around the failed sale to non-serious customers who wanted to buy the entire bazaar, nothing happened in terms of the comprehensive development of Bora. "Mr. Minister, as I said at the beginning, I am in my place, even though I am trained to deal with politics; you are orthopedic with the aim of improving daily life and environmental situation in Serbia's territory from the position of the Minister for Environmental Protection. I hope, Mr. Minister, that, with mutual respect, we will try to get it through to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16950	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, or possibly someone who did not exercise his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint principled search on: Proposal for a law on the prohibition of development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and its destruction, Proposal for a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, Proposal for a law on protection against non-polluting radiation, Proposal for a law on chemicals, Proposal for a law on biocidal products, Proposal for a law on waste management and a proposal for a law on packaging and packaging waste. We'll continue work in 60 minutes, which means 1535 hours. [[After break – 15.40]] Dear People's MPs, we continue the session. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Life Centres (Common principled search with 8, 9, 10, 11 and 14 points) Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I realize that time is allocated to MPs' groups in proportion to the number of MPs of MPs, and this: MEP Group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; MEP Group SRS – one hour, eight minutes and 24 seconds; MEP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; MEP group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Sender group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MEP Group – 18 minutes; MEP Group LDP – 14 minutes and 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Send group with a single group of six, 10 minutes and a second group of Serbia – a single group with a single group of 10 minutes. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to file a statement with a number of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that the parliamentary groups have authorised them to represent them by these points of the agenda: For European Serbia - Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, the SRS Parliamentary Group - National MP Marina Ragus, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group - National MP Milica Vojic-Marković, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group - National MP Miletic Mihajlović, Parliament Group Nova Serbia - National MP Zlata Djeric and the PUPS Group - National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a common principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, Proposal for a Law on Air Protection, Proposal for a Law on Nature Protection, Proposal for a Law on the Protection of noise in the Environment, Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund, Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the Environment. Let me inform you that I have called for these sessions: Mr. Miladin Avramov, State Secretary, Aleksandar Vesic, Assistant Minister Ljiljana Stanojevic, Assistant Minister, as well as Jelena Cvetkovic. Also present will be: Ivica Radovic, State Secretary, Mrs Danica Bacanovic, Assistant Minister and Radislav Momirov, Assistant Minister also. I called for the session to be attended by Momcilo Zivkovic, director of the Environment Protection Agency. I would just like to say that a later announcement has arrived that the authorised representative under this law is Dr Zoran Masic for the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Oliver Dulic, the environment minister and spatial planning, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16952	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear friends, we move on. The main reason for the amendments and additions of the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment is the more precise regulation of the role of different actors in this process. A more precise definition of certain provisions of the existing law will enable competent authorities to work more efficiently and make timely decisions. Mr. Minister, they can't hear you very well. Would you mind picking up your mikes a little bit? Thank you. I can't pick them up. He's fixing the microphones. Is he okay now? Yes, it is. ) This will certainly result in a sensitive reduction in the period for obtaining consent in the environmental impact assessment study. The amendments to the law give the possibility to shorten the duration of the procedure with existing and unjustly long 270 days on the planned 108 days, excluding the appeal period for which the application of the Administrative Procedure Act is foreseen. The important objective of amending the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment is to specify the link between urban and building regulations. The proposed amendments also allow the competent authority to set minimum environmental protection measures by means of a solution to be released from the impact assessment study. This would avoid the possibility of requiring two to three environmental protection measures to carry out an assessment, i.e. an impact assessment study, thus increasing the costs of the procedure and extending the time limit until the final completion of the procedure. It is estimated that the adoption of this law will significantly facilitate and speed up the implementation of a large number of economic projects, while ensuring a high level of legal certainty for all participants in the process. This will help Serbia's economy to be more attractive to investment, and will make it easier for our businesses to be more competitive on the international market. The aim of this law is to avoid the possibility of abuse of environmental impact assessment institutes by our administration and the possibility that the administration may arbitrarily determine the necessity of an environmental impact assessment in cases where there is no legitimate and valid reason. The purpose of the air protection law is to establish, maintain and improve a single air quality management system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This law, above all, provides for measures to protect and improve air quality, which aim to prevent or minimise adverse effects on human health and the environment. The air protection law is another law prepared in the process of harmonising domestic legislation with EU legislation. At present, there are over 30 regulations in the EU, above all, a directive that regulates air protection. The full compliance of this area with EU law will be achieved after the adoption of this law and the adoption of the sublegal acts provided for in the draft air protection law. In order to effectively manage air quality, a single air quality database shall be established to monitor and control air pollution levels and maintain air quality databases. The competent authorities for the establishment of national and local networks and the conditions under which monitoring can be carried out have been specified. The law establishes a new concept of air quality management within the zone and agglomerations, which are established by a government act, based on air quality data. The air quality categories are determined according to the level of pollution, and for zones and agglomerations in which the third category air is mandatory air plans are adopted. The aim of these plans is to improve air quality and achieve the target values set by the Air Quality Requirements Regulation. The measures prescribed to improve air quality include: the regulation of emission limit values of polluting substances from stationary and mobile sources of pollution, the regulation of the permitted quantities of certain pollutants in certain products, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the gradual reduction of use of substances that damage the ozone layer, as well as the determination of responsibilities for the non-implementation of measures. The bill also provides for the adoption of a strategy for air protection, as a basic document, with a six-year period of validity, to identify air quality requirements, short-term action plans and air pollution reduction programmes. The environmental law provides for the adoption of a special law to regulate the protection, improvement and use of nature and its biological and landscape of diversity. We are fulfilling this legal obligation today by presenting you with a bill on nature protection. Nature protection is one of the basic areas in environmental protection. The need to preserve and protect the ecological heritage, which often knows no borders, obliges all countries to preserve Europe's biodiversity with their normative, planning and other measures. The continuing deterioration of natural habitats and threats to certain species of wild flora and fauna is among the key issues of EU environmental policy. Today, it is estimated to be seriously endangered in Europe, or at the edge of extinction, about a thousand plant species and more than 150 different species of birds. According to the number of species compared to the size of the territory, Serbia's biodiversity is among the largest in Europe. In addition to the Balkan endemics, subdemic species are present in Serbia's flora. The diversity of fauna is also extremely high compared to the situation in Europe. For example, about 110 species of fish have been registered. Of the seven endemic species of the Danube base, five species live in the territory of Serbia. The total number of mammals, nesting birds, reptiles and amphibians accounts for about 43.3% of the total number of all animal groups in Europe. This condition of Serbia's biodiversity conditions the law governing its protection, preservation and use. This law provides for the establishment and assessment of the situation in nature and the area, the protection of natural resources, the establishment of a system of monitoring of natural values and protected natural resources, the protection of nature and the processing in spatial plans and project documentation, the adoption of a programme of management of natural resources, as well as the development of awareness of the need to protect nature in the process of education and education. I would particularly like to stress that the proposed solutions are in line with the obligations arising from the ratified international agreements in the field of biodiversity protection, namely: the Convention on Biological Variety, the Convention on International Trade and Threatened Species of Wild flora and fauna, the Convention on the Protection of Cultural and Natural Heritage, the Convention on Wetlands which are of international importance, the Convention on the Protection of Migration Species, the Convention on the Protection of European Wild flora and fauna, the Carpathian Convention, as well as the EU Nature Protection Directives. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by adopting a law on noise protection in the environment, we will take another big step towards harmonising the environment system in Serbia with EU standards. This proposal lays down measures to prevent and reduce the adverse effects of noise on human health and the environment. The design of appropriate sublaws establishing the limit values of noise in the environment, acoustic zone of space, the determination of noise interference rates, the method of assessing noise indicators, disturbances and adverse effects of noise in the environment on human health, as well as the methods of measuring noise. Special news in the bill is the creation of strategic noise maps at the level of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, units of local self-government, as well as the creation of action plans in line with EU rules, whose purpose is to set measures to reduce exposure to noise in the environment. In particular, I would like to stress that the introduction of a mechanism that will ensure that the public has access to information on the level of noise that we are exposed to is certainly a major step in public participation in creating a policy of environmental protection. As regards the proposal for a law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, it is proposed to bear in mind that the applicable Fisheries Act does not provide control in the system of using the fish fund as a natural resource. Also, the non-application of the principle of efficiency of sustainable use of renewable resources, inadequate planning of the use of the fish fund and the absence of control and monitoring of the fishing rate poses a risk to the renewable nature of the fish fund by approaching the sustainable use border, which also raises the question of the sustainability of fishing as a matter of activity. Also, when we talk about the fish fund, it must be remembered that it is the most endangered animal group on the planet. Professional estimates of the total number of participants in fishing show that around 300,000 Serbian citizens today directly influence their activities on the fish fund through economic and recreational fishing, as well as through sport activities on fishing waters. The number of fishing authorisations issued in 2008 was only around 100,000, resulting from inadequate regulation in this area and the absence of clear state readiness to promote this type of recreational activity. On the contrary, the state is obliged to protect and advance the biodiversity of its waters. Also, investment in the protection of sustainable use of fish funds in the waters of the Republic of Serbia creates conditions for the development of eco-tourism, as the most prosperous tourism branches in the 21st century. Finally, the draft Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration, taking into account several very specific objectives: removing the shortcomings observed during the application of the applicable Environmental Protection Act, further harmonising with EU rules and the implementation of new EU directives, which in the meantime have been adopted, providing economic instruments, i.e. the means to protect the environment based on the principle of 'polluter pays' and the distribution of funds under this principle and, certainly, one of the most important instruments of the new environmental policy – strengthening criminal policy. With amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, we want to achieve more fully the basic principles on which this law is based, among which I will mention only a few: the principle of prevention and precautionaryness, the principle of conservation of natural values, the principle of sustainable development, the principle of "polluter pays" and "pays user", as well as relying on incentives, with a more complete application of the principle of information and public participation. I would like to point out in particular that the amendment of this law is to bring our legal system into line with a number of directives, regulations and recommendations from the EU, including a directive relating in particular to the control of major industrial disasters involving dangerous substances. Consensus with this Directive will create conditions for building a system and establishing better co-operation and coordination among participants in the risk management system, and technological discipline in the economy will rise to a higher level. A particular emphasis in the bill is placed on implementing preventive measures to prevent chemical accidents, i.e. reducing their impact on people and the environment. The bill envisions the adoption of a national strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources and goods and the national environmental protection programme, which, as strategic documents in the field of environmental protection, is brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The bill introduces a category of areas of special national interest in the field of environmental protection. The government prescribes criteria and determines areas of particular national interest in the field of environmental protection, as well as the level and manner of payment of environmental pollution compensation in these areas. A new membership of the Republic's income and units of local self-government has also been established. The aim of this provision is to ensure that a number of municipalities bordering municipalities whose territory is polluters, payment bonds, which now suffer the consequences of polluting activities, and not making any revenue on that basis, have the right to a certain part of the pollution compensation. Autonomous province's income is also introduced in accordance with the law, with the aim of investing funds through the region's fund at risk of polluting the work of contaminants. The law also lays the basis for the introduction of incentive measures to protect the environment. This also implies establishing the obligations of the Autonomous province and local self-government units to open budget funds for the protection of the environment, as well as ways to finance these funds and use their funds. The autonomous province's obligations, i.e. local self-government, are also foreseen to establish a programme for the use of the budget fund, to which the ministry gives consent to be responsible for environmental affairs. The autonomous province and local self-government units' obligations were also established to deliver a report on the use of funds on the basis of these fees. Regardless of the dissatisfaction of individuals with such acts, this law provides the necessary level of centralisation in money management that will be used to protect the environment due to the large number of problems we have faced in the past through the mechanisms of financing environmental protection by those who have threatened the previous environment. As far as this law is concerned, I would like to say that the Ministry's policy is that new incentive measures must be followed by appropriate sanctions for those who violate our regulations. I have to note that data on the processing reports of the Republic Environmental Protection Inspectorate show that judicial authorities for criminal charges and applications for business offences in connection with violations of environmental rules impose the lowest possible penalties. So far, the highest penalty for a three million dinar economic offense has never been imposed. For this reason, with the agreement of the Ministry of Justice, it is proposed to increase the minimum penalties. The bill also increases some fines up to 15 times, and introduces the possibility of imposing a fine of 20 times the amount of damage done to the economic offense. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to take part in the efforts of the Ministry of Environment to fix the situation in these areas. We, as well as for these previous laws, are fully open to discussing your amendments. I think you have submitted a large number of very useful amendments and that during the debate in particular and we accept them, enriching and strengthening this law to be much more applicable and much better than was proposed by the Ministry. I'd like to invite you to vote for these laws at the end of this presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16953	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, MP Cedomir Jovanovic, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16954	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will try as soon as possible to describe the activities of our committee that followed the proposed laws, to make some impression on behalf of the committee itself, and thus to direct this debate in the direction in which it would have to move if we really wanted, given the time left, to make a significant breakthrough in our society in the area of environmental protection. Once again, as president of the Committee, I publicly express my dissatisfaction over this time that is set aside for such an important issue. We will, in practice, discuss within the framework of the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure a set of six laws, very large. Some of them are adopted for the first time, they are certainly necessary. Big changes are being made. What is very important, this is a topic in which no government, whether we think of this existing or any future, can be effective unless it has social support. Where will we find this social support unless we have found time to promote such important issues, to which do we together have to offer answers? I think it's a good thing we've had more time to discuss these issues within the Committee. Such a privilege results in the conclusion of our committee which describes these laws as the laws needed by our society, as laws that must be improved by the amendments proposed. I am particularly referring to amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Minister Dulic also spoke about this law. I don't think he predicted the fact that there is a big discrepancy between the concept that the government insists on and the concept that local self-government or municipalities in Serbia insist on. That's what we need to talk about during the discussion. I hope that within the Committee we will find an adequate solution and thus meet, above all, the needs of our municipalities, because we do not think that this law can be effectively applied if it depends on one ministry and one government. In any case, MPs and MPs should understand the fact that these laws are a step forward in the process of harmonising our legislation with international standards, with UN recommendations, with EU directives. I think that is why they deserve support, with a lot of room left for mutual agreement on some very important issues, and in the set of these laws that we are now discussing, it is, above all, linked to amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, which amends the established rules on distribution, i.e. redistribution of the funds that are realised through environmental pollution fees or from funds that occur through the definition of environmental protection and improvement procedures. The law enters into force eight days after its publication in the Official Messenger, and the municipality's budgets have been adopted. Those budgets have planned the funds they are denied by the adoption of this law. I think we can discuss this during the discussion itself, but we tried to compromise on the Committee and we got the Ministry's assurance that something like this would be possible. The initiatives we faced were initiatives that not only encouraged local self-government, but from a Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities, which further obligates us to one responsible approach to defining the final solution. Thank you to the representatives of the Ministry who helped us work. We've got a big job ahead of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16955	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Lasslo Varga, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want a word, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic? No, I don't. ) National MPs Vitomir Plužarević, Radiša Ilic, Radica Jocic, Milan Dimitrijevic, Milica Vojić-Marković and Saša Maksimovic have issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, on the issue of the draft law under points 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 14 of the agenda. Do any of them want a word? The word is for Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16956	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, on the Committee on Environmental Protection, I have issued an opinion because I considered that six of these important laws, many of which are systematic, and this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, a bill on air protection, a proposal for a law on environmental protection, a bill on noise protection in the environment, a bill on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund and a proposal for a law on changes and amendments to the Law on the protection of the environment, deserve more attention and the public, and we here in the hall of three minutes and 20 seconds, as many of us who are authorised to have 20 minutes to present these laws can get to talk about one law. So in three minutes I have to talk about the air law, and I really think that each of us can talk about it very much, not three minutes, anyway. On the other hand, the law on noise protection is something we face in real life; citizens most often, when they ask for our help, ask for help in some real things. The noise is one of them. We're talking about it now for three minutes and 20 seconds, and those people who show up here to talk about this law alone will be able to say maybe a little bit more. So our main grudge, both as MP groups and my own, is an extremely short period of time for such important laws. We have hardly welcomed a session where we can talk about these topics, because these are laws that need to shape the future as much as other laws in other areas, and they are given due and necessary attention, because we can talk individually about laws. There's something going on here that the kids used to say -- they never add up their grandmothers and frogs. In parliament, we allowed one who put together the agenda to gather the grandmothers and frogs and get this conglomerate, which can only be found in the Serbian parliament in this way. In all parliaments in the world, these laws are being discussed and how long, individually, and each of the MPs has the right to say what they think. So this is my main observation and I ask you not to unite the future debate on laws in the field of nature protection in this way. Furthermore, I repeat what I said yesterday as my grudge, the change in the attitude of ecology can only happen when a picture is seen of these laws being debated, that people realize that what we're talking about yesterday, and today and Monday is not just some legal matter that has nothing to do with their real lives, impoverished and tormented, but something about their health, the health of their children, the health of their environment. I said yesterday how important it was for Parliament to talk about it. And in addition to that, I'm going to show you, let's say, it's just the result of what we said yesterday -- I got four letters, different letters, where people complain that the inspections came, found that there was a problem and they never showed up again. Do you know how important it is to have citizens who will talk about these problems and who will co-operate with parliament? You obviously don't care about that. Let's break those laws, let's pack them in one bag, mumble it up and talk about it for three minutes and get out of here. Someone might be really bored when we talk about these laws. There are us here in parliament who are not bored, because we think that every law is very important that we talk about it. As someone who has spent his whole life in favour of the field of environmentalism, I find it humiliating for all those in this country who care about the area and want to live in a healthy environment, to leave it healthy for their children, to talk about it in this way in the Serbian Parliament. One more thing that's so important... There are a lot of grudges on these laws ahead of us, and I really don't know how to talk together about all these laws. The DSS Group has made a lot of amendments to all these laws and we will discuss it in an individual debate. What's really characteristic of everything is that the bill promoter actually seized funds from local environments, local self-governments, which are thus placed in a position to no longer have the means to worry about protecting the environment, some small, micro-local, everything flows into one fund... (President: You are out of time, Mrs. Vojić-Markovic. Let me just finish my sentence. So much for decentralisation, which you fantasize when you talk about how pro-European-oriented you are, and when in practice you have to apply it – none of it. Another contribution to how important it is that we speak in this way are thousands of letters, even city conferences, to help them do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16957	The word is Mr. Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I will refer to two of the six laws that are joined in this debate, solely because of the time I have at my disposal, and I believe that the other laws will explain my colleagues from the SNS in their presentations. At the meeting of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, I have singled out my opinion on the laws in the field of ecology for several reasons, and these are some of the reasons why the SNS, or the Prosperity Group, Serbia's Tomislav Nikolic cannot still vote, despite the goodwill and desire to introduce legislation in this area, for laws in this form. We are aware that much of the laws necessary for EU accession in the field of environmental protection, but it is unacceptable to establish such a number of agencies. This has resulted in an increase in the number of employees in the state administration and will burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of what you say is not so. The Serbian Progressive Party will potentiate a reduction in the number of ministries, a reduction in the number of agencies, and not their establishment, because in order to maintain this size of administration, with a planned increase through newly established agencies, you have no way of funding from the budget, except through further increases in the burdens of citizens. There are also very good basics in the proposed legislative solutions, which should be adorned by modern European environmental solutions, but there are also bad solutions, such as those already mentioned agencies, as well as a solution to the law on changes and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, which is being introduced from environmental taxis in a larger proportion to local self-government on the republican budget. So, since decentralisation, nothing is relevant to citizens or local self-government, it's only important that you charge your budget so that you can set up all those agencies. We have submitted a large number of amendments to this; among other things, I have submitted the amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, to the point concerning this, but to that after. There are other problems, which are not based on the proposed laws as much as on disrespect or selective respect for existing laws by the Democratic Party. One of the most obvious examples of the selectivity of law enforcement and criminal policy is certainly pollution of the Tisa River of 31. 8. In 2007, and shortly before, there were several developments, in the part of the flow from Sainta to Novi Bece, by the Senta sugar factory "TE-TO", whose leaders are from the Democratic Party. The rapid reaction of the then Ministry of Environmental Protection singled out, i.e. the Ministry of Environmental Protection has singled out two million dinars for the watering of the Tisa River, all in order, even though it was not their jurisdiction, to lay down the dust. I will refer briefly, due to time, and to the law on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, and from a series of desperate solutions, I will single out the worst. Article 4 reiterates the difference between the AP Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia, which integrates political solutions and individual policies in a law that cannot have a political background. Furthermore, Article 41, which defines the exam that sports fishermen have to pass, says point 2: "A person under the age of 16, or over 65, as well as persons with an exam for a fisherman or a fisherman, are entitled to a license for recreational fishing without passing the fishing exams for a fisherman. "The basic question is – what should this fishing exam look like in the first place? You're going to ask people who have been fishing for 30 years what a fish looks like and probably how to draw a worm on a hook, because I don't know what else it's supposed to be. What bothers me in this law is how people who are 63 or 64 years old and over the last 50 years have been fishing to get them to take that pointless exam to prove that after 50 years of fishing they know how to fish. Finally, the most senseless member of this law is a member of 44, whose position 1 states: "The fisherman is obliged to keep track records." And point 3: "A user cannot issue a licence for the current year to a fisherman who has not submitted the catch records for the previous year. "First of all, these fishermen are engaged in recreation rather than being administrative workers of the ministry. (President: Time. ) Since I don’t have any more time, in short I’ll just take the data I downloaded from the Web site of the Vojvodina Sports Fishing Association. So, like this, clean data: the annual sale of licences for sport fishing is 30,000, the number of possible water outputs is 365 days, the real average is 50 days of fishing, the number of fish species in our fishing waters is 43, a realistic five species of fish per day, the number of fish caught is the question mark, the real estimate of ten fish per day, the weight of each caught fish; when you multiply it, you get a figure of 750,000 information that the Ministry or someone has to process, and it simply can't do without increasing the state administration. After all, you can't even check the data. For these reasons, I could not vote in favour of the proposed laws, but you have a way of improving the laws by accepting amendments by the Parliamentary Groups Forward Serbia - Tomislav Nikolic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16959	Thank you, Mr Maximovic. The word has Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16960	Madam President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have issued an opinion on this set of laws, but I will limit my discussion to the noise law. On two examples, I will show that not enough people who deal with such serious laws are committed properly to the law, that is, certain provisions of these laws are complete nonsense. Before that, I would certainly like to point out the matter already mentioned here by the president of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and other fellow Members, which is not enough to discuss and discuss such laws in a valid manner in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. That's a serious problem. It can't be at one point in the agenda of six laws, and to talk about each law for two or three minutes, it's absurd. You can't say anything for those two or three minutes about the law. Not to mention the amendments, where time is limited to two minutes. Since I said I was going to talk about the noise law, I'm going to read two members of this bill, so you're going to see how much that's practically nonsense. So, Article 18. Article 18 speaks of the fact that public gatherings, entertainment and sports events and other outdoor and indoor activities are required to provide information on noise protection measures in the application for public meetings and activities if the use of sound and other devices can exceed the prescribed limit values. So now take an example of one stadium and one football game. How are you going to limit the use of sound cheerleading props? How are you going to tell him to blow in the trumpet with half his mouth, half his strength, or not to blow at all, that when he detests the judge's decision, he says it with half his voice or with a full voice? Who's going to estimate that amount of noise? And that noise level is determined by the local self-government unit. What if, for example, the Sava Venac municipality, on whose territory are two stadiums, Stara and Partizan, prescribes one level of noise that is maximumly permitted, and, say, at the stadium of OFK Belgrade in Karaburma, the Palilula municipality prescribes another? How can such things be regulated in the first place, and how can such an attitude be written in such a law? The other thing is that you predict that local self-government units, as far as this law is concerned, finance certain activities regarding data updates, level assessment and noise quality. Question for you, Mr. Minister: do you know what position local self-government units are in? Do you know how many transfer funds local self-government units are getting at the moment? How do you intend to charge them with that obligation to form professional services, to hire new people, and the funds are as you, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have assigned them? What about the fact that this government has 27 ministries, which has over 200 state secretaries, assistant ministers? Who knows how many state agencies? You think this government is cheap? So you're going to charge the local self-government units to get along on their own? In fact, you're sending a completely opposite message. In fact, you want this law not to apply at all. It's the purpose of the law written like this. So anyone who deals with writing the law must take care of one thing, which is – whether the law is applicable or not. In these circumstances, the kind of law we are in today is completely inadmissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16961	Thank you. Among the representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups, Mr Micunovic first called. Here you go, Mr. Micunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16962	Madam President, honourable MPs, our debate today runs in a different tone, very constructive, calmly, with arguments. For that, there are several reasons, but I'll name only one, and that's what we're discussing about one general, universal subject, that goes beyond the interests of certain parties, I'd even say nation, class, I'd say it concerns the entire human race, but even more than that, these are laws concerning both plants and animals, the cosmos, there are no more general laws than these. Of course, we can immediately notice that this debate, so important to mankind, comes to us somehow with a delay. We have to ask ourselves why. Environmental movements in the world and in Europe have been a tradition for decades, even some parties, green, have come out of it. But the ecological movement was strong. Except for a few books of individual philosophers, and here I would point out the book of Rudy Supek, and some attempts by the NGO that Professor Pavlovic is running, we did not have any stronger intellectual or political movement that would deal with environmental issues. Of course, not everyone comes to us from the world and Europe, here comes something good. Among these are the standards that are such that we must respect them, for they concern all. So we're dealing with something about the human race as such. This is where we meet looking for answers as to why it was so late for us. I'm always ready to be proud of our tradition and everything that belongs to the size of our nation, but it seems to me that that kind of patriotism includes being aware of certain flaws or shortcomings. The people who have the saying, "The smell doesn't get sick, but it doesn't get sick," so obviously, it shows great intimacy with dirt. With that, we can, in any case, face any road to go around any house to look at; in Belgrade, we have people throwing garbage bags from the fourth floor. It's obvious that there's one deeper misunderstanding of what environmentals are and what purity is. It's been a long time since we've had a discussion about what's-his-name. The toilet question. I don't give a god to someone at a train station or a bus stop to approach a bathroom. It is obvious that there was something missing – it is, on the one hand, consciousness, and I would say, on the other hand, the order of that, or punishment. So now we have a chance to talk about it in a legitimate way. All that's in front of us and what we talked about yesterday and today, and what we're going to talk about could be in one word, so let me also use a Latin term, call it - homo versus nature, man according to nature. So we are divided into classes, races, parties, etc., but there is something that still makes us a community of the human race. These things are currently being dealt with by environmental laws. I would refer only to a few aspects of environmental laws, not so much to everything that is a professional, direct problem, which experts, chemists, physicists, biologists discuss. I'd start with something called human rights and remind you that environmental rights fall into the so-called so-called. The third basket of human rights. They're the latest in this human rights nomenclature, but by universality, they're bigger. A man has the right to clean air and clean water and to the nature he will enjoy. This is an extended right, which has not, in any way, been consummated or spoken of in so far's history. There were always people who loved nature and considered it their own. There were more in ancient cinemas, hundreds, and many others, and later Toro and others, who went from civilization disgusted by what people do to nature, trying to tend there. However, mankind has developed in contradictory circumstances. On the one hand, we owe industry, technology a civilizational development, but nothing so destroyed nature as industry. Industry has gone relentlessly into the devastation of nature in various ways, polluting water, air, destroying plants, destroying flora, everything it has come to. So this civilization therefore owes nature now and what it has done for its development has made nature suffer in some way to bring it back to her now. There was an entire philosophy of rationalism in which nature was considered either an object or an enemy. So man referred to nature, from the earliest times, when he cut down all the forests to have deserts, to what they looked like or looked like industrial cities. As far as we're concerned, unfortunately, we've been following this very rough industrialization and nature development. Right now, we're not the only ones and we're not the worst. Some great countries have done an awful lot of evil precisely in nature and are doing it today and therefore do not sign agreements, or Kyoto, or many others about various weapons that pollute nature. Obviously, there is still one attempt to transfer it either to everything or in some way they tend to, like real contaminants. Large corporations in the world today are the main enemies of nature. They not only have their greed for profit led to the global crisis that we are in, but they are in some way preventing humanity from entering its normal frameworks in which man will naturally feel. Of course, there's another problem, and we don't need to lose sight of it. Although environmental laws have a universal character, and when atomic fuel leaks somewhere, when some Chernobyl or anything appears, then there's a general panic, and of course it concerns everyone and then that air, which we all breathe, creates some kind of uniform danger, but in some other circumstances it's not the case. Poverty is in some ways not completely protected by environmentalism. In unsanitary settlements, where air dirt is caused by exhaust gasses, mostly living poverty, while the rich are a little outside, in exclusive resorts with clean air, therefore, there is also an attempt to preserve class advantage, to preserve the difference between the rich and the poor. But universal environmental laws don't tolerate it, it turns out that the air sometimes takes the winds where they wouldn't want to find it. This aspect is social, but there is also that health, which many MPs spoke of very nicely this morning, from different parties. With great attention, I listened to them, and I hope that the representatives of the ministry did, and that many ideas, whether through various forms of amendments or what they heard, would be able to be incorporated into the improvement of these laws. There's no vanity here, anyone who contributes in the best way or draws attention to the fact that we missed something, is welcome. That makes the quality of these sessions the last two days. Of course, this problem for us is related to one more. We're not going to do anything unless it becomes one united movement of different measures, so not only the legal regulations, which are necessary, of course, not only the penalties, which are also necessary, need education. It is one awareness that man is not alone in this world and that he should also think about what is public good and about others. I saw on TV one action of a school: children came, they gave them some gloves to clean up that garbage dump, a dump that someone made near school; there are car tires and stuff. A little girl pushes some kind of tire, she can't get it, and they ask her what she's doing, and she says, "Well, we're cleaning around our yard, so it's nice, and we hope that when our parents see us struggling to clean this up, they won't throw it away." There is no greater reproach for parents, but if children understand that this should not be done. So education is general. Not only that, let's look at our media, what they're doing. Will someone talk tomorrow about what we've been discussing here for two days? He won't. If there's a bizarre statement or an incident, with pleasure, but it won't follow this paper. The media must be involved in general education to repair the environmental situation, otherwise we will fail. Whoever came to Vrbas and saw what the channel looked like, he had to be terrified. There you can use a knife to cut down the terrible waste, the dirt that evaporates and pollutes the air, the water and everything around. Who has the right to keep it, to observe it and to keep it that way? No one, no government, no provinces, no municipalities, no people who care about everyone else's health. A variety of health institutions and other institutions must join together to clean it up. We can't do that dirt, no matter how much she doesn't bother us, we can last a long time. It's not just a question of mockery, it's a question of our environmental survival. We have another phenomenon. We've been watching this fishbath, we've been talking about water here today and so on.; there were some penalties, someone was found, someone was not found. I haven't seen it through to the end, about some affairs, every day you have that someone dropped water in a stream, in a river and polluted, killed the fish, made the water unusable. He must be stamped. It can't be allowed to run away from the director of a public company. If the company is found to have done so, the director of the company must not be any more than one hour head of the company. It's the attitude of society, how it must defend itself. He's not here right now - if we're going to punish him with three million. If he is the director of our nature, he will easily replace those three million, but he must no longer remain with such a sense of irresponsibility, he must no longer be. That's why I welcome these measures proposed by the ministry and this legal tightening in some way, as well as another law being prepared, which will also severely punish other types of hanged people, those in traffic. If we still manage to poison them with tobacco and alcohol, we also tax, there are solutions, at least some, or the mitigation of budgetary problems. If the government is already ashamed to introduce some progressive taxes or not, I don't know, I don't, then here's one means to protect the common good, to protect people, to protect their lives, to punish those who threaten them with any environmental offenses, whether in traffic, or in a way that poisons them. I think all of this requires a longer fight, which must involve everyone, and the stamping of dirt. You can't go through our roads anymore, the roads are slowly starting to narrow down – that's all I saw when I was in Tirana, halftime eating garbage bags. If that is the case, it speaks not only of ecological negligence or dirt, it speaks of something else – that there is no serious rule of law, there is no respect for regulations. I know people don't like it. I once read in Russia a headline in the paper: "The Russian man is sick of obeying the law." That goes for us, too. We need to begin to understand that respecting the law means obeying the general rule that applies to all people. That is why I call on all MPs, regardless of the differences we have in many ways, and even in looking at this law, to try to fix it with amendments, and to adopt this law with the greatest possible majority, because it is the best message we can send to our fellow citizens, our society and our offspring, that they will still live in a more decent, cleaner, healthier environment. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16963	Mr Cedomir Jovanovic appeared as a representative of the LDP parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16964	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this debate makes sense if we continue it in the spirit of Mr. Micunovic's discussion, given that we do not have much time left for a precise analysis of these laws. This is what we need to talk about today, knowingly criticising the majority who agreed to such a thing, because it directly denied with its relationship the previous initiative aimed at raising awareness of the importance of environmental protection, imposing an important social issue and focusing on social attention and defining answers, which we will first accept and only then apply. What each of us knows is that we live in a country where life is very little appreciated, so what would that country appreciate the environment when it doesn't appreciate life itself first? Are we gonna get somewhere by following those rules? No, we won't. How are we going to change these rules if we don't talk about them here in Parliament and our different relationship to inherited rules? By changing our relationship to very serious problems in society, we need to show the citizens that this is the way they need to go. An individual cannot change the defeating position that the theme of the environment has in the community at the moment. Why is that? Because before the environment many other questions were on our agenda. So today we are running through parliament discussing the law on changes and additions to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, air protection laws, nature protection, noise protection, environmental protection. The moment we do this, we do not mean the Back Channel, Bor, Panchevo, another 230 black spots on Serbia's ecological map, unless another one is added in the meantime. And Smederevo, Mr. Shormaz, not to mention, is going to be offended by someone we skipped, and Shabac, and Kruševac, you see how many of us there are, Koserić, Beocin, how many of us are interested in solving this problem. I am glad that I am the chairman of a committee that has the willingness to discuss and agree on these issues and that, despite the great political differences between us, we have managed to find a common path. I think that's what we should try to do here in Parliament with the Ministry. When we look at this ministry's budget, then we'll see that Minister Dulic is with his men a general without an army. In what part of the world does poor societies effectively respond to environmental problems? Not at all. Is our society poor today? Yes, it is. We're materially poor. So let's compensate it for the greater attention we're going to give, let's say, the interests of our municipalities, the interests of local self-government. On the one hand, we are burdening this local self-government with additional obligations and I don't think the municipal authorities have any reason to be angry about it. Rights and obligations, that's what local self-government needs. On the other hand, we deny them economic instruments that they will respond to. Is this what the Ministry is doing because it wants to be consecrated to the municipalities? No, but for two reasons: because of the lack of sufficient resources and because very often municipalities used irresponsible funds that they collected using the legal basis available to them. Why has local self-government been so irresponsible in the past, allowing all these years to create the problems that we are solving today? The Committee's session was held in Pancheva. You can't solve a problem that's been real for 30 years with one initiative. That's where the state did a lot. Is that enough? It's not. Can we say that today we are satisfied with what was done in the meantime? We can say that the way is done, but we don't have the right to pleasure as long as the people who live in Panchev live in the gas chamber. It's the same case with Bora and the people that each of you is old enough to represent here, among other things, such vital interests as interests that follow the needs of a man to live in a healthy environment. How are we going to reconcile those two extremes? It is necessary for the Ministry to provide funds and to seriousise local self-government. On the other hand, how we will enable these municipalities and our representatives in the municipalities to show that they are different, more responsible and more capable, if we also deny them the miserable means that they could come under existing laws. It's a subject that we need to discuss more, both here and at the Committee's session. The Liberal Democratic Party will support these laws because they are a step forward. But we are afraid that this will be an ad hoc initiative, that the topic of the environment will again return to the frameworks of the ministry, agencies, some secretariats at the level of local self-government or the province, and that it will remain far from the citizens, without which it can definitely not be changed concept and lifestyle in Serbia itself. Since we poisoned each other so much, we started poisoning the world that we leave to our children and we have to think about it now and see how we get out of it. I appeal to you, Minister, to show us the ability to perform, as a man who runs the Ministry of Ecology, both the Ministry and us out of the problem we have found ourselves in, because we cannot support a member of the law that changes the established rules of distribution anyway a little money that is being obtained. So far, it's been a rule that out of the money paid for by environmental pollution, 40% goes to the state and 60% to the municipality. Now this relationship changes: 60% of the state and 40% of the municipality. We don't have the opportunity to influence the state and the way it's going to spend that money. Maybe it'll be more effective in that, then. In some societies that are so comfortable and irresponsible to their obligations, some instruments may need to be centralized. We need a plan, a clear bill, facts, and then we'll all get into this big business together. We're talking about the problem of forming some new regulatory bodies. She's needed. There is no criticism that these laws will lead to an increase in the state administration. I think these laws can lead to the professionalization of the state administration. We need to see how that happens as soon as possible. We can't bring everything down to the level of the ministry, where the minister and I will be leaving all the furniture. It is true that these laws have been infested with congregation drawers for several years. We, along with the Ministry's team, have done much to make sure that they find themselves before the MPs. Let them finally adopt in one efficient way, but the speed that follows it must not be the speed in which we will not detect mistakes and remove them, and there are. That's what I want to talk about. As far as the proposal of the Nature Protection Act is concerned, our support for this law is absolute. We're asking to extend a deadline within which authorized persons have the right to report an incident. The law found that it was an eight-day deadline. It seems a pointless situation in which someone comes forward after 15 days and then they tell him – you're late. We ask that this deadline be raised up to 30 days and that we leave the possibility of it working afterwards, and that whoever does this job will not be threatened by the fact that he is left with some deadline in which, with scarce resources, clearly cannot do his job effectively. We think it needs to be changed. As for the law on amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act, we, ministers, are against your proposed solution. I think it's out of the fact that we have no understanding for him that the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities shows no understanding of such a solution and that this is also the case with self-government across Serbia. Finally, this is where the representatives of these municipalities sit. We must return things to the beginning and see, if the money was spent irresponsiblely, and obviously it was, because there would be no harm in Serbia that that money was spent the way it had to be spent, why someone didn't answer. So we need to define mechanisms that will determine the responsibility and prevent these mistakes from happening again in the future and to establish strong co-operation between the municipality, the province and the Republic, and not to transfer money to the Republic, and then leave the crowded people in the municipalities, who are not in a position to do what they have to do, as the level of government that is closest to the citizens, to act effectively. That's our common problem. We propose to retain existing relations and from the money collected in the municipality's territory that 60% of the money remains in the municipality, and 40% goes to the Republic. On the territory of the province: 60% of municipalities, 20% of provinces, 20% of republics. Let's see if there are mechanisms to further strengthen the pressure on local self-government to spend that money properly. We do not think it is possible from one ministry, with all due respect, to do the job instead of 150 municipalities that exist in Serbia, which are obliged to do the job together with the ministry. Since budgets have already been made, they were adopted at the end of December, we will now leave half the year (as the law enters into force eight days from the day of publication) of the municipality without the planned funds, and this is a big problem for Pančevo too, and for Bor, Vrbas, Kosjerić, Obrenovac, especially in the situation in which the country is located. By discussing these laws, we have analyzed how much they will cost this country. We have come up with data that, for example, the level of EPS investment, in order to achieve international standards in the field of environmental protection, is about half a billion euros. Half a billion euros should be invested in systems that will raise the level of the environmental protection regime. That's what we should think about when we adopt laws. On the other hand, we're facing anomalies now. We pointed to them – the NIS privatisation agreement, the clause by which new owners, regardless of what we are adopting now, can continue to work and behave in accordance with the old laws. We have a problem with double standards here. We're going to charge EPS with half a billion and ask them to absolutely comply with the law, and on the other hand, leave NIS behind old laws that weren't effective enough, because there wouldn't be any problems that we're facing right now if they were effective. It's a topic for a joint conversation. Look at Petrochemia, a major contaminant, not because people who do it want to do it to Pancheva, but it's a big contaminant, about 80 million is now invested in raising the level of protection in Petrochemy itself, but Petrochemy is in a big problem today. She's shutting down. She's been on NIS subsidies so far, and NIS was a state-owned company. Will the new owners have an understanding of something like that? By closing the facility itself, this problem will not be solved, only to be stopped at the level at which it is now. That's what we need to talk about. What is it that we will try to do within the Committee? Another round of consultations, because more or less all parliamentary groups are equally unsatisfactory about changing this relationship when it comes to economic instruments that protect the environment, and to do so together with the Chamber of Commerce and with the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, without then presenting it here as a victory over the Ministry, but as a joint effort that leads us to a compromise solution. Then we need to see how we change those rules that exist in every government when it comes to pensions, health care, layoffs. Don't even think about the costs that follow environmental protection, let alone fight for them. What is the point in a country where we try to change something, if we know that we have doomed ourselves to the doom of the time ahead? We assume great obligations to these laws, and, among other things, our obligation to make them effective and applicable. The ministry needs to adopt a whole series of sublegal acts and only then will they be able to be realised, and when done and defined by a completely legal concept, then we are the ones who should respect this legal concept. Why should we respect the Law on the Protection of the Environment, if we do not respect the Law on Privatisation, if we do not respect the Constitution, if we do not respect the Criminal Code, if we do not respect each other? Then comes the expression of what Professor Micunovic said by comparing our mutual relations and the situation in society with the picture we produced, which is so chaotic in the area of environmental protection. We will try to help the government by upholding the laws and by doing everything on the Committee, above all, to adopt these amendments. People who worked on these laws deserve great respect because they worked on those laws in a country where no one thought about it at that time. They're incredibly dedicated people. We have been on committees, preparing for this debate, spending hours and hours talking to them, we have received all the necessary information and I am sorry that this great effort is not now seen in this debate, regardless of whether the laws that remain for us, as a law on biocidal products, which is less or more interested in anyone in this hall, or about these laws that we are now talking about, which are epochal and indeed in a new way, in a completely different way, building concepts of environmental protection in Serbia. We have a great obligation before us to close the discussion of these laws and not close the book on the story of the protection of the environment. This must be a topic, in a different way than it is most often a topic in Serbia, through cartoon comparisons when we think of sustainable development, waste as a source and new potential for our economy, or the light bulbs we need to change to make the crisis in Serbia easier. The LDP's contribution so far has not been controversial and will not be in the future, and with the support that will follow these laws we will be active and outside the Assembly. I hope you will provide support and the work of the board itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16965	The word has a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, environment and spatial planning minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16966	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr Jovanovic, I give you the gratitude of people who really worked day and night to make these laws and who will work and invest more effort in the future than their job and position requires, believing in the environment, living with the environmental problem. So, I thank you on their behalf for those nice words and I really think they deserve a lot of respect from all of us. All I wanted was for this debate of the heads of parliament to help the debate to go in the right direction, because some of the topics that are true are repeatedly repeated, but in the meantime, as a result of the discussions that the ministry has led with individual MPs, there have been some changes. I wanted to tell you that it was justified to comment on many MPs who pointed to the problem of defining the examinations for fishermen in the law on the sustainable development of the fish fund. We have spoken to a gentleman from the New Serbia Parliament Club, we have talked to other MPs and during the debate on amendments we will accept an amendment that will in a different way define the obligation of fishermen to be educated, the obligation of associations that will deal with the conservation of fish areas to carry out education, to implement the programme that the Ministry will propose, but there will be no obligation for these people to take the exam. It's something that's a valid remark that you've pointed to and adopted. I wanted to say a few words about the objections that exist about the general adoption, i.e. the establishment of agencies by these laws. These laws will set up a few agencies and these laws we shut down a few agencies, specifically one big one. You need to know that by establishing new agencies, we haven't struck the budget. The chemical agency, which today does not exist, and will exist after the adoption of these laws, will take over 14 people working at the Ministry of Chemical Affairs today. It will be financed entirely from its own revenues, which means that the Republic of Serbia's budget will have 14 salaries less than the moment the chemical agency is formed. Similarly, by optimising the ministry's work, other agencies formed by these laws will be formed. We have abolished these laws, for example, the recycling agency that has existed so far, so that we too worry about keeping budget money and worry in some way in this crisis, and not only in this crisis, but essentially in optimising the work of a complete Serbian administration we are not exaggerating. What we have been applying when it comes to the establishment of agencies is the clean implementation of European directives that provide for the formation of independent regulatory bodies for such important areas, and chemical management is certainly an important area. As for the noise debate, there was, I'd say, some kind of explanation of how the noise law should be implemented in life. Of course there are transitional periods until all those who represent the sources of noise will have to adapt to this law. It's one of the laws that, above all, needs to regulate the impact of noise on health and the environment and protect our citizens, people from noise. It is not true, for example, that people in stadiums will have to whistle more quietly because we are passing this law and, please, don't caricate in such a way that it serves to protect people from the noise that occurs in industrial plants, production plants, in traffic, on highways, along highways. For example, this law will oblige those who build highways to build protective fences so that noise does not interfere with people who live along these highways. So that's what this law is for, not to make cartoons out of noise that comes from places where it usually comes from. After all, if this noise is found to be stronger than what the sublegal acts that go along with this law define, these people will be obliged to install protective mechanisms and protect the environment, for example, that stadium from noise. It'll be their duty. What's the problem? We protect people who can't live when, for example, there's a event going on in some stadium. So everything we do to protect our people, we don't do it from the whim, we don't do it because we like it. It's something that may be called the introduction of order, and I think that everyone here, regardless of the party differences, we will, for God's sake, introduce order. Speaking of introducing order, I have to tell you a problem that we also talked about at Mr. Jovanovic's Committee on Environmental Protection, which is permanent. We, as the Ministry, have tried to bring certain measures. So when we talk about whether anyone was ever punished for environmental pollution, I said in the opening statement that the most severe, or the most rigorous punishment was never prescribed. This is about that very often the judicial system has no hearing about this kind of violation of the law, as far as the environment is concerned. We complained about it for a while, and we pointed out that the Helios problem wouldn't have turned into such a dramatic problem, and probably our citizens wouldn't have known about it, if the court had acted on reports filed by our environmental inspection in 2007. If people reacted in time, thousands of different polluting objects would not be found in our environment. We have introduced a system that is new and that is welcomed from all sides. In order not only to complain about the judicial system, we have organised education and a very serious series of talks with judges, prosecutors, and soon we will both in courts and in prosecutorial organisations and, most importantly, at the Ministry of the Interior we have specialized people who will deal with the only environmental problem and who will receive cases whenever any of these laws are broken so that they can act on them, and there have been different educations. In the end, let me just say one thing that will certainly be the most important thing, and that is the question of redistributing this local fund. I said it was our position, and this is really the result of this promoted new environmental policy, that we need to start caring about the environment in Serbia as a single integrated system. We can't fragment and atomize the environment of every municipality in person and we can't let something happen that's unfortunately happened to today. We have done a report in the last seven months on how environmental funds have been spent in local self-government, and we have come to the realization that 30% of the money collected by the principle of "paying polluter", therefore, from the industry that directly polluted the environment, did not end up in projects that need to improve the situation in this environment, but rather for financing sports clubs, representations, functioning of local self-government, all of those things that may be important for the life of local self-government, but certainly not important for one environment. We didn't say for a moment that we wanted to take the money from the municipalities. The municipality will have two obligations under this law. The first obligation is to form a budgetary position, which will be a fund position, and it will have to have a very clear programme and a work plan, and on this plan the ministry will give consent; it will also have to submit a report to the ministry to each dinar as the money is spent. Also, municipalities will have the opportunity to introduce their own local tax that will be an integral part of that fund. The way these funds will be spent will, of course, be integrated with the work plan, but 100% of these revenues will go to the municipality. On the other hand, we have accepted the amendment of one of the MPs, I think it is MP Nikolic from Pančev, that for municipalities that are under the municipality institute with a special degree of environmental threat, it is possible to charge some other kinds of taxis from pollutants for transporting matter through that municipality, or by kilogram, or tons of products of certain matter that pass through processes of production that pollute the environment. So through this law we will succeed, on the one hand, to centralize in some way the processes of making decisions where money will be spent, and on the other hand, to form local funds that will be spent exclusively for environmental purposes. Most importantly, those municipalities that are really threatened by different types of industrial activities will be able to have a special source of income from which they can additionally finance these things. I have to tell you that the environmental fund is not our fund, and local funds are your funds. I must say, that was also our argument when we had talks with the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, the Environmental Protection Fund at the moment most of its couples are spending on rehabilitating and recirculating municipal dumps that exist in the municipalities. So he spends money on projects that are complete, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, competent local self-government. The Environment Fund also has a much better view when it raises funds where funds can be spent when there are projects concerning polluters, which may be on the territory of a municipality, but essentially polluting the environment in the territory of more municipalities. So far, it has happened, for example, that a polluter is located on the eighth km of the river, that the river has 40 km and passes through five municipalities, and that it benefits from a fund charged on the basis of pollution, the river has only a municipality on whose territory the polluter is located. The other four municipalities through which the river passes, which surely suffer from pollution, could in no way compensate for the effects of this pollution, or invest in programmes that would potentially improve the fish stock or environmental status of the river. So this is how we want to correct this injustice and, in some ways, to centralize, or regionalise, the fund and the decision-making process regarding the fund to correct this situation. These are just some of the answers. I hope we can focus the debate that way. I know it's a big problem when it comes to redistributing funds. So this isn't about classical centralization. Local self-government will still have the opportunity to charge and fill their local funds in a very powerful way, to implement environmental programmes and processes. In the opening statement, I said that this is the necessary degree of centralisation of the decision-making process because the environment does not know the municipalities, environmental pollution does not know the administrative boundaries of municipalities. It's something that's regional or universal, and that's how we have to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16967	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. You have five minutes from the time for the president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16968	Mrs. Comic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we have a problem with this approach, Mr. Dulic. If a local self-government wastes funds, that local self-government must be responsible for such behaviour. She can be punished. It can be completely deprived of funds from that local fund and transferred to your ministry, but not all local self-government did. Be careful what kind of mistake we can all make together now: since they've had 60% of the local fund so far and spent non-purpose funds, we'll leave them 40% to keep spending. If we left all the funds to local self-government, it wouldn't be enough for the problems local self-government has. Your examples are true, the river, the contaminant, the first municipality, all the others who also suffer and have no material compensation for such a thing, but let's say then how this problem is solved. If it's a river-stream bill, then let's say it goes into the central register, and it's going to be distributed from that central register by compensating the damage that every local self-government suffers. This way, we punish those who do their job well, centralize resources, and the essence of environmental protection is to think globally and act locally. That's our problem, especially in this situation we're in right now. We have two anomalies. The first is that the local self-governments that have done so far will be able to continue to do so, truthfully, with less resources. Another problem is that practically through the possibility of defining the local tax, which is independent of the one we're talking about right now, more burdens the economy. Now all municipalities that have been denied under this economic instrument will charge local taxes and knock on the door of those who are polluters, so they will be taken not 100%, but 120%, because local self-government will seek lost funds in the same address the Republic is looking for. And there's people in these companies who need to get paid. Remember the example in Književec a year ago, when the irresponsible owner polluted Beli Drim, and after that, the factory was closed, so people were out of work. What happens if we let something like that happen? I think we need more precise work, and there is no dilemma that we agree with the idea of introducing order, above all, in collecting and spending funds in a country that is burdened with problems like Serbia. This is not how it's gonna be done. Those who have done bad will continue to work badly, there will be a narrow space, but they will continue to spend pointless money, and those who have done good will be punished, and the economy will be further burdened because, of course, other self-governments through the concept of a new tax that stands as an opportunity to charge them what they are unable to get from the state, which, by new distribution and redistribution of funds, has changed these relations. This is our common problem, and all these problems you're talking about, of course, by pointing to anomalies, deserve great attention and we have to define good answers to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16969	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16970	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have yet to see another set of environmental laws very important not only for today, but first of all for tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and for future generations. It is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, which is very important because the deadlines that are relevant for what investments, projects and plans are, the proposal for a Law on Air Protection, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Nature, the Proposal for a Law on noise protection in the environment, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Fish Fund and the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which is very important and is the basis of everything in this area. On behalf of the SPS-JS parliamentary group, I will present certain aspects concerning this issue, with a critical approach and the drive to improve this matter, i.e. regulation. Either way, we'll back these laws. They are very important to Serbia, for essential reasons. The questions that come down to the preservation of nature, the healthy environment, the natural values are, in fact, the basic assumption of the perspective of life on earth as a kind of phenomenon that exists on our planet Earth, and the unknown is whether in some universe spaces there exists in such a form and biodiversity. Certainly, the legislation of this issue in Serbia is not at an envious level and the need to bring the international community into line with legal legislation, and above all the EU. We often say that our natural beauty is unrepeated, that our regions are nicer than the areas of many countries, that the same historical, cultural, religious and other content, such as the production of healthy food, cannot be used for ourselves, nor as a quality offer for Europe and the world. Indeed, across our country it can be seen that there is negligence and devastation - waste at every step, wild dumps, filter plants that do not work or do not exist, warehouse safety and standards for protection against dangerous technologies etc. It seems that for a very long time we must swim towards a clean haven of a healthy environment. These issues are current with different aspects in other countries in the international community, and it is far from true that all of this is being solved in the best possible way. Of course, all of this is not for our comfort. So, the fact is that biodiversity, i.e. biodiversity, has been threatened, either by the intentional or by purpose of man. In nature, there is a perfect harmony that defines itself as a biological balance in the broadest sense of the word, and in fact it implies ecological balance, genetic balance, which together with abiogenic factors contributes to the relative climate balance or climate stability on earth. Unfortunately, civilization development has since its earliest beginnings gone in the direction of disrupting natural harmony and balance in nature. It seems that the trend of civilization's progress is in reverse with the increasing collapse and degradation of the quality of natural values, starting with the accidental introduction of allohtonic species into ecosystems, which, as nature has said, did not affect the disappearance of indigenous species, to the rigid degradation of nature in the wider areas of the globe, then, the development of dirty technologies and industry, which has led to significant changes in climate change. Mr. Minister, this is where you talked about that only today in Europe is threatened or at the border of the disappearance of thousands of plant species and 150 animal species, above all birds. Every disappearance of one species from the face of the Earth is a very difficult and irreparable loss. Basically, it's a great crime to nature, which man did. Such proportions and spheres of man’s harmful action are not adequately considered and easily overcome. A man in the past history of his existence as a biological species, from the moment he came up with only one characteristic of him - consciousness, spontaneously, from the beginning instinctively, and then intuitively, tended to profit as a way to improve his quality of life. To this day, it seems to have remained a dominant motto for man and that in this inexhaustible desire to increase profits in any respect, it is undermining many values that are worthy of respect. That is how nature and the environment are aligned, which is, in fact, a priority above all priorities. For these reasons, clear legal regulations are needed, which without calculations respects the order of things and order of priorities in the existence and perspective of the human species on earth. Since, unfortunately, we live in a dirty and unclean environment full of waste, all available capacities need to be organised and designed to work on education and public awareness of the need to preserve and improve the environment, which was mentioned in the previous set of laws. We believe that, from preschool to preschool, education programmes need to work to shape and raise the level of environmental awareness and environmental culture. This dimension must become a mandatory, fundamental part of each person. Without these values, there is no perspective for humanity and life on earth. It seems that some of the world's leading forces, in fact, are their political elites, the lack of environmental awareness and culture, which is very dangerous in terms of preserving a healthy environment and the perspective of life on earth. An example of such behavior is very relevant. It's about what happened. "green protectionism", which protects these countries' economy in the current economic and financial crisis. In fact, these lower standards and standards in environmental legislation. Nature and the environment are subordinated to profits, and on the other hand, high standards and standards are required from developing countries whose economies could be competitive for these first ones. Another example is what we have already heard in discussions about the previous set of laws. It is about using ammunition with poor uranium by a NATO alliance that targets Serbia. I wouldn't spread that story, that's a lot to hear about here, but both examples speak exactly about what is an insufficient ecological consciousness and environmental culture, and not only that, but morals, if you will. The SPS-JS parliamentary group has pointed to disputed amendments to the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which has already been discussed here in principle in discussions of authorised representatives before me. The amendment of Articles 84, 85 and 87 is directly contrary to the declared principles of decentralisation. These changes provide for a reduction in the share of environmental pollution compensation; for the Republic there was 40%, and for local self-government 60%, and now it is reversed. The amendment of Article 87 narrows the right to local self-government to autonomously prescribe compensation for protection and improvement of the environment. The proposed solution introduces compensation for building land, which already exists in municipalities. It is ignored that it is primarily a compensation for improving the environment, which has its foothold in the Law on Local Self-Government, as the original right of local self-government. As a result, it is not about pollution fees, prescribed members 84 and 85, but about the possibility of local self-government to determine the level of participation of individual entities in the improvement of the environment in their territory. Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, Article 49, provide for the abolition of the right of local self-government to benefit from the use of natural resources. In fact, Article 84 provided that this compensation for the use of natural values was 60% to the Republic and 40% to local self-government. I underline that using natural values certainly affects environmental conditions and reducing resources in local communities, which significantly reduces their overall capacity. We specifically point to the question, and it's worth thinking about, we're not exclusive in this regard, local Ecosystems. The proposal to amend and supplement the Environmental Protection Act provides for the abolition of the existence of local econds as legal entities and their adoption into budget funds. Local environmental funds have so far been the only programme institution in local communities to deal systematically and organised with environmental problems. Their drowning in the administration also means the disappearance of the only chance that we are not engaged in environmental issues in campaigns, as it has mostly been in those municipalities where ecosystems have not been formed so far. These proposed changes will directly reflect the financial and institutional capacity of local self-government to address a number of environmental problems, rather than considering that a package of environmental, etc. Green laws provide for the transfer of a number of new obligations to local self-government. Local self-government doesn't have enough resources now, and they don't have built capacity. This claim is also supported by a report by the EU Commission, which, as one of the biggest weaknesses in environmental reforms, has highlighted the lack of capacity for local self-government to improve the environment system. There is an argument that so far the practice of non-intentional spending, which is true in one large percentage, but it is not right to punish municipalities responsible for solving their environmental problems because of some negative examples. Why not take good examples and design strategies and regulations by them? A similar situation is also in the argument that certain local self-governments have prescribed inappropriately large benefits for improving and protecting the environment. In order to warn such situations, the proposed amendments, which provide for the government to prescribe the upper limit of taxis per product unit, should be supported. In the regulations of the proposed laws, it seems, or perhaps it's an illusion to us, that the height, or percentage, of the so-called. Environmental taxis are seen as the possibility of a larger procedure of funds belonging to the Republic or local self-government. I'm afraid this is viewed as an economic category that could potentially be used unintendedly, as used in some cases. Our SPS-JS parliamentary group, Mr. Minister, is potential for strengthening the supervisory function in this area in all aspects of the application of these laws and possible violations of the law. We mean the solution you pointed out, with the application of these laws at full capacity, because the truth is that we have no right to use our episodeal presence in this world as part of nature to degrade the environment and reduce its optimal capacities and to build the future evil generation fates that are coming. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will make a full contribution with its constructive and critical approach to bringing these environmental laws and adopting them and thus making a contribution to what I hope is the insistence of all of us – that we live in a healthy environment today, as well as our children tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16971	The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Pejica, authorised representative of the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16972	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days we have a set of laws in the field of environmental protection that we all agreed were among the most important laws. The reason for the adoption of these laws is not only the harmonisation of our legislation and legal legislation with the EU in this area, but also our need to adopt and implement these laws, because we have finally become aware of what our future and future of our descendants and this country depends on. The law to which I will specifically address are amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which eliminates the shortcomings of this law adopted in 2004 and complies with other system laws in the field of environmental protection relating to air, water, noise, nature, chemicals and others. This is a law that, I would say, unites all previous laws because it cares about the protection of soil, water, air, people, animals, plants, in short, of the entire environment. The question arises – what are these activities that affect the change in the state and conditions of the environment? These are, above all, the use of resources and natural resources, the process of production and transport, the release of polluting matter into water, air and land, waste management and waste water, chemicals, harmful substances, noise, vibrations, ionising and non-ionizing radiation and accidents. I'd like to stay a little longer on the use of resources and natural resources. We witness very often legal and illegal exploitation of gravel and sand in the banks of our rivers, which disrupts and destroys the environment and changes the flow of rivers. I come from Loznica, I was the deputy president of the City Assembly, and I know very well the opportunities of that environment. We face many problems because of the illegal and legal use of gravel and sand in the banks of the Drina River. It is not only the city of Loznica, but other municipalities, such as Bogatic and Ljubovija. So far, this matter has been regulated mainly by the Mining and Energy Act, and in part by the Law on the Protection of the Environment, but members of the 15th and 16th of this law now speak more precisely to whom and how the competent authority can issue authorisation for the use of natural resources and goods. Article 16 says, quotes: "A legal and physical person who degrades the environment is obliged to remediate or otherwise resuscitate the degraded environment, in line with the projects of rehabilitation and remediation. The projects referred to in Article 1 shall be agreed upon by the Ministry. The Minister responsible for environmental affairs prescribes a methodology for the production of recovery and remediation projects, except for projects for the exploitation of mineral raw materials which are governed by specific regulations. "The improvement compared to the previous version of this law is that now the Ministry prescribes a methodology for the development of recovery and remediation projects, and does not leave the possibility for legal and physical persons to fix and resuscitate that destroyed environment as they consider it best. Also, Article 116 provides for fines for legal persons, ranging from one million to three million dinars, for those who, quote: "1) use natural resources or goods without the consent of the Ministry, 2) do not remediate or otherwise resuscitate the degraded environment, 3) remediation or otherwise resuscitate the degraded environment without the consent of the Ministry". Penalty policy is much more severe because it provides for a ban on the performance of five to ten years, a ban on a responsible person to perform certain duties of three to ten years and to confiscate cases, but I wonder, given that the provisions of Article 16 will only apply from 2016, and that is five and a half years from now, what will happen to our natural goods, the coasts of our rivers, river flows, and will then have what more to protect, resuscitate and what will then look like the shores of our rivers? Also, a major controversy in the public has been caused by an 85th member to determine the compensation paid by the environmental polluter. The funds made out of compensation from this member amounting to 60% are the revenue of the Republic of Serbia's budget, with 40% of the income being the budgets of the local self-government units, which was reversed in the 2004 Law. The funds resulting from this compensation shall be used to protect and improve the environment according to the programmes, i.e. action plans and recovery plans to be adopted in accordance with this law. The government also prescribes criteria and determines areas of special interest, and thus also charges for these areas, 80% as income from the Republic of Serbia, and 20% are revenues from local self-government units whose territory is polluted by the polluter. It is precisely this ratio of distribution of compensation revenues to local self-government units and to the budget of the Republic of Serbia that has caused the biggest controversy in the public. However, I feel that it is necessary to pool in the budget some larger funds, since often the municipality (or the city) is unable to address an effective situation. The problems are often so great that both professionally and materially overcome the possibility of local self-government, so intervention of the Republic of Serbia's resolution ministry and budget, or the Environment Fund, is necessary. For example, in the Holding company "Viscoza" Loznica, on 8 December 2008, a fire occurred during the cutting of parts of equipment that affected two factories and threatened to endanger 500 tonnes of carbon disulfide. It is an extremely toxic, toxic, flammable and explosive matter, whose explosion would cause not only ecological disaster in the town of Loznica, but also in the good part of western Serbia and, for God's sake, Republika Srpska. However, with the exceptional pawning of fire teams from Loznica, Šapca, Sremska Mitrovica, Bajina Basta, Valjev and Belgrade, the MUP unit, the environment ministry, the fire was resolved two days later. On December 22nd, the solution ordered the transfer of 500 tonnes of carbon disulfide from the Viskoza Holding Company in the presence of inspectors and fire crews. For the realization of these emergency intervention measures in Holding the Viskoza company, it was necessary to secure from the budget, because local self-government was not ready at the time, 1,100,000 dinars. As far as I know, those funds have been granted, but they haven't been transferred yet. I would take this opportunity to ask Mr. Minister and the representatives of the Resolute Ministry for the city of Loznica to finally receive these funds to remove this dangerous matter from Loznica as soon as possible. Due to situations like this, when the local community has not provided for funds or has no technical opportunity to solve complex problems, assistance from the Environmental Protection Fund of the resolution ministry is needed, which will be financed under Articles 27, 45, 85 and 85. That is why I believe that the funds achieved by environmental pollutants should belong to the majority of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is 60% compared to local self-government units. Article 87 provides the possibility for local self-governments to prescribe compensation for the protection and improvement of the environment, which is made up of the city’s congregations or the municipality of municipalities, etc. Local taxes. At a time of global economic crisis, such taxes and segregation are not popular, but the long-term economic effects of investment in the environment produce direct and indirect benefits. The rights to local self-government, such as Paracin, Pančevo, Beocin, Kosjerić, Bor, have been abolished, and the greatest damage to pollution. I think double taxation of contaminants has been avoided, but I think local self-government, municipality or city has been damaged, which we might be able to fix with amendments to the discussion in particular. I would briefly refer to amendments and additions to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment, which addresses issues relating to the impact assessment of planned projects in the areas of tourism, industry, agriculture, water in the environment. This law, in fact, shortened the procedure for impact assessment from 262 days to a maximum of 108 days, without appeal deadline. Also, compliance with the Law on Planning and Construction has been carried out. Article 19(2) says that the legal person and the entrepreneur are obliged to educate a multidisciplinary team composed of persons qualified for the production of the study, which has not been the case so far. Under the previous law, he could, but he didn't have to educate an expert team for the area. I believe that the adoption of these laws and their application will contribute to maintaining the ecological balance, preventing further pollution, contributing to improving human health and removing already damaged ecosystems in the past. If it is known that only one in ten citizens is ready for some ecological action, I think that only after the adoption of these laws awaits us a very serious job, and that is their implementation and application. The most difficult thing about us is consciousness, habits, and thinking. The G17 plus parliamentary group will give its support and vote for a set of these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16973	Any of the other presidents of the parliamentary groups come forward? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, today we are having a united principle debate on extremely important legislative proposals, and of all the proposed legislative proposals in points 2 - 14 of the agenda, we particularly highlight the importance of the roof law, which is the law on nature protection. In our opinion, it should be in the first place, because it is derived from the other laws that we are considering today in this set of laws, which deal with the system of protection of the environment, the preservation of nature and its biological and landscapes of diversity. The PUPS believes that all the laws offered in the field of environmental protection and nature impose the need to newen the legal standards governing this area. On the other hand, they are part of the mandatory compliance process with international standards. This should together give quality and clarity to science-based laws on governance, protection, preservation and rational use of the nature and resources of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed draft laws of this set on nature protection are based on a good thought to identify a far greater number of sources of rights for users and managers of all natural resources of Serbia, and above all land, water, air, domestic and wild flora and fauna. An economic and economically underfunctional state, such as ours, is faced with a huge and difficult challenge that, in its most valuable resources, on the basis of internationally established obligations and ratified contracts in the field of protection of biodiversity, with the modest potential of its own resources, justifies a degree of protection and conservation of nature. The attainment of a degree of democratic and technological development, in all different ways, and in a specific space of the Republic of Serbia requires new and better legal regulation than the existing one. The parliamentary role in this biggest challenge for survival, sustainable development, improvement and use of our nature, as well as our environment, is to control the implementation of directives, regulations, agendas and conventions which, together with domestic laws, regulations, regulations and regulations, should enable a comprehensive and strictly controlled approach to the preservation of habitats, landscapes and biodiversity of our country to be regulated. Parliament must age and require the Government, ministries and other bodies not to compromise the complexity, complexity, interdependence of phenomena and processes in the environment, while also achieving an integrated approach and defining the conditions for normative adjustment of all principles in the field of governance of natural values, particularly in the protection of biodiversity and landscapes of diversity. Parliament has a role and a duty to, as the legal guardian of national treasures, resources and natural goods of particular importance, to protect the laws passed by one of Europe's greatest and most beautiful biodiversitys. Our biodiversity is conditioned by a biogeographical position that enables the spread of different elements of flora and fauna and geno elements; the great variety of ecological, climate, orographic and geological conditions; the mosaic layout of habitats; the development of three large sea basins (Black Sea, Adriatic and Aegean); a particularly important position on all the faunist migration routes of birds and wild fish; the refugee areas of canyons, gorge and caves in beauty. In particular, it should be pointed out that this set of laws, primarily by the law on nature protection, obliges the Serbian parliament to agree well on legislation that will improve one of the largest vascular systems of flora in Europe, with a coefficient of 0.718, which lies ahead of Greece, Bulgaria, Romania and other much more developed countries. The species were spoken of by the minister. The PUPS believes that the protection, preservation and use of such rich natural resources, which account for 43.4% of the total number of all animal groups in Europe, is of paramount importance. A good legal framework and regulation that is in the power of this Parliament should achieve an important and responsible control role over the ministry which performs its tasks. The economic meaning and the very high value of our country's biological resources for social and economic development are vital to the population that is the bearer and executioner of economic and social development plans, programmes, foundations and projects for the sustainable use of our country's renewable resources. The constitution of our country has precisely defined that all these values are state property, the national treasure managed by the country's parliament, and the laws are implemented by competent ministries and authorities. The proposed set of laws was based on the prescribed system of measures under the Natura 2000 programme, the Emerald Network, and was in line with the Council Directive of 21. 5. In 1992, 9243, to Directives and Conventions 0024 to 220 of 2006. The draft laws mainly covered all regulations and definitions that eliminate the gap in the legal vacuum resulting from the disintegration of previous state arrangements, long-term sanctions and the transition period. It was impossible to pass positive legal regulations, and even less was possible to apply any of them in practice in such an environment. The shortcomings in the draft laws set out in this set will try to remove the huge number of amendments that each policy option has made and which should be a positive contribution to adapting real entities to legal liability offered by the laws. For example, only the HasAP system regulation obliges our producers to carry out technological and technical preparations for the application of the rules, which costs between 10,000 and 15,000 euros. Our individual, our country does not have these resources, nor do our legal entities that are exposed to training at enormous material costs. The Nature Protection Act, as a roof law in this package, which is closer to regulating the protection, conservation and use of nature and natural resources, envisioned the main flows and conditions for the development and adoption of laws on the protection and sustainable use of the fish fund, as a special law, which because 90% of the laws in the area of agriculture and water industry are necessarily referring to a principled debate with a serious approach. It is pointed out immediately that there is no comprehensive view of the problems of fishing, nor have any significant objections to the current Fisheries Act been removed, nor have legal solutions been fully seen as being sent to the directives and conventions, as well as in the practical application of this law. The basic principle of precise determination of the size, quality and quantity of Serbia's fish fund in the area of wild and farmed species is an undefined condition, which is defined by the Constitution in Article 87 as state property and national resource. The establishment of fishing areas for the sustainable use of the fish fund in Serbia's fishing waters again, with the proposal for authorisation, is unconstitutionally attributed and assigned to the ministry. The national resource and protected natural resources of the ZPD, through the law on sustainable development, use and protection, can only be managed and held by parliament, which is the face of the state, and not by the minister of free will and intent, which is the official of the state and that parliament. The PUPS considers that the control role of parliament is to be seen precisely in the fact that the allocation and concession of fishing areas to use, as well as any other area with national resources, must be allocated to legislation, which must be applied without delay. Fishing areas are now allocated to public enterprises, sports fishing associations, which are not companies, and companies such as "Grand Coffee" or "Rivers Guard", which are certainly not technically and professionally equipped for the performance of their activities, but have received them for quite other reasons. The proposer of this law considers that the introduction of a company or a public undertaking in the category of future users of fisheries areas has solved the problem, not entering the basic form, principle and application of Article 84. The Constitution which determines that all have the same position in competition on the market, including in this market. Users must be legal persons, including public enterprises, but cannot possibly be the bearers of the legal norms of the basic organisation of sports fishermen, which are citizens' associations. Closer to determining the duties and material responsibilities of fishermen in the realisation of the measure and preservation of Serbia's fish fund have been given confusingly. They are neither specified under the nomenclature nor by the level of priority, nor by the degree of responsibility for their execution or non-execution. The PUPS considers that a law which does not contain clearly defined conservation, protection and use measures of natural resources becomes the sole right of the minister as an individual to decide, negotiate and determine the amount of compensation, to determine the provisional measures. The introduction of the obligation to pass examinations for sports fishermen, commercial fishermen and fishing services is in the partial jurisdiction of the legislators of this law, who should only propose training and laying programmes in professional chambers. The measures to protect the sustainable use of the fish fund are not clearly nominated either by the holder's titles or by the depositors of responsibility. The user of the fishing area does not have the professional service or the capacity to determine and declare a fish farm, and its legal framework should be kept in the proposing sphere, while the ministry would be obliged to develop professional expertise and declare a fish farm. The obligation to fish in fishing waters, as well as the translocation of fish to be carried out by the user, is proposed very loosely and declaratively and is fully left to the users of the fishing area, which determines for themselves when, where and with which they will fish, and the Ministry of Staff will agree on their plan for fishing. We believe that for the visibly degraded and impoverished fish fund of Serbia, the Ministry must firmly prescribe quantities, types, times and methods of fishing only for indigenous fish species. As part of the poor measures of protection and sustainable development of the fish fund, the ministry has proposed amnesty of major hydroenergy systems through a single megawatt of responsibility for a negative impact on flora and fauna due to exploitation and daily water disorders. The control role of parliament consists of not allowing the ministry to adopt such a member who would prevent negative governance and create negative consequences on such an important resource as the fish fund. The obligation of users of feed, turbine and other channels, as well as the user of the dam, to provide adequate fish transit routes is more declarative and is the product of harmonising our acts with the European act, instead of limiting the measure to the criminal responsibility of the responsible persons, including the responsibility of taking away the fishing area, to implement this measure. The lack of Parliament's control role is evident and the introduction of fisheries councils with clearly defined powers and responsibilities is proposed. In this draft law, special indetermination is caused by provisions on authorisations for commercial and sport fishing and on the authorisations of the fishing area users. The law must define the pre-known basis for paying compensation paid by an economic and sports fisherman to obtain a single permit to the ministry on behalf of the fee for the use of Serbia's fish fund. The fee is due to be paid to the ministry, permits should be unique to Serbia and distributed favorably by the users of the fishing area. The Ministry's idea of allowing economic and sport fishing and compensation to be paid to the user of the fishing area should be issued and charged through the authorities of local self-government is unsustainable because it is expensive, since it requires a completely new infrastructure. The fishing ticket for business or sports fishing is the right of the user of the fishing area and will determine the price and method of distribution, and anyone who has interests will issue them as much as possible and will bring them closer to those to whom they are issued. The big problem and uncertainty in this law is that fish transport is not defined either in the field of fishing and preparation for sale, nor in the area of zoohygiene, sanitary and technical, marketable, and in particular not financial conditions. This law is not competent to determine and formulate the tax obligations of entrepreneurs who place fish on the market directly from the boat in consummation facilities, without the control of veterinarians, inspectors or any other representative of the Authority. Dear Minister, on the proposal for a sustainable development and conservation law, we have submitted 40 amendments. If they are accepted through amendments and debate by those who significantly regulate this law and contribute to the satisfaction of 150,000 - 300,000 sports fishermen and 2,000 commercial fishermen, as well as all scientific institutions that have dealt with these issues, we will support this law. Otherwise, we can't support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-04-03-0.u16975	We're done for today. We continue on April 6th at 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
