ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31930	Mrs. Comic, this is not according to the Rules of Procedure. I will congratulate all citizens of Serbia on the great Muslim holiday of Bajram Kurban on behalf of me and the SRS. I want all citizens to live in peace and celebrate it in peace and prosperity. I think it was your turn, Mrs. Comic, or you or anyone, or the President of the Assembly, to say in some way in this House and this holiday that is today. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31931	The title above article 10 and article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31932	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has also tried to point out in principle the importance of this member and the intention of the legislator of this law to ensure, in fact, the systematic collapse of the integrity of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the systematic definition of the spatial development of the Separatical-Autonomic Region of Vojvodina. What can be recognised in this definition of this article is the fact that because of this concept, you will break the horizontal and vertical coordination of the arrangement of space in the territory of the RS and what we essentially resent is that it is unacceptable that you have not defined by any single word in point 1) of this Article the obligation that all spatial, planning documents that will be defined by the province's authorities in Vojvodina be bound, i.e. by the planning documents of the national character as the highest level of planning in our country. If you look at point 1), that's what we said in the principle debate, you can't recognize any of the principles of regulation of space defined in the Law on Planning and Construction. That was important, we repeat, to systematically collapse the concept of planning, which would define Serbia's planned spatial development as a whole. On the other hand, in that same article you also foresee the definition of the development bank of the AP Vojvodina. The SRS is asking a question - why does a regional development bank if we don't have a national development bank? Why is a developmental, or state-owned bank in market economy and market economy, if you have no intention of building a central bank or bank that will be a NBS pandan in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31933	Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 19 members of the DSS parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Rade Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31934	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member has a large number of responsibilities. It's very hard to talk about them all in two minutes. I will talk about the concept of a development bank, given the possibility, i.e. this article opens up the possibility of forming a development bank. There are different types of banks - commercial, investment, etc. It is not quite clear, but it is obvious that the ultimate goal is to create a single development bank, which will, in fact, enable lending under some favourable conditions. There are two aspects we can talk about here. First, how much is that in accordance with the applicable acts? When you look at the memorandums on budget and economic and fiscal policy for 2010, 2011 and 2012, which defines the main guidelines for the formation and management of economic policy, the financial sector is said to be making significant progress in the fact that the state no longer has practically its own bank, i.e. the reduction in the participation of state banks and that the state is a shareholder or owner of a total of nine banks and that it is the majority owner of four banks, while in the long run as a serious reform of the sector, it states that the privatisation of the remaining banks will end, with the state being the majority owner only in the Commercial and Postage Savings. There's not a single word that the state plans to build any bank of its own. The second thing, the law itself says, is that the establishment of a development bank is planned in accordance with the law, which is governed by the establishment, business and organisation of the bank. The applicable law is the law on banks. When you look at that law, that law absolutely gives you the opportunity to create only a commercial bank. What are the problems with this law? One bank can be made by having a minimum of two founders, so the AP can't just comply with this law to be the founder of the bank. The second thing, at this point being the owner of the bank isn't a little simple. Absolutely all laws must be applied and applied to stock companies. It's very strict conditions that apply to capital. The bank's capital must be 10m euros and the bank, i.e. the founder, has no opportunity to withdraw that founding capital. The National Bank has very strict conditions regarding the mandatory reserve. A significant part of those funds must be in the NB. The National Bank is conducting extremely rigorous control conditions. Very strict conditions relating to the revision must be respected, very strict conditions for capital adequateness must be respected. Article 23 is extremely strict, because it absolutely introduces very strict conditions under which the funds will be placed and what ratio of fixed assets with total capital should be. Article 37 defines how a bank operates with connected persons. The bank cannot, under any more favourable conditions, grant credits to related persons, which are in any way linked to the bank. Therefore, anything related to APV, anything the founder of APV cannot obtain any more favourable credit from the development bank than any other depositary of that bank. So the basic question is, how is this bank going to work at all? What is the purpose of a bank that cannot help the realization of any of these objectives, except for some subsidized loans, which is probably done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The only conclusion is that this bank will be liquidated before it works.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31935	One minute and 50 seconds of time spent from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31936	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what is important to us in this article, as well as in other members, is the fact that it is defined here in attitude 1. that APV - through its bodies, will be in the area of spatial planning and regional development, in accordance with the law. Therefore, since the laws are passed by the Council of the Republic of Serbia, this only means that all these powers that the APV, which are laid down by this law, will work in accordance with the laws to be passed by the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, I see no danger that the AP can in any way be outside Serbia's system, to regulate this area. It can only implement the law passed by the Republic of Serbia to actually realise its objectives, which have been established by these powers. As far as the development bank is concerned, what is crucial for us and why the provision is absolutely not disputed, it is in fact that at point 14 of this same member is defined as follows - the establishment of the APV development bank, in accordance with the law governing the establishment, business and organisation of banks. The APV will not, by its special act, edit this area, but under the law, which the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of Serbia, has passed, will establish this bank. I don't see that there's any danger of that bank being, again, outside the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31937	Two minutes used by the time of the president of the parliamentary group. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31938	You hurt the Rules of Procedure when you didn't warn Mrs. Kolundji that everyone here should only speak what fits the truth. It is not true that Vojvodina will not do anything against the law in establishing a development bank, because Vojvodina has already bought Metals Bank against the law. Without an item in the budget, the APV budget, or Serbia's budget, was spent on the purchase of one bank, which is before that, but it will be said by Mrs Tabakovic, a drastically reduced price, so that now that the bank bought the APV, and you would have to tell me immediately by which law the banks are organised, immediately after that, the bank's actions jumped multiple and already profited those who bought the bank. So, one wrongly created shop you now want to turn into someone else's acquired right. I did for Vojvodina to have a development bank, but I'm the first to have Serbia have a development bank. I did for Vojvodina to have a development bank, but not by buying Pajtic the Metals Bank for the needs of the Vojvodina Executive Council. Tell me, what country in the world does one government buy a bank? So, she's giving birth wrongly and it's humping. You will find this in the first legal acts Serbia has ever had. That's why, Mrs. Kolundjia, when you defend this law, what it says is "in accordance with the law", first you show us the practice that it was in accordance with the law. I'm telling you that Metals Bank was purchased illegally by the Vojvodina Executive Council and is now growing, in accordance with the law, into a development bank – right? Kidnapping turns into legalization.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31939	People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. The interpretation of Hope Kolundzija's MP was related to the amendment of MP Radet Obradovic and to a law that will only come into force. As I have no reason to remind her of any untrueness, I have no reason to remind you of the untrueness, but there were no violations of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP Rada Obradovic, so the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundžija and the People's MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31940	I'll be very brief. What I said was that the government obviously changed its mind over an act that defines its economic policy. In a document called the Memorandum of Economic Policy, there is no mention of the establishment of a new bank. Second thing, I was saying that this bank has to operate under the applicable law. The current law does not give the possibility to create a development bank, it will be a classical commercial bank as well as any other that will not offer its founders any benefit other than any other commercial bank that exists in the Republic of Serbia. The founder will be faced with very serious regulations that he must apply and absolutely does not stand for the fact that this bank will be able to help anyone in Vojvodina develop evenly or anything else, it will be a classic commercial bank that will probably only give its founders the opportunity to create any benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31941	It's been used 50 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31942	I just wanted to say that here we are talking about the law on determining jurisdiction and that I spoke very precisely about what the law says, not citing arguments or unargumented examples of whether the laws so far have been respected and where they are not all respected. So, if the recapitalisation of the bank is carried out, it is not contrary to the law, it is done as legitimate, in accordance with the law and what is so far crucial to me, it is that whoever claims that something has been done against the law is obliged to inform the competent institutions that will then take steps, in accordance with their competences, rather than accusing a fellow MP of alleged information that he knows of something that is allegedly not in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31943	One minute and five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group president have been used. National MP Vlatko Ratkovic, then MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31944	I believe that the solution given in the Bill's proposal is more comprehensive and celery, given that what in one segment integrates what we are already in system areas, especially in the area of spatial planning and development, is already regulated by a set of laws in the area of spatial planning. The amendment is, to put it this way, at the intensification of the reduction of jurisdiction in this area. So, the amendment proposes that it be eight responsibilities, and Article 10. The bill proposes 15 competences. The planning and development of spatial planning must also include certain acts, such as agreement on the spatial and urban plans of units of local self-government from the territory of the AP Vojvodina, proposing measures for the implementation programme of the Republic of Serbia's spatial plan for the territory of Vojvodina, the adoption of a programme of measures to implement the regional spatial plan of the AP Vojvodina, the establishment of a development bank of the AP Vojvodina in accordance with the law governing the establishment, operation and organisation of banks. So this is an apostrophe, that the establishment of a development bank is bound and conditioned and will be determined by law governing the business of the organization and the establishment of banks, and there must be no speculation that this is governed by this law. The establishment of the Vojvodina Development Bank must be clearly highlighted, governed by law, by system law in the area, so I suggest that this amendment be not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31945	It was used two minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31946	Of course, I'll talk about this amendment, but I have to warn the public that the facts are dry. You know, if you put this provision on the Vojvodine Development Bank in the agenda in a law that is on the agenda, and if you put something similar into the future of the AP Vojvodina Statute, please state – it will be established, it will be established, counting on it to be done in the future, I must tell you that it has already been done in the past. Last year, about this time, in October, at the request of DS and Bojan Pajtic, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia introduced temporary measures into the "Metals" bank due to liquidity problems, i.e. due to the expected liquidity problem of the "Metals" bank, which in its business mainly worked with the economy and little with citizens, when talking about loans etc. However, it is a bank that has an extremely good business space. As part of her business policy, she invested a lot in real estate, and when it comes to the development bank from the views of existing regulations, whether or not a bank is a developmental one, it should be interpreted from the perspective of its business rather than from the point of view of founding capital or ownership structure. What happened last year at this time? It happened that the AP had withdrawn its deposits from the bank, further threatened the business of the bank in the perspective, and then, when DS and G-17 plus AP Vojvodina found a solution to how to stabilise the bank, since many depositors went away, very strong, electricity, and not to order further, mines, etc., and then in the closed process the province bought shares and became a significant owner of the Metals bank, and now they no longer hide that it was a development bank. If it were a development bank, you announced it during the election campaign last year. It's the design system you're working on. That's the goal of kidnapping that bank. So this bank wasn't even bought, but was kidnapped, synchronised, with the help of the National Bank, primarily the Governor and with the assistance of the President of the Securities Commission, who gave consent to this closed purchase of "Metals" bank stock. This is what you have done and are preparing the ground for it to be a bank similar to the Central Bank of Montenegro in the future, where you would take something from abroad to commercial arrangements. So when you're saying it's going to be started, I just remind you, you've already illegally established, you've practically founded, or kidnapped a bank, causing an artificial crisis in the business of that bank. That is what you do. The cabbage looks, the flesh draws. One thing you're saying to the public, and in fact what you're doing is quite the opposite. It is the same as what they say – we will employ 200,000 people, and every month 10,000 loses their jobs. It's DS and it's this statute and it's this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31947	It's been used four minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31948	Generally, others find what I would not waste time on in front of the Serbian Progressive Party, which is a diagnosis that there has been an illegal state of affairs that this law on determining jurisdiction is being carried out, the lawyers would say, convalidating the irregular state. In the name of my party, I'll say what one won't see, it's power and something others still can't see, and it's almost obvious. The intention of setting up a development bank as a special financial agent for Vojvodina was in the plan as early as 2006, on September 27th, when the Vojvodina Assembly sent Serbia's draft law amending and supplementing the Banks Act. I believe that there is someone who remembers it, there is still this proposal on the site, but that amendment request was motivated by giving legal coverage to the illegal work of the Development Fund. What's illegal? The Vojvodina Development Fund has been acting like a bank all along, but there's no censorship of a bank or founding capital as high as they should have, millions, as well as banks. He's got no control over it, but he's reporting to his majority, and he's got no responsibility for the placement of capital, and he's got only $500 as a founding role. So, the fear of the ruling majority in Vojvodina, to introduce illegal funding in legal frameworks through the Development Fund, which was registered as DOO, is the establishment of a Development Bank that needs to cover it. This is part of the reason why this law has proposed and the establishment of the Development Bank has already been done. If it were illegal, because as an institutional investor, the province could not appear on behalf of the Republic, regardless of the opinion given by the finance minister in this regard, that consciously reduced values of actions so that with less money, metals bank actions could be bought, is also a fact that no one can dispute and the claim that this organisation will not operate outside the system and the law, but is not. It is outside the law, outside the Commission on securities of value, everything else, already formed. With an interesting newspaper, the gentlemen of Vojvodina could patent the budget-making system. So, first you spend 3,500,000 to buy some bank stock, for example, you don't have that anywhere in the budget, and then before the end of the year you rebalance, you show that money for the already done purchase. Can any of you do that in your home, in your company, or in your own serious institution? No, I don't. It can only be done in the province, in the AP Vojvodina. What other interesting situation is there? It is clear that a bank that was founded as a Developmental bank, although it has it in its name, cannot give any more favourable loans to its commissioners. First, for real reasons. If you give someone money out of savings, interest from 6% to 10% you can place it with at least 11% if you don't lose, if you don't expect the state to cover your losses, if you do business normally. Since public enterprises and institutions under this law are also owned by the province of Vojvodina, according to the law and regulations of the bank, this, as well as each other, by decision 107, all these public enterprises and institutions are connected persons who cannot use the credits of the Development Bank. Let me repeat to those who talk about the system and the work within the system. So, the story is that institutions and funds and public enterprises will develop water and forest, etc. The power to use this money is already at this point a sign of illegal behaviour, related persons, I say, by decision 107 of 28 December 2008 the National Bank will not be able to do so. What's interesting? Vojvodina is ahead of all, in terms of organisational integrity for the use of EU funds from IPA funds. So what we're not still using from those five groups of funds, which is the most interesting regional development, which is why this bank is called development. That's why somewhere in this law the AP is called a region, and somewhere called the AP, where it is more suited to standing in front of the money withdrawal line, so this organization, along with the already existing European Jobs Office, is already spending 27 million dinars in the budget, out of which 13 million dinars, half of which goes to employees' salaries. It is the small-scale administration in Vojvodina, which will be a solid aid and support for the use of IPA funds, and before the state of the Republic of Serbia, which will have to appear as a guarantee for these loans and funds. Vojvodina will appear as an AP that has infrastructure in the office and development bank, as a right to use these funds for the development of the region, but the state of Serbia will have to be guaranteed, because only the National Assembly makes decisions on borrowing, even though you are euphemist here, which I do not allegedly transfer to the system of granting jurisdiction, this as a framework of the law, so at the moment when the Republic assumes the guarantee it always writes as the first uninvited payee, it will have to fulfil the obligations that this bank makes, because it cannot be regressed, i.e. to collect guaranteed loans as with other users, because the Constitution guarantees that the AP cannot reduce some of the credit funds for Vojvodina. So when it's due to the railways, the Republic can block what it pays as a guarantee, when they're late, they won't be able to do it at the AP Vojvodina. The management of the public debt that is taken over here in the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, in part, and it will be the basis of what I'm talking about is something that is not the practice of any country. The right of local self-government to be in charge cannot imply public debt management, which the Vojvodina will have here. It just means that this EU accession is going to go, and it's not my fear, it's already a screenplay, on a parallel double track that we've already seen. I have an interesting question – on behalf of which the Republic of Serbia as a state accepts as a restriction by receiving a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, number 42, loan 7651F, which we ratified here on June 2nd, of 34m and 900,000 euros, where the state must reduce its participation in the financial sector from the current 17.29 to 10% in 2010, when it comes to banks. It's not a secret piece of paper. This is an explanation for the law we passed. At the same time, AP Vojvodina is allowed to buy, that is, to start a single development bank. Is it one system, is it one of those same laws, is this one state or are these double criteria, or is this double application of one of those same laws? To hear, does anyone have an answer to this question, at a time when the Commercial Bank is preparing and already booking money so that we can maintain participation in accordance with the foreign investor in its capital, the state in such a shortage and crisis provides Vojvodina, I said by patenting budgets that can now be sold, licensed, protected or otherwise done, what the Republic of Serbia is not forbidden, but what it has committed itself to. Is this a unique financial system? If there is not a call that suggests the problem, but if there is already a problem that its bitter fruits offer to all of us in two lines on the priority of borrowing and debt management for which the Republic will guarantee, which will be discussed by the unequal position of citizens within a single country, then that is exactly what this Development Bank is and that is why our amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31949	The used time from the parliamentary minute is eight minutes and 45 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this article 11 is in this title - Space Planning and Regional Development. I'd have to comment on something Mrs. Kolundji just said, which refers to the previous article 10. The last few days, as long as the debate on the draft law on the transfer of jurisdiction and the Statute of Vojvodina has been held, it has not been rare in this assembly and in the public that the opposition has no arguments. Then the representatives of the authorities come out here and say that planning and planning and construction operations will be conducted and carried out in accordance with the law. I'd like Mrs. Kolundjia not to be here to read to me by the representatives of the majority where it was defined in article 10 that spatial planning in the territory of the AP Vojvodina would be done in accordance with the law. That's exactly what we insist on, that it's tendingly omitted. If you look at Article 10, you can't recognize any of the principles of regulation of space that you've adopted by adopting the Law on Planning and Construction. See how much that term is defined non-chalantly and gives space for speculation and understanding in one way or another or third way. You say you're planning development planning. Development planning is not the principle of planning, i.e. regulating the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It doesn't say anything in the Planning and Construction Act. That's one thing. In line with economic policy, what does economic policy mean? What category of economic policy does this apply to? Finally, it writes - with the regional development strategy of the Republic of Serbia. You wrote the strategy in a small letter. This does not refer to the document - the regional development strategy. What does that mean? That means you have no obligation to respect the strategy you have brought, which is still not a binding document. If you really wanted to do what Mrs. Nada Kolundji said, you should have said that the spatial documents, the planning documents in the AP territory would be brought in accordance with the Space Plan of the Republic of Serbia, which has not been adopted again for the last 30 years due to obstruction, or 20 years, could not be brought in because of the obstruction of the province's organs. That's what we told you in the principle debate. Whose regional development strategy? Democratic parties, SPS, DSS, whose strategy? You should have made that clear, not told us how something was going to be done in accordance with the law. On the other hand, what is Serbia's experience with your relationship with this thesis, in accordance with the law, when it comes to planning and building? We've been witnessing for the last ten years. In 2003. The Law on Planning and Construction was passed with the promotion and the insistence of the DS. He was promoted by Minister Schumarac. Dear gentlemen, the law was binding back then, and the law also created some obligations both for local self-government and for the provinces and for the whole of the Republic of Serbia. Since then, half a million illegally built buildings have been present in Serbia. You're telling us a story - according to the law. And under that law you were obliged to adopt spatial plans for all local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Today, it registers only 20.30% of spatial plans for municipalities in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia. The truth is there are most of them in the AP Vojvodina, but they certainly didn't get it all. Then the question is asked and the answer is given - why is Serbia standing? Why can't Serbia improve and cannot develop? With this article 11, you continue this story. I just have to mention what's meant by "Metals Bank," and it's in Article 10. You've almost defined that bank in the District Assembly and made it. Don't convince us now that you're going to make it in accordance with the law. A member of her board is the man we heard about yesterday, a certain Mr. Shogorov, a story about his criminogenic tendencies. What's going on? Now you convince us that it will all be in accordance with the law, on the one hand. On the other hand, the question again -- what is the state bank doing in the market economy? Is that a function of protecting competition? We hear there's a law coming up. What if they didn't intend to, one day, grow into a state bank, or a central bank? As for Article 11, you can recognize the malignancy of those who have prepared this in Novi Sad. Now, you define the powers you're taking, or you're taking over from the Department of Planning and Construction. You issue permits for building and using objects, so I don't read any further. Whose income will be those permits, the revenues from issuing the permits? Certainly, AP Vojvodina, but it will be as trusted jobs to be financed by the Republic of Serbia's budget. Not to read now what jurisdiction is. How did the creators of this text not remember to assume the obligation to finance or co-finance the development of spatial plans for units of local self-government and urban plans for units of local self-government, which are now under the new Law on Planning and Construction of Obligations? How come you didn't foresee to take over these responsibilities? No, but it says one thing that those who have secessionist ambitions in Novi Sad have full support for you in Belgrade, DS and Boris Tadic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31951	Four minutes and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31952	Those 15 minutes, Mrs. Comic. Here, article 11, is an example of something that can't be done. In time, I warn you that whoever designed article 11 if you vote for this as it is written, he would probably have to go to jail. Here's why. You, under the decentralisation layer, are actually carrying out deetatization. What's this about? You in the area of construction and urbanism and first-degree and second-degree procedure gave AP, to the authorities of the AP. Autonomous province and citizens have the right to the AP to this kind of self-government, only on certain issues in some area, and you have given the whole area. You are now, if article 11. The bill, carried out an act of discrimination against citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because the one in Pirote when complaining about the solution, where he is not given a building permit, complains to a second-degree body at the level of the Republic. Where's the guy who's in Vienna complaining? He completes the procedure in Novi Sad, cannot reach Belgrade. Do you know who the Agent of the Republic of Serbia is in the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights? The Republic of Serbia. Now the Republic of Serbia should be responsible for what Bojan Pajtic did. You're building a state in the country and you're giving evidence of that. You even gave the AP to this member more than what remains to the Republic of Serbia. You also gave what the Republic of Serbia doesn't have and you say, the derrans are playing. They don't know what that synonym means for any word. Here's your proof, and you have a lot of such members, where you say -- Serbia will not exist on the territory of Vojvodina. You gave even what the Republic doesn't have and you directly caused discrimination against the citizens that the one in Vienna can't get protection at the level of the Republic in matters of the jurisdiction of the Republic in state matters. You stopped this at the province level because practically the province authorities are the highest authorities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That's what you got yourself into. Which is why, because of the white shengen. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31953	Two minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with Articles 11 and this amendment, is similar to the situation we had just before with Article 10, because representatives of the ruling majority, in defense of the government's proposal as supreme or only argument, is that this is not contrary to other applicable laws. The laws that are in the procedure can have elements that are contrary to the Constitution, must be in accordance with the Constitution, so it can be removed, must be in accordance with the laws, it must absolutely be respected, but those solutions must be good at the same time. The act can be in line with both the Constitution and the law, and that solution is good, that's your development bank thing. Obviously, the bank is absolutely not developmental, except as it is called, obviously that the bank must operate under the applicable laws that are extremely strict and will not be able to fulfil those functions. Therefore, this solution absolutely does not lead to a good bank and this solution is not a good solution. It's a similar matter with both article 11 and one of those responsibilities. The area of urban and building, spatial planning is the area where the highest number of competencies are handed over to the AP Vojvodina, a total of 21. Of course it's hard to achieve the measure of autonomy. What's to be transferred from the Republic to the province level? How do you provide the means to make it work? How to make a parallel structure and how to make a structure that does its job in the best possible way? There is a possibility here and it is proposed that the province issue building permits for all the facilities on its territory. What kind of objects are these anyway? When you look at the Law on Planning and Construction adopted several months ago, the province takes responsibility for issuing building permits for high dams and accumulating, for nuclear facilities, for stadiums for more than 10,000 viewers, buildings of more than 50 meters, buildings of a range greater than 50 meters, airports, passenger ports, ports, facilities for electricity production. First, when you look at all the tenders, most of them our construction firms were unable to participate because they had no reference, such buildings in Serbia were not built. On the other hand, when you look at the list of objects, it is clear that in Serbia, economic activity is much higher than it is the number of such objects, which is extremely small. There is absolutely no triple rule in construction, and you know that it is not the same thing to issue a building permit for a family house and for a bridge range of 200 meters. These are two completely different things and issuing a building permit is not passing a driving test. You're supposed to be counting on 24 papers that are supposed to show up here, or 26 and say, "That's okay." That means a completely different approach. It is absolutely irrational to do at the level of the Republic of the Commission and a body that can deal with such serious matters and do the same in the territory of the province, if you know that during the year you have an extremely small number of such objects, if it requires very great technical training and if it requires significant financial resources. On the other hand, the ministry hires experts for these things, which will be the same experts who will then have to do professional jobs in two places, and you will have to have a parallelization that absolutely leads to hiring new people who will have nothing to do and it will certainly just raise costs, to the very least, to raise taxes for citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31955	One minute and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31956	We have proposed to delete point 1) in Article 11(1), which provides that the AP Vojvodina shall issue permits for the construction and use of buildings whose issue is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction, which is built in general on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. This continues in the continuity of the struggle we fought somewhere in July of this year, when there was a bill on regulation of space and construction, when we submitted the same amendment to Article 138 of that bill. For us, this law on determining jurisdiction and statutes, which we discussed yesterday, is, in fact, just the makeup of the statutes that were brought by DS and SPS in the Vojvodina Assembly in October. It's a real wish, it'll be what it was in October. These are now some fictitious concessions in front of the Serbian public, and I even think that here you have knowingly missed several unconstitutional provisions, so that the Constitutional Court has something to do and that it will undo some of the provisions of the laws and statutes and thus all the wolves will be fed up and all the sheep in number. So it began when the highway was built through Vojvodina, when separatists in Vojvodina rebelled who has the right to decide on behalf of their Vojvodina what to build, when, to issue a permit. I do not want you professionally, in terms of not only the value of objects, but the value of issuing permits for individual objects, to point out that this should be done by the ministry, but I would like to remind you that the current minister from Vojvodina, Mr Dulic, is Mr Dulic. Imagine, we have a minister from Vojvodina who has no jurisdiction at all in Vojvodina. That really doesn't make sense. Find some other form, some kind of consent, let the AP Vojvodina get an opinion, but to treat it as exclusively its territory. The government of Vojvodina treats Vojvodina as its territory. Only those facilities agreed upon by the Vojvodina government will be built on the territory. Legal protection is being achieved in the government of Vojvodina. He does not give you permission, you complain to them, and you have no one to submit to. It gives you some conditions that do not conform to what you wish, and you have no one to complain to. The state comes to the Danube and says, "I'm sorry, we don't have the authority to issue building permits." These are capital facilities and the corresponding state later for the use of these facilities. The airport, some highway, let the railroad, the pipeline, happens to be an accent and answers state, doesn't correspond to one region in that country. Another practice has been introduced by this construction law to slowly separate Vojvodina from some of its responsibilities. I agree, let it have jurisdiction, but completely excludes the state in which it is located, completely excludes the Republic of Serbia from those responsibilities. You'll still convince me it's not a separatist act in many of your members. Yes, it is. Something hidden, and something completely open, like this -- jurisdiction to issue a permit.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31957	One minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group president. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Velimir Ilic, Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Milutin Jelic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 19 MPs of the DSS group and MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Miroslav Petkovic has the word, so the MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31958	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when you have a law like this, which is a legal hybrid that came out of the Statute of Vojvodina, then you can find really anything in it. From that shameful five-minute presentation by Mr Cvetkovic, we have not heard a single word about this issue, and I am sure Mr Bradic will not be involved in this debate today. In Article 12 of the proposed law, you provide that the authorities of the AP Vojvodina in the area of housing are to resolve complaints, i.e. in the second degree. The apartment is an exclusive right of local self-government. Coli Krasic explained a legal argument just before, which is why amendments should be accepted to the article. 10th and 11th, and this Article 12, because it is truly abnormal for the republican authorities to be completely excluded from this process. I can understand that you wanted to write in this law that two ministers, Mr Dulic and Mr Mr Mrkonjic, from two sister parties, will brotherly build social apartments at 500 euros in Vojvodina. If so, it is perfectly understandable that the future Prime Minister of Vojvodina, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, controls them. I remind both you and the citizens of Serbia that Mr Pajtic manages the funds of the Capital Investment Fund in Vojvodina without being controlled by the authorities of Vojvodina, nor what is saddened most, is not controlled by Finance Minister Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, and it is billions of dinars of Serbian citizens' funds, not only Vojvodina. That's why, Mr. Bradic, I urge you to accept this amendment to the DSS and remove this nonsense from the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31959	The word is from Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31960	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as these previous two members, the SRS also believes that this member should also be deleted and that none of the jobs envisaged here should be entrusted to the province's authorities in the area of housing. The reasons are multiple. It would be very nice to hear from the government what a concept it is after all of this for the implementation of this law on social housing in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, given that it is dominantly entrusted to local self-government units, that there is no mention of the province's institutions or the regional level of regulation of this area at any point. It would be nice to hear something from the government's representatives and about it. But as everything is arranged and in what way we've tried to describe the arguments so far, so is this. On the other hand, what is the attitude of the province's authorities towards the business and sphere of housing could you see on television the other day, where a woman of 30 years of employment is a resident of an open garage of emergency assistance in Novi Sad, and then in response to all this pi-ar and the same emergency aid says that Vojvodina is not in a position to deal with housing affairs, i.e. no funds, no money, and that such fate is shared by 300 workers of that institution. It seems to us, and we're going to do it on purpose, that the arguments are indeed left by those who are supposed to bring them out today, and what they used to justify both the defenses and this document is more than degutant. Here this law and this statute have been brought into connection with decentralisation, so-called decentralisation. decentralisation, brought into contact with the fact that there's no money from access funds unless this is implemented, which is really not true. We would like you to tell us who is cheating on us – you who are promoting this secessionist act or the EU, which boasts that by 2013 it has provided a billion and 300m euros from pre-accession funds for Serbia. Some of these funds are objectively spent in Serbia through various programmes, but in this context it is interesting to mention something else – that, in parallel with data on spent funds from pre-accession funds for Serbia, there are also money spent through pre-accession funds in Kosovo's territory. Not Kosovo and Metohija in accordance with Resolution 1244, but Kosovo. And if you associate this document with pre-accession funds, it can be brought into a relationship in the most cumbersome way by assuming, God forbid, that since 2013, Kosovo will also stand autonomous, that is, the province of Vojvodina and that, separately with Kosovo and for Vojvodina, God forbid, it will separate funds from pre-accession funds, and for those of your unfortunate and unattainable European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31961	One minute and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31962	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, here I have, in front of the SRS, tabled an amendment to Article 13 in order to completely erase the title above Article 13 because it says the word "agriculture". You remember that we brought in May the amendments and additions to the Agricultural Community Act and this is one turning point or hint of this separatist statute of the AP Vojvodina. In fact, this article 13 has seven views. When we look at the Law on Agricultural Land or on the lease of agricultural land, 40% of the total sum goes to the municipality or the city, 30% to the province and 30% to the Republic of Serbia. If we just read the second point that says: “AP Vojvodina is making use of agricultural land in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in accordance with the law and prescribes the terms and conditions of the distribution of those funds. ” That normally now applies to their 30%. However, paragraph 3 states: "It educates the specific budget, funds or other forms of organisation to which the funds referred under point 2) of this Article are directed." I say responsibly, those 40% that will remain in the municipality plus 30% of the province, and I say that 30% of what the Republic has been belonging to the lease of state agricultural land since next year or after the adoption of this Constitution will no longer go safely into the register of the Republic of Serbia. Absolutely, this article 13 is cut off with all that we have brought so far, and it was about the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the Democratic Party will not stop here, unfortunately, you will not accept the truth that is before you that this is a separatist statute, but the SRS position is clear, we will vote against this statute of the AP Vojvodina and against the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Now, in the next article 14, since I'm already taking time from the parliamentary group, in fact, from the part from which there is little left, I'm going to say a lot about Article 14, which is connected to Article 13. The amendments to the SRS were to be accepted absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31963	A minute has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31964	The President-in-Office, it is really hard to understand how it can be claimed that something is separatist if it is in accordance with the law passed by the Serbian Parliament. So, what is disputed in this position is that the funds from the use of agricultural land in the territory of the AP Vojvodina are in accordance with the law, so the law is passed by the Serbian Parliament and prescribed by which part of the funds goes to local self-government, which part goes to the province, which part goes to the Republic. Point 3) states that a specific budget, funds or other forms of organisation is being educated to target the funds referred to in point 2) of this law, which means the funds defined by the Republic law and the way in which it determines which part of these funds goes to which level of management. So I really don't know how anyone can say there's anything separatist about it. On the contrary, it is only logical that the local self-government, i.e. an autonomous province, can best distribute these funds to ensure the basic function of the principle of decentralisation, which is a balanced regional development and a balanced development of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31965	A minute and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 19 MPs of the "DSS – Vojislav Kostunica" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31966	You, Mrs. Hope Kolundji, are defending something that is indefensible. So you've caught a phrase that says in each article that something will be in accordance with the law. Whether that law will be, whether it has, when it will be brought, what it will look like absolutely no one here can give any valid information, and neither can you. What happens in the meantime, we'll see. The Separatist intention of those who wrote this is seen in agriculture right now. Do you know why? Because yesterday I asked Minister Dragin one question, in line with the amendment that we tabled on this article – will the agrarian policy in Vojvodina be conducted in line with national agrarian policy, with the strategy for the development of agriculture and rural development? I didn't get a decadent answer. So, if you don't accept this amendment, where they are in Article 1, that's the DSS amendment, to measure the agrarian policy that will be implemented and the rural development measures will be in line with the agricultural policy and strategy of the development of Serbia's agriculture, then what are we talking about here? All governments, both after 2000 and before 2000, have always had this sensitivity to generally elect people from the Vojvodina area for ministers. It's perfectly natural, because it's the Duke's area, the region with the most intense agricultural production. It was also a reflection of the state's relationship to agriculture. What's going on now? The republic is now being dissipated, the Minister of Vojvodina remains, and we do not know what kind of agrarian policy will be led, or agrarian policy to be led, will probably not be in line with national policy. When I say this is a separatist act, I say it for the next reason, because there's no point here. The essence, dear citizens, and especially the agricultural producers you are looking at, is that the 2009 agricultural budget is 25% lower than the 2008 agricultural budget, so it is further reduced from 22 billion to 16 billion, so the 4.5 billion-billion-dollar fund has already been spent in advance, by paying subsidies, therefore eating matter, because this fund has been filling up since the repayment of loans made during the past period to agricultural producers. So we have serious problems in the agrarian. The branch that makes the import and export surplus of $600 million, and our farmers, farmers, are the ones who pay the price, or they are not satisfied and the state does not invest as much as it should. This torment is common in Nis, and in Novi Sad, and in Subotica, and in Piroth, and in Užica. The steam's gone, it's getting smaller, everything's breaking over the back of the agricultural producer, and you want to make this an additional administration that's going to live off these peasants. It's a shame, it has nothing to do with decentralisation, it has nothing to do with the efficiency of the system, it has nothing to do with rationalization. So I say, this act, even in the presence of Mrs. Komic, is a separatist act.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31967	From the time of the parliamentary group, a minute and 30 seconds have been used. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and the People's Messenger Ratko Vlatkovic, and the People's Messenger, Nada Kolundzija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31968	I'm wasting my time on an authorised representative of the SRS. Mrs. Kolundjia is always an extremely inspiring talker to me. Mrs. Kolundjia, when you look at the member we're on right now, you can't say that these seven points are questions from areas that are subject to the regulation of the province's autonomy. You can see that at the end of this article, there is no second position, where these jobs are said to be transferred as trusted state-owned asses, and point 1 to point 7 is all that is already regulated by the republican regulations concerning agricultural land. Look at the mangoup at work. Now you're trying to tell us that all these questions from points 1 to 7 are something that can be the subject of the province's autonomy that belongs to the citizens. But these are the questions already contained by our agricultural law. You didn't put an attitude 2, that they trusted the authorities of an autonomous province, as trusted businesses. You see what kind of confusion is being made in the text that you represent here. So, it goes with synonyms, goes with descriptions, not neck, but neck, and the conclusion is the only one that imposes, when these two of your proposals are read, is only one -- who votes for this law, who votes for a decision on granting consent to the province's statutes, he advocates Serbia as Belgrade Pasaluk. You have to understand that. By means of your means, I prove to you your basic intention, your goal, your outcome and the result that can be achieved on the basis of such draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31969	A minute and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31970	Thank you, Madam Vice President. If analyzed or simply read Article 13. The bill of law, I don't know in any word whether you can sense any tendency of separatism. This is just grotesque to say something like that. What is secessionism about? In that an autonomous province, through its authorities, in the area of agriculture and rural development, in accordance with the law, establishes a forecasting service, proposes to the competent ministry the conditions of imports and exports of certain agricultural products, brings, implements and monitors the measures of agrarian policy and rural development measures, etc., but all in accordance with the law. (Zoran Nikolic, from the place: What law? What law? A law that is passed and can only be passed by the Republic of Serbia. So we have currently in our legal system a whole series of laws in the area of agriculture and rural development and this whole set of laws is Parliament's passed in this meeting. As far as amendments to the MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica's MPs are concerned, the amendment goes to a reduction of jurisdiction in the area of agriculture, with the amendment proposing four responsibilities, instead of seven, to measure agrarian policies and rural development measures, being realised, in line with the strategy for the development of Serbia's agriculture. The strategy is an act of executive, i.e. executive, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The strategy is adopted by the Government. It is a lower legal rank compared to the law, as envisioned by the bill. For these reasons, I propose that the amendment should not be accepted, i.e. I believe that the solution given in the draft law is more comprehensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31971	Two minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31972	The President-in-Office, I don't know who is inspiring to whom, but I might be, perhaps, even the citizens would be more pleased if qualifications, heavy political qualifications, which are referred to at least some arguments were supported and if the adoption of the Constitution, which provided for decentralisation and territorial autonomy of the AP Vojvodina, were the problem those who claimed to be the most responsible for the adoption of the provisions of the Constitution, especially when it comes to the issues of Vojvodina autonomy. But I do know that Serbia has really threatened to come down to Belgrade's pasture with a policy represented by those who now claim that this implementation of the Constitution is dangerous by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31973	Since the time of the Parliament Group president, a minute has been used. National MP Zoran Nikolic and MP Zoran Krasic and MP Miroslav Petkovic were reported. All three future speakers will use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go. Do you want to use MEP time? [[Zoran Nikolic, from the place: I want a right to replication.]] (Zoran Nikolic: I do not want to use the time of the parliamentary group. Our time is precious. ) Please sign in just once. If you press the application key consecutively, this results in you not being included and not being transferred. (Zoran Nikolic: I will not use the time of the parliamentary group. ) So you do not want to use the time of the parliamentary group. Do you want to say that with the microphone on? (Zoran Nikolic: No. ) National MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31974	Mrs. Hope Kolundji bit me in the heart. I was looking for a replica, but if you give me a replica, I would answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31975	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31976	I need you to let us know that the replica has been lifted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31977	There was no basis for replication. You have the time at your disposal of the president of the parliamentary group and the time at your disposal of the parliamentary groups. You don't want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31978	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31979	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs to the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31980	In front of our parliamentary group, we wanted to challenge the right of the AP and the authorities of the AP to bring a strategy for the development of agriculture only for the Vojvodina area, as well as measures for agrarian policy and rural development measures. This is in Article 34 of the Statute, which we discussed yesterday, that is point 5, clearly stands - brings a strategy for the development of agriculture, forestry, water industry, economy and other areas of the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Just on the basis of what they stand for, as far as I can see, and the MPs of the DS, that something regulated by the Republic's laws should apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, I will remind you that in early May, we adopted the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and that is the law that regulated the adoption of a strategy for the development of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia, the National Programme for Agriculture and the National Rural Development Programme. It is precisely because of the citizens that I will read what agricultural policy and rural development policy of the Republic means. It covers measures and activities undertaken by the competent authorities to strengthen the competitiveness of agricultural products on the market, to provide quality health correct food, to provide support to the standard of living for farmers who cannot by their production provide economic viability on the market, to provide support for rural development, to protect the environment from the negative impact of agricultural production. The agricultural policy and rural development policy of the Republic of Serbia is being implemented through the implementation of the Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development of the Republic of Serbia, the National Programme for Agriculture, the National Rural Development Programme. The strategy of agriculture and rural development of the Republic of Serbia, that is, in Article 4 of that law, determines the long-term development of agriculture and this creates a market economy, increases the profitability of Serbia's agriculture and concerns about rural development. The strategy for agriculture and rural development of the Republic of Serbia is in line with the strategic documents of the Republic of Serbia. The strategy brings the government to the ministry's proposal for a period of at least ten years. Gentlemen, if we have established such a law a few months ago, where it is clearly defined what the agricultural development strategy implies, to refer to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, what is the point of giving AP authorities the right to bring some kind of strategy? Can you tell what in this strategy can be and what elements more than are defined here in the framework of agricultural policy and rural development policy for the entire region of the Republic of Serbia or the elements defined for the agricultural development strategy? No, there is nothing but simply meeting some political structures and requirements to restore some specificity and personality of agricultural production in the AP Vojvodina. Gentlemen, there is no specificity or personality. There, agricultural producers find it extremely difficult to live, extremely difficult to repair and have the same problems as agricultural producers in the second part of the Republic of Serbia. It is particularly absurd, I would like to ask any of you here to explain in more detail the point of the 7th term of this article, which reads: "The AP are proposing to the competent ministry the conditions of exports and imports of certain agricultural products". Explain to me what it means, whether it means that the AP authorities will ban someone from importing something or exporting a agricultural product if I do not know for what reasons whether the surplus or deficit is on the market or some economic powermaker, the owner of some dairy or slaughterhouse, or I don't know, wants to import something, and on the other hand a system of total agricultural production in the Republic of Serbia can be violated. This is absurd, and we have just proposed that point 1 and point 7 of this article be deleted, because neither are they in line with the constitutional provisions of Article 183 on the transfer of jurisdiction in the area of agriculture nor are they well-intentioned, nor are they necessary for agricultural producers in the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31981	Three minutes and 30 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31982	Dear President, I think this debate would be more correct if we talked about what it says, not what it says in this law. In this law, in Article 13(1), which is required by the amendment, it does not say anywhere, it cannot even be interpreted that the AP Vojvodina is bringing a strategy for agricultural development. It only brings and implements measures under the strategy adopted by the Republic of Serbia. I don't really know what someone can say about this -- these measures have the right and bring local self-government. Therefore, local self-government within the framework of strategies established at the level of the Republic of Serbia is also taking steps to implement the rural development policy. That's the first thing. The second thing, at point 7, of the same article that is required to delete, I don't know how any word "proposes" can interpret as imperative or as something to order, determine or order the ministry to do. Here is a very carefully selected word that, in the context of achieving agricultural development in the AP Vojvodina, it can propose to the Ministry of Export Conditions that would correspond to the AP. So he proposes, and by doing so, he absolutely does not commit or exclude other parts of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31983	Two minutes has been used since the time of the president of the parliamentary group. People's MPs Zoran Mašić and Zoran Nikolic spoke. They're using MPs' time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31984	Mrs. Kolundjia doesn't listen to what I'm saying. I said clearly that the statute we discussed yesterday was defined as the authority of the AP Assembly to bring forward a strategy for the development of agriculture, forestry, water economy, economy and other areas. In that context, I was talking and I think point one doesn't make sense if we have one farming development strategy for the whole country, then that's enough. Now do you want to hear and accept it, you continue to insist on your perception and reading and, on the other hand, it's also funny what you're explaining, what it says in point 7 - suggests, so whether it's going to suggest or not. If you think it's a dilemma, then don't even suggest it stands like that, but delete it or find something more appropriate. Make it clear that you're going to ask him to have the right to influence directly. If you think that's better, or if you don't think it should stand, then delete, just like we suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31985	One minute and 10 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. MP Zoran Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31986	This is a great example. Mrs. Kolundjia, I know it's not easy for you, but you've been assigned to sit here and defend something that's indefensible. So now you're facing direct evidence. You're trying to fool the public, to say that it's not in the law that this is about strategy, it's about measures of agrarian policy. We have submitted an amendment to ensure that these agricultural policy measures are in line with the strategy adopted by the RS, and you say that it does not write, but in the first position it says it will be in accordance with the law. The Law on Agriculture and Rural Development states, and what is additionally burdensome for you and which gives us the right to say that this is about separatistism and separatist intentions is a member of the 34th Statute, which says the AP Vojvodina brings a strategy for the development of agriculture. Now, if there are going to be two strategies of agrarian policy, then it's quite clear. You claim it won't be, but when you compare the statutes and compare the law, you can see that's how it's going to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31987	A minute used by the MP's group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. The time of the president of the parliamentary group has been used, so it uses the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31988	In the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, in a work that has a subtitle - Legal and other acts of the AP Vojvodina, Article 19 - AP Vojvodina, through its bodies, adopts the following legal acts: Statutes as the highest legal act, province and assembly decisions, provinceal regulations, decisions, declarations, resolutions, rules, rules, instructions, orders, solutions, recommendations and other acts, lower than what is the statute. The highest act the province adopts is the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, with the previous consent of the RS Assembly. When it comes to the jurisdiction of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, it is said that it adopts statutes, province and assembly decisions, assembly resolutions, declarations, recommendations, conclusions and other acts, it establishes the basis of policies at the level of the AP Vojvodina, controls etc. over the work of your organs. When it comes to agriculture, he says this -- he brings up a strategy for the development of agriculture, forestry, water industry, economy and other areas within the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. So, from the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. If the law governing jurisdiction has prescribed what jurisdiction is, then only within that jurisdiction can it adopt strategies. Therefore, any municipality may, in accordance with the law and the powers entrusted to it by law, adopt its own development strategies, which does not mean that it assumes the State's competences, nor does it mean that these strategies are contrary to the country's strategy in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31989	A minute and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from MP Zoran Masic, who uses the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31990	With all due respect to Mrs. Colundji, I must say she's really unwise to defend something she can't defend. Mrs. Kolundjia, we're discussing the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. At point 1 of Article 13, it stands - bringing, implementing and overseeing the measures of agrarian rural development policy. So, he brings in, implements the measures of the Agricultural and Rural Development Act. I've read what they mean and they've been brought in for the entire RS area. Now you're saying that the statute makes some kind of development strategy just for areas within the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Exactly what it says in point 1, where we suggested that it be deleted, because we don't think it should be brought in or carried out, or supervised, because we have a single agrarian policy and development strategy for the whole country adopted in 2005.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31991	A minute used by the MP's group. The word is from the People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31992	I am truly sorry, but cities and local self-government are also taking the same measures within the framework of the state strategy and within the framework of the laws and competences adopted by these laws. I'm sorry, but it's just like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31993	Fifteen seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, a group of 19 MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica and the MP Milorad Krstin submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Nado Kolundjia, I have not submitted an amendment to Article 13 because of you to delete it, because you brought it here. We were early, 80s, Shogorov and Kmezic. Now all we have is a Pitch. As one journalist wrote -- a historic agreement by Cvetkovic-Chanak. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. No, no, no, You have a majority of 120 MPs in the province's parliament. You don't need Canak or the Union of the Dukes of Hungarians or the League of Social Democrats of the Vojvodina. I'll prove it to you. You brought it here, you brought it from the DS, and you had to give it to them because you needed it here in the Republic Parliament. What are you talking about? In Article 14, I prove to you, says the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities and areas of use of agricultural land according to the law, resolves by appeal against the solutions of the municipal, or city administration on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. It solved any problems that occur in the lease of agricultural land, for example, by the Ministry of Agriculture. If the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management, Serbia's forestry considers that the lease of agricultural land is not in line with the Agricultural Land Act, it simply interrupts it. There's no sale. Now this will be taken over by you, the Novi Sad and the AP Vojvodina, the future state. We haven't arranged our country yet, we don't know the borders, and we have another state you'll be making since Monday. You who have been courting those who have been destroying us for years. You will now hold the letter for us, did we correctly say that Article 13, the title above Article 13. You heard from Mr. Nikolic. You heard what you were doing. Now I have proved to you that the continuation of this separatist statute and this law leads only to a new state. You're slowly taking over all the information from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. It's not true you're not taking over. You're taking over, but you're putting in a little bit of detail here and you think the people are going to swallow it, in fact, that the MPs are going to get over it so easily. Every material we do studioically and with teams that help, unfortunately you don't have. You have a team in the province called Pajtic. Why don't you send a financial inspection service once we see what's going on with the New Sad Development Fund and then on agriculture. You can't. You're not powerful, you've got a man breaking the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31995	The minute was used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic has the word, and then the People's Messenger, Nada Kolundzija, and then the Messenger Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31996	Although I was entitled to a replica because Mr. Krstin mentioned me, but I know I'm not going to get it. We suggest that article 14 be deleted. A very similar argument is as when we talked about Article 12, related to spatial planning, regional development and building facilities. Absolutely, the agriculture ministry is being seized and we will not have the same, identical procedure in the entire territory of Serbia. So, I come from Capca, I can't just say Swords, because the Sword is mostly not, but an extremely agricultural area. You have a strong agricultural producer who needs to borrow land. They'll take somewhere in the Woodland and take somewhere in Vojvodina and there'll be a dispute. He will receive one instruction and the problem will be resolved through a decision by the Ministry of Agriculture, what is in Šumadia, and the question is how will it be resolved in the AP Vojvodina. That's what's problematic here. So, simply, you're making it out of this country, from the citizens of this country to the citizens of first and second order. That's what this is about. We're taking over the intel. The question arises: Since Vojvodina is the space with the most intense agricultural production, then what will the Ministry of Agriculture serve? What will be the Ministry of Agriculture's intelligence? Which territory will they refer to? In the territory of the Pyrots, the Forests? And absolutely all the information will be taken by a newly-soldic administration who will now have the need to hire an additional person, so that he can additionally burden himself and stand on the hillbilly's back.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31997	The word is a folk letter from Hope Kolundzija, followed by the MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31998	The Honorable Chairman, of all things Mr. Krstin said, is only true that we have a majority in the AP Vojvodina Assembly, as we have most of the Republic of Serbia, which is a confirmation that citizens support our policy on applying the Constitution and achieving the autonomy of the Vojvodina. So that's right. What I want to say is, on the question that in different situations some dispute will be resolved, whether it is in Vojvodina or in another part of Serbia -- it will be settled by law, both in one place and in another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u31999	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. MP Vlatko Ratkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32000	So one, this term has two attitudes. The first point is that the AP Vojvodina, through its authorities in the area of use of agricultural land in accordance with the law, resolves by appeal against solutions of the municipal or city administration on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The second attitude is that the dealings of Article 1 are done as trusted. Article 178. The constitution says the Republic of Serbia can legally trust autonomous provinces and units of local self-government with certain issues of its jurisdiction. It's about the aspect of this member's constitutionality. As far as overallity is concerned, I believe that the solution given in the bill is such that it provides a more efficient and faster solution to the disputes that arise or which may arise in the area of agricultural land use. This does not mean that one who is unhappy with the resolution of the second-degree body, in a concrete case, of the AP Vojvodina, always has the opportunity to launch a administrative dispute under the Law on Administrative Disputes before the Serbian Supreme Court. Speaking of the efficiency of the administration, I will remind you that the province's executive administration, as it is called, has resolved 97% of the cases within the legal deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32001	A minute and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used. Anyone else want a word? The People's MP Milorad Krstin uses the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32002	I don't have the right to a replica? Why? I was mentioned by name and last name?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32003	You have no right. Do you want to use MEP time?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32004	I'll use it. I wanted to explain this situation. So my amendment to Articles 13 and 14 clearly states that in 2010, you, the Democratic Party, will already take over in 2010 the information belonging to the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry. That's obvious. This is an example from agriculture. That's what your colleagues told you. You can defend yourself as much as you want, but this is evident and this is what makes this law that we are now talking about and to whom amendments and the new statutes of the province of Vojvodina have been submitted – makes it separatist. I said -- if we don't have a state of Serbia with clear borders, we're building another state in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32005	One minute has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. He's using the MP's time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32006	I fully understand and respect the argument of anyone who believes that this state should be governed by the principles of someone else. But the Constitution said that this state is governed by these principles. So I can say that there are those who think that unitary strict centralist states are still something that can work and be effective in the modern world. It is my deep confidence and confidence of the Democratic Party – that only a decentralised government can provide even regional development and can ensure the country's accelerated development. That's where we differ, and I accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32007	It's been used 50 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, using the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32008	I will as soon as possible comment on the unitarian or centralist approach advocated by the Democratic Party. Why is this approach different at the level of businesses, companies, and completely different at the level of the state, at the world and internal level? It is heard, for example, from the largest national company Telecom, and let's start with companies, let's say, NIS and all others, where total centralised procurement of spending, decision-making is carried out, and for reasons of efficient use and location of the funds available to companies. Why in the country, when we pass such laws, have a different approach, let the authors of this statute and the law establishing jurisdiction answer. I'm sure the citizens will know how to answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32009	It was used one minute from the MP's group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs of the Progressive Serb group submitted to the title above Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Zoran Mašić, and the Messenger of the people Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32010	I would like to point out the absurdity of the consideration and the amendments that we give and the arguments that the representatives of the government, i.e. The mandated promoter shall be given. The amendment only meant erasing the word "veterinary" without absolutely touching the essence of what was defined by this article. To be specific to the end, I have proposed this amendment, first of all, as a graduate veterinarian and a doctor of veterinary science, the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture who, I suppose, will understand also knows the Veterinary Act. I am sorry that there are no colleagues of Miša Marinkovic, my colleague from the Democratic Party, to at least confirm that I am right about what is stated in the context of the reasons for this amendment, that in these eight points, as listed in this Article 15, there is nothing in the veterinary field and I do not see then the sense that it should stand above Article 15 "Stort and Veterinary", but should stand only "Stochkeeping". This is exactly for vets and cattlemen. In the time I have, I'll try to read it quickly, so that's exactly what the public thinks whether I'm right or wrong. So, it says here that the AP Vojvodina through its authorities in the field of livestock and veterinary, in accordance with the law, adopts a long-term programme of measures to implement the breeding programme for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the unique programme of the Republic of Serbia. The provision of the Law on cattle farming: ‘It educates the scientific and professional advice on livestock farming’. The provision of the Law on cattle farming: ‘It brings an annual programme of measures for the implementation of the breeding programme’. Provision of the Law on livestock: "It gives consent to use in the reproduction of quality breeding cattle and... for the territory of the AP’. The provision of the Law on cattle farming: ‘It lays down the fulfilment of the conditions of work on the selection of livestock in the territory of the AP’. The provision of the Law on cattle production: ‘It provides for an authorised breeding organisation in the territory of the AP Vojvodina for the management of the selection in livestock production’. I guess this is also a provision in the Law on cattle farming: "It gives consent to authorised breeding organisations on trust in the control of production in livestock. Last item, eight: "Accept and process documentation for the allocation of incentives and other funds from the budget in the livestock sector". Is there a basis for this amendment, does it have a basis to be accepted? The Proposer gives an explanation – the amendment is not accepted because the solutions in the draft law are more precise and celery in accordance with the Constitution and the system solutions in the area in question. You insult our common sense and our common sense, if there was a basis for anything to be accepted, then it was the basis for accepting this technical correction. You're not ready to accept that either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32011	One minute and 15 seconds of the Parliament's time spent. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic, who wants the word. Here you go. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32012	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15 to delete article 15. I'll just be brief. Article 13 states in paragraph 5 – takes over the founding rights of agricultural services based on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. What does that mean? What will the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry do to us? This article should therefore be deleted. At any given finding, this proposal lays down the jurisdiction and statutes of the separatist DSse. These are the facts. Mrs. Hope Kolundji just said that it's true that they have a majority in the province and that it's true that they have a majority here. Mrs. Kolundjia, this law on determining jurisdiction and this statute is the price of the majority, and our citizens need to know that. That's why DS and Boris Tadic rocked Nenad Canka and those minor political parties that mean absolutely nothing on Serbia's political scene. We've all had opportunities to see unambiguous and clear views on Tuesday here Nenada Chanka for who knows which time. The man openly said here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia – that he would ask himself not to be the statute of the Vojvodina but the constitution of the Vojvodina. Printed a man's calendar where the Sabbath is in Vojvodina. You printed out a passport man, and I have to say, Mrs. Komic, at some point you chaired and didn't warn him, but that's why the previous two days are probably brutal behavior, disrespect for the Rules of Procedure and punishment of the MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32013	People's MP, I warn you not to violate Article 104 that you are not false and that you are sticking to the agenda. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Statute of the Vojvodina and the law on the transfer of jurisdiction is in fact the DS and Boris Tadic racket. In the presidential elections and in the 11 May elections, you yourself said, Mrs Kolundzija, about most of them and especially here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I have to remind you. Is it true that everything I said about Nenad Chanka and that his views are absolutely clear, primarily separatist? The fact that we're not being able to speak our mind...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32015	National MP, for the second time, I warn you that it is inadmissible, using the right to discuss the search, to abuse the parliamentary right to a political stance, you are falsely not allowed to speak of your political views. I'm not going into whether you understand or not how serious it is for the state of Serbia, the National Assembly as an institution in the state of Serbia. Please don't do this with another warning because the damage you're doing, except it's a lie, is a pity for an institution in general. Go ahead if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32016	I'd like to ask you, Mrs. Comic, for a minute, you've been talking to me, if you want to be correct, if you don't count that time at the time I've been putting out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32017	National MP, in no event when I was obliged to apply Article 27 and apply Article 101, gave instructions and interrupted MPs, no MP had ever been denied during the time available to him by the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to talk more? Yeah. ) Please sign in if you want. I'll give you my word, just to tell you, since it was on the screen that time was spent for four minutes and 33 seconds, of which is two minutes at your disposal as an amendment applicant, and of the two minutes and 33 seconds we've all seen, the minute has been used since the time of the parliamentary group. So now you continue to use the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32018	At the very end, I would like to thank all the citizens who have sent a very large number of letters in the last two days, calls and messages to the MPs of the SRS for supporting us in our intention to prove what the ruling coalition wants with this Statute of Vojvodina is going to do to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32019	It's been used 25 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32020	The President-in-Office, the reasons set out as an explanation for the amendment requiring the abolition of Article 15, is absolutely nowhere in Article 15. Therefore, Article 15 of the Law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina does not contain any founding rights anywhere. So it's absolutely not the content of this amendment. I suppose it's also logical that this amendment has been rejected because the reasons why you're looking for an abolition have nothing to do with the content. Whoever he's holding in his lap, it's a special topic now, and as far as DS is concerned, the DS is holding in the wings of all the citizens of this country, and what your wings and your escapes are about is something that you need to imagine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32021	Anyone else want a word? National MP Zoran Krasic is looking for a replica. You have no right to a replica. MP Dobrislav Prelic, do you want to use the time of the parliamentary group? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? MP Velimir Ilic wants a word. National MP Velimir Ilic is at his disposal the total time of the parliamentary group president and two minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32022	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, makes me feel offended and hurt, as many citizens of Serbia, when I hear an opinion like this from the head of the ZES parliamentary group. The SRS officer said exactly, he mentioned a prenup that's holding in his lap, and the lady said we're all in the DS wing, which is not true. I don't know any from New Serbia who would agree to be in that wing, and neither do I personally as a citizen, nor many citizens throughout Serbia. Therefore, this is an insult to both MPs and many Serbian citizens. Turns out we're some kind of stepmom, so they're keeping us in the wings. So I understood, I may have misunderstood, I don't know, but very incorrectly from Mrs. Kolundjia. It's not nice to talk to each other like that. There are amendments here that have been submitted and that are very precise that an extremely harmful law, a harmful law for Serbia, is being corrected. Be happy that the opposition has accepted in the final solution that something that is extremely harmful, unquality repairs and advocates and is extremely trying to fix it. However, you blanco refuse, you do not want any corrections. You're acting so sovereignly, so you're doing it, you're pushing this story to the end, but the shame is, look, parliament is empty. People let you do this all the way, MPs let you go. The people are extremely concerned about all this, and the citizens of Vojvodina, and the citizens of Serbia. Here we listen to some leaders, some of the minor parties who want to, who ask for some parties, some MPs to be banned. He wants us to be eliminated, to be erased from existence, that no one can oppose anyone verbally, to express his views, his opinion. It's a democracy we've fought for our whole lives. Don't tell another hollow story that doesn't drink water. You're for European Serbia, and we're not. We are more than you are for European Serbia. Look at Germany, it unites. People are erasing borders, and you're sharing more and more divisions. It's a shame, yesterday I was in Kosovo, in Leposavic I saw such a situation, so divided among Serbs. Imagine, a citizen opens a calendar that is shared there by leaders of the ruling coalition and in the five-euro schedule. That's humiliating. They brought it and showed it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32023	People's MP, please bring the calendar, European integration, leaders, to everything in connection with the amendment that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32024	Just a moment, please, we want to fix something, help as much as we can, but you're about irreparable. It's not worth it, you can't go on a remont, you can't go on repairs. You need to leave in a package. It's incorrigible, it has to be recycled, you understand. So he can't. So I'm very sorry. (President: People's Parliament, I remind you of Article 103, which speaks of the obligation of the Members of the People to speak about the agenda, applies to all of us. All that you've been exposed to in three minutes, please contact the amendment to Article 15, which is to delete that member. Please. Madam Chairman, it was very ugly for me when we listened to that veterinary doctor. The man defended the amendment completely justified, that technically something should be fixed and done, of course, you will by no means accept it. The men of the profession are suggesting something. Here we have our wise men and know-it-alls. They understand everything, and in the wind, the agriculture, and all the living, whatever comes, the Constitution. Yesterday we listened to laymen interpreting the constitution, constitutional law. I can't figure it out. We don't need any more institutions. We need you. What do we need the Constitutional Court for? Mrs. Hope Kolundji interpreted the Constitution in her own way yesterday. Here she taught us a lesson in replicas, etc. Why do we need the Constitutional Court? It's sad to listen to people from the profession who are extremely trying to get something in order, however, because tomorrow it's going to produce thousands of new problems. We will have big problems and I am very sorry after this session, Serbia will get a thousand new problems. You'll see this transfer of jurisdiction, double public enterprises, simply, it's technically impossible. God can't try and get us in line. Therefore, Serbia is in big trouble, and we make new problems every day. Instead of solving them, to analyze them, to bring them into order, instead of being united by this people in this agony that has hit Serbia at this moment, it is increasingly dividing, increasingly uniting, chicanizing, rejecting. It's a very ugly attitude towards individual MPs, as soon as they open your mouth, you come at them immediately. Please be nice, if we can ever use time, so let the people judge. Maybe we're talking nonsense. Maybe we're saying something the people don't want to hear and he's going to say -- God save me from these people who say it. But it's the other way around. You cut us right off, you don't give, you correct, you cover us up, and so on. So let the debate open up a little bit. Let's have some controversy, let's make a little argument. (President: National MP, I now warn you of Article 103. A Rules of Procedure that binds both me and you. He says clearly that the MP is obliged to talk about the agenda with full respect and understanding. Please, the amendment that you called to discuss - the title above the article15. and Article 15 is deleted. All that stuff you said about getting in touch with the amendments, please. ) It needs to be deleted. It's smarter to wipe than to make trouble with the existing law, as you suggest. I can't figure it out, you guys want so much jurisdiction to pass on. You are so dissipating the government of the Republic of Serbia. You're dissipating public enterprises. You're making so much of a double administration, and we'll talk about it tomorrow, that it's still a massive administration, that it's a common state, etc. So, I'm really asking you to listen to me. Come to your senses. Listen up. Sometimes it's hard to listen to the truth, but what are you going to do in such a place? Come to your senses. Reason has to win. Don't get too familiar with livestock and veterinary now, better than the people who are extremely professional here. If a man legitimateizes himself as a doctor of science who suggests something very practical, and says that this member needs to be deleted, because he's going to cause thousands of problems, think about it a little bit. At least let him make his arguments, not immediately cut, say he can't and is not allowed. Therefore, God help you with this law. But believe me, this is not good and what you're refusing to smooth all these amendments and it's not good. We're simply going to make this House a series of unpleasant things. There was an inconvenience yesterday. Imagine when one MP, a very serious MP, one lady, if it were me, or someone else, might be watching us differently, but one lady, a serious mother, comes and reacts to something, to some injustice. So don't say that, please. Understand yourself and listen a little, but there are very few of us left here from the opposition. If we have to, we'll go out, so be alone. Push all this through. You'll end this today, vote Monday, and by Tuesday there will be a million new problems. You'll see how it all works.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32025	Seven minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word of the peoples is Ambassador Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32026	Thank you. Mr. Minister, pay attention to my exposure to this Article 15 regarding livestock and veterinary matters. I get the impression you'll understand some things. It's just fascinating how Mrs. Nada Kolundzija defends the law, the Constitution, how here the arguments made by the MPs who point to the separatist spirit of these measures, she successfully defends the laws, by not calling on these laws by the Constitution, and yet not calling for concrete members. Indeed, and that is the point now, and which the minister will understand, I really admire how you really know these laws, how you perceive constitutional matter. A man just can't know history, but Marxism, it just has to be known. This is my appeal to the Casation Court, which is due to propose five other members of the Constitutional Court, to propose to Mrs. Nada Kolundji as a member of the Constitutional Court. I think that the role of that Constitutional Court judge would be very nice to you and I think that, in fact, then we have absolutely no reason to worry about the constitutionality and legality of this law, because the fact that you have a majority in the province's parliament is also an evident fact that you have a majority in this House. I absolutely have no doubt that when you are elected member of the Constitutional Court, you will be elected by the will of the majority of this House to the President of the Court of Justice, or the Constitutional Court. I thus tell all MPs and citizens that absolutely in the wings of the DS and the Constitutional Court, the head of which will be an independent expert on constitutional law, Mrs. Hope Kolundji, can sleep peacefully. You don't pretend to be a country in the state, and these aren't separatist acts. This was the case in the "Virious Summer" of 1968, and so it was in the treacherous winter of 2009, in the country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32027	Twenty-five seconds of time used by the parliamentary group, with a reminder to the MP that we are all obliged to respect Article 103 for the future and to talk about the subject of the agenda. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32028	The Honorable Chairman, and always in despair for lack of arguments, is reaching for disqualification. I remind you that all 250 MPs here speak about all topics and have the same right to discuss topics that are on the agenda. Who is the measure of whose knowledge and intelligence, and how can they measure other people's knowledge and intelligence? I think it's limited by his own knowledge and his own effort and his desire to figure out how much someone else can know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32029	The time of 45 seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? The title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and, of course, respected citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted the amendment -- to the title above Article 16 and Article 16 to be deleted. If I could and I had to explain in one sentence why I made the title and Article 16 be deleted, those who understand and who are experts in that legal part, in Serbia, and there are many, because they appear every day these days when we discuss this topic, it would read, simply in one sentence - it is about the Constitution and they would all be satisfied and understood. The bill is contrary to Article 1, 2, 4, 8, 9, 179, 182, 183, 185. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Those who feel it and know it, and this is Serbia's legal professional public, especially people who are professional and live in Vojvodina, will give me the right to explain this amendment. We of the SRS believe that the problem of the water industry needs to be addressed at the republican level. This article speaks of water economy as one part of this bill. You will see that, as a secondary consequence of all that will happen, will be the unprecedented collapse of integrity, credibility, dignity and reputation of the Voivodine Water as unserious, unsupervised, and likely dissociation of a divided institution that cares about very important and serious matters for the Vojvodina area. All of this is the least of the damages, and this should be deeply pictured by the founders, the public of Vojvodina, the users of the services and the parties and the parties taking part in this area, whose personnel should solve the problems that have been recorded so far in this area. What's going on in reality? This is the truth I'm going to bring out now. The elections set out in the municipality of Ojacs for January 24th show the true truth of all this. In the last few weeks, seven new workers, members of the DS, have been employed in the water industry in that unit or outpost in Odzac. I'm not going to name names. They come in the morning, they drink coffee, and they leave, and no one knows where they are, and they get a very solid and big salary. Some other time, I'm going to name and name those people, and my statement can be confirmed by all the employees in that water business show. The first dimension of the damage is inconceivable, because people, these unseen new personnel, the unseen talent for complexity, are able to create major problems, and the real dimension of the damage is an inexplicable danger to the defence and to the defence system against the floods of Vojvodina, which depends on the functioning of this system of life. It will come to the point that this same water company will have to undo its recent decisions and complicate its own situation even more. It is possible that this restructuring, irresponsible children's play-offs, based on what I just said, which will not know the purpose or the purpose, and the consequences of the bankruptcy of these water companies, which have already done some work, but the work cannot be charged by the state, will be even more devastating. There will be an even greater unemployment and a gap among the citizens of the multinational Vojvodina. This particular consequence is motive. They're written in an unsuitable tone, but it's a bitter reaction, and there's no crime, no furniture, no mixing and no seriousness in this area, because in the time in which we live rightly, we're wondering if it's going on purpose, it's deliberately collapsing because of some other goals. I'm sorry I don't have more time. I think I have another amendment, so I'll try to supplement myself in the second amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32031	Three minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32032	The President-in-Office, and in the debate on the amendments, it is clear that local elections are being prepared in Odzac, and thus it is more of a subject than the amendment itself. The amendment to Article 16 states that the title above Article 16 and Article 16 shall be deleted. The reasons for erasing this amendment is that Article 16 of the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is unconstitutional. That's why I'm going back to the Constitution, risking someone saying I'm holding the Constitution too much. Article 12 says "State government is limited to the rights of citizens to province autonomy and local self-government". Article 183. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says "the AP regulates issues of regional importance in the area in accordance with the law" and, under point 2), "water economy"; therefore, water industry, which is a title, which requires that it be deleted and what is the content of the 16th Law on determining jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32033	One minute and 25 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32034	I will quote part, one segment of Article 20, but not the law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP, but the second law, which is the Law on Local Self-Government, adopted by this assembly. Article 20(5) states that the municipality shall ensure, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, the implementation and development of municipal activities, water treatment and distribution, the purification and disposal of atmospheric and waste water, the production and supply of steam and hot water, line and urban transport, etc. The Law on Local Self-Government, on the basis of the Constitution, has determined the jurisdiction of local self-government, in the area of water industry. From this jurisdiction, there is no conclusion from this part of the circle, which is consumed by all municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or any indication that there is separatism, because the local self-government unit is in charge of the water industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32035	One minute and 18 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milica Vojic-Markovic, then MP Zoran Babic. Next amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32036	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, therefore, Article 16 refers to the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in the area of water industry. Of course, the text proposed in this proposal is anti-constitutional and does not match Serbia's legal system at all. What's against that article? Here, I will leave immediately, point (1) of point (1), you wrote: “Autonomous province regulates water work for the territory of the AP Vojvodina. ” That is, of course, contrary to Article 97. The Constitution of Serbia. Immediately the first position: "The Republic of Serbia regulates", meaning the authority of the Republic is to regulate the laws of a particular area, some matter in a particular area. It can't be the jurisdiction of an autonomous province. You now have the jurisdiction of an autonomous province in the Constitution, Article 183. You won't find that there's a way to regulate jurisdiction, but the fact that you're constantly in many members, I'm going to talk about a few things, mention that an autonomous province needs to edit an area, shows only one thing -- that this is the first step towards creating a new state that will regulate its territory by law and you're fully showing that the fear of citizens is founded, because that is your goal. Do you, in this way, suggest a member, legalize something that the AP has been doing for several years, and no minister who deals with the water industry, and all are from the AP Vojvodina, does not respond to it, even though it is his duty? All international flows in Vojvodina, Danube, Tisa, Tamis, according to international conventions, it is an area governed by the Republic. The Duchess does it day and day. No one's talking about it. Next, you have the open question of the Kovinska ade located across the street from Smedereva, and by some miracle, although, according to international conventions, the border on the rivers goes to the queen and the border, so set, this Metal Ada belongs to Smedereva, and by some miracle it was found in Pancheva. Do you legalize it with a written article like this?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32037	Twenty seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32038	The President-in-Office, on whether something is against the constitution, I think it is necessary to see if the Constitution has allowed the Republic of Serbia to entrust some powers to the AP. In Article 178. "The Republic of Serbia can legally trust autonomous provinces and units of local self-government with certain issues of its jurisdiction." In Article 16, the final position: ‘The tasks of the Article 1 to 6 shall be carried out as entrusted transactions’. So it's in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32039	Forty-three seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32040	But I'm talking to the citizens, because they're bigger experts in constitutional law than the DS people who wrote this. It's very simple, Mrs. Kolundjia, it's not hard to understand, it doesn't take some great effort, as it doesn't take a great effort to be nice, it doesn't take much to torture a man to figure things out. I read you the Constitution again, in a way that everyone understands it. "Citizens exercise the right to province autonomy." It's nothing controversial. Article 177 states: “The questions... “, not areas, but issues, something individual from a large area, some large area has 675 issues, the Constitution says that several of these 670 can be subject to such a law, meaning this question or a set of these issues that can be achieved in a meaningful way within the AP. And what is the second condition -- in which the Republic of Serbia is not in charge. Then we can discuss jurisdiction for individual questions. Some question, one, two, but you're teaching 560 questions from one area. You're giving the whole area away. That's the problem. You're talking about trusted business. In this proposal for a law in 40 places, you say it's about trusting jobs, republican, stately, but you don't trust one question but you teach 40 areas. You give statehood, you write the Constitution by this law, you make the Constitution out of statutes, without title – Constitution. That's very important. Next, let me turn the question around, Mrs. Kolundjia. In particular, Article 16 in the first position is described in six points, what should be the province's jurisdiction. This law should be called, just to remind you, the law on determining questions from the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, because a member of the Constitution that speaks of the Statute and a member of the Constitution that speaks of matters under the jurisdiction of the AP says that the law determines questions, and you say this is the law on determining jurisdiction. That's why I remind you, don't play with the synonyms, 'cause punks can misread every word. Someone has already interpreted that this is a regulation that disowns the Republic of Serbia and transfers its state powers to the AP, i.e. giving Pajtic, Canka and those to whom the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not correspond. Tell me, according to the regulations of the Republic of Serbia in the area of water industry, if these six areas are transferred to the AP, what remains for the Republic of Serbia in the territory of the AP Vojvodina? Nothing. You transferred everything, absolutely everything. In the area of water industry, of course, you're throwing out the possibility of using a first-degree and second-degree procedure, which is an essential administrative business, which is a state-owned business. There are few of these individual solutions. Tell me what remains that the Republic of Serbia has as jurisdiction in the territory of the AP Vojvodina if such a bill is adopted? Don't bother, Mrs. Kolundjia, there's nothing left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32041	A total of 4.10 minutes were used, of which 2.30 minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, which was fully used. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32042	The Honorable President, dear colleagues, I have nothing to do with anyone here, so there's no need for you to explain yourself to me personally, and you're counting on me because I'm not doing it with you or anyone here. I'm talking about the text here, I'm talking about the law, and I'm not talking to anyone personally, I'm talking about argument. Whether too many areas are entrusted to autonomous provinces, the question is whether all these areas are of interest to the people of Vojvodina and whether in all these areas, the AP Vojvodina can respond more effectively to the interests of citizens living in the AP Vojvodina. That's a question for us. There's no measure of what's much, what's little, whether it's taken too much or if someone's left too little. The whole concept of decentralisation and convergence of government to citizens is essentially that as many direct life issues as possible concerning the lives of citizens in these environments are regulated at the level of those territories where they live, so either at the level of local self-government or at the level of the AP. That's how we understand things. Of course, on the other hand, it's whether it's meant for the Constitution. So our starting point in the full content of Vojvodina's autonomy is the Constitution, but what I do for us in giving that full content is, too, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32043	One minute and 55 seconds of the parliamentary group were used. MP Vlatko Ratkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32044	Unfounded claims and interpretation that the Constitution operates on a term of question, only questions. So here are the relevant members in the first place of 177 and 178. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that the Constitution in Article 177.2 clearly states which issues are of republican, regional and local importance, the law determines. But also in Article 178(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution shall benefit from the terms ‘trusted competences’. We simply have to bear in mind that the Constitution uses both terms, both legal terms, and questions and jurisdiction, which is why this law is called the bill of jurisdiction. As far as Article 16 is concerned, The proposal for this law, I will only be apostrophe of Article 1 of this 4th, that the AP Vojvodina, through its bodies in the area of water industry, brings a water-based basis for the territory of the AP Vojvodina in accordance with the horizontal basis of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32045	Used a minute and 14 seconds from the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32046	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, with careful reading of Article 16, it is evident that the bill promoter predicted that in all water-related jobs, the income achieved would be the income of the AP Vojvodina budget alone. This is where you provided for the collection of funds from fees for the use and use of water, then you provided for the inspection, and if our opinion is that inspection services must be a single republican body, and in Serbia it is known – where inspections are, there are penalties, where there are penalties, there is income. You also envisioned the establishment of a public water management company in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and if this company already exists and is called the “public water company Voda Vojvodina”, which, according to the report on the work only last year, had a revenue of 3.79 and a expenditure of 3.72 billion dinars, which means that it had a profit of 70 million dinars. Then in Article 16(1), you provided that the AP Vojvodina regulates a water-efficient activity for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and that is fine, except in the part of the protection of water against pollution for the protection of human health, animal and plant life and environmental protection. What does that really mean? When income is collected, it is only the AP Vojvodina's income, and when it is due to be invested, then you rely on the Republic of Serbia's budget. Now, as a loyal citizen of the Republic of Serbia in the Raska region, I can ask you with full right – and where is our money? Vrnjačka Banja municipality, first category tourist resort, from which I come, dumps garbage on the coast of West Morava into depression caused by the exploitation of gravel and sand. Waste, fecal waters are poured directly into the West Morava trough without any pre-travelling, and if only some fourkm of our neighbors from Triestenik drink that water downriver. Don't you think other parts of Serbia should also protect water from pollution to protect human health? Of course you should, but it's not done because the income in Vojvodina is all yours and the income in the rest of Serbia and yours and ours. Are these European principles and values that you traditionally cultivate? Such a projection of this law is unsustainable. That is why in the voting day, I call upon indeed all the MPs, regardless of political orientation and party membership, who come from a place of unresolved environmental problems to vote for this amendment to the SNS parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32047	Used one minute by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Škrbić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment is about the water industry, and I'm not going to repeat the same reasoning that I gave to Article 16, that article 17 is also being deleted. Something else is at stake, competences that will undoubtedly lead to problems again in the water business organization itself are, of course, evident and they exist now, and will be even greater when these powers reach the hands of individuals. The AP Vojvodina is across its bodies in the area of water in line, according to the law of collecting funds for the use and use of water whose height is determined by the Government, issuing water conditions, water economy consent and water business permit for facilities and works on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and the transactions under Article 1 are carried out as entrusted. There's really going to be a lot of trouble, and this is all planned and long-term. People employed in the Vojvodina waters long ago say there will be shifts, there will be surpluses, there will be restructurings, even the establishment of some new public enterprises. That something is prepared by the adoption of this statute and jurisdiction, the Law on the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, can easily be presented here by anyone in their midst, of course, if allowed, because some have been impatient in the past years. That something is being prepared in the package is also saying one example from the middle that I come from, amazing but true, that already several years ago people, i.e. Individuals who, along with some NGOs, lawyers and local powers, find the heirs of the Krauts who once lived over the above mentioned bad people slowly return their property to the heirs. Some of these old houses and estates have now belonged to social ageing institutions and are largely at risk of social harm, meaning poverty. The court rulings are taken away from them, and the people, i.e. The poor are being thrown out into the street to become an even bigger problem for society, especially for the environment in which they live. It's one of the examples of what's waiting for us and what's going on in someone's script, and everything about these two laws. Of course, there is a particular concern with us, the SRS, and it seems to me that the entire opposition and the citizens of Serbia, especially those living in Vojvodina, all of what is being said these days, and, as it turns out, the basic law left the AP, and essentially the entity with the status of federal units in the federal state. That's the facts. I have to mention LS Vojvodina and this is our concern that we show every day, because something has been said a long time ago, and everyone knows it, and what I'm about to say is available to everyone now as information and as a document. The L.S. Vojvodina has gone too far too soon, that's a long time ago. Germany and the Vatican together with Britain and the United States have long established a plan for the former Yugoslavia and the second and third. The plan has been discovered, ladies and gentlemen, by Lord Carrington since the 1991 Hague Conference. The former Yugoslavia's republics should become states, three annexes were made for Serbia, one for KIM, the other for the Raska region and the third for Vojvodina. The annexes give great independence to those areas. It is imagined that Serbia is confederating to separate those areas from it, and that Serbia will bring it down before Kumanovska Srbija, i.e. the former Belgrade Pashaluk. It's true, it's a document. Montenegro was to leave the confederal community first, and this was done, with Serbia, and then declare its independence as KIM, i.e. to create a new state of Kosovo in the Serbian state space. And it's done. When all this was done, the northern Serbian province of the AP Vojvodina was due on the agenda. Of course there's fear and concern in all of us, because this, I say, has been discovered by Lord Carrington since the 1991 Hague conference. This is a document. This isn't a lie. When we look at all of this, it is sad to be in a position to comment on this confusion, knowing that shame is not a policy or political category, because of believing in the few last powers or a grain of reason left, which can save these moves of the ruling coalition when it comes to these two laws. One more thing, how do we develop this discussion of ours, when the replicas were abolished by law, they must have wiped that attitude out by the Rules of Procedure, because the replica was only left on TV B 92 on that show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32049	Thank you, Mr. Squirt. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of the 19-nation MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32050	I can't tell Mr. Secretary anything, because he's not here, and most of the MPs don't. Therefore, Article 17 of the proposal did not specify whether it would speak about competences, additional powers, or arrange a way of financing, so it mixed it up in this article. Our amendment is solving the dilemma right now. We say - jurisdiction is determined by some other laws, including the Constitution, and funding is offered to you. Speaking of financing, I'd like something on the figures, for Serbian citizens living in the Vojvodina territory to see where their money goes. For example, the fee for renting water-based land under buildings in Vojvodina is 110 dinars per metre square, and in the rest of Serbia in the first zone is 15.77 dinars, so six times less. The Ministry of Finance, I must say, has an obligation to control and to determine the height of this fee, but also to give consent to it, but obviously it does not deal with this, so the Governing Board - the water of the Vojvodina itself makes these decisions. Furthermore, taxes for sand and gravel are in Vojvodina, for example, 96 dinars per metre square, and in the rest of Serbia 34.34 dinars per metre square, three times higher. So that's the data from the last official messenger, number 25. That's exactly funny because it shows the Danube, which is owned by Vojvodina on the left, on the right by Serbia. The man who takes out the sand in Vojvodina will pay his money three times more. It is quite clear why such great price disparity is due to the need to pay for an ever-increasing bureaucracy in Vojvodina. The appetites of ruling parties have grown, the citizens of Serbia living in the territory of Vojvodina, so that you know where they will go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32051	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 18 and 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Služarevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, this member of this law should regulate forestry and everything that is related to forestry. We, as an SRS, suggest that this member be deleted and I make certain comments on that. The forest is a complex formation of biogeocenosis, and as such, it does not deserve to be broken down or broken down by any part of it, by this biogeocenosis, by the way this law provides and by the gentlemen who have proposed this law. All this stuff about forestry and all my colleagues commenting on before me is about money. You want to manage this money allegedly, but know that the money is gone, is not in Vojvodina either, is not in Serbia either. Why isn't he here? Because you ruined everything that was worth it and everything that was giving that money. Now you've come to the field, I'm saying this about the woods, the woods. Serbia's forests now need to be ruined, in the same way as agriculture, that is, agricultural land and all that is related to agriculture. If I comment that there's no money, I come from Srem, there's no money in Srem. Happiness is like an environment rich in agriculture, and happiness is rich in forestry. So, that forestry someone wants to bring someone to their cause right now. What kind of purpose is that? It's probably about the money again. The Serbian elite of solid national consciousness does not accept this statute, nor does this law. Many colleagues in the position have commented that this law is constitutional, however, the Serbian elite does not recognise, I will only refer to a few names of the Serbian elite who commented at scientific meetings, not party meetings, but at scientific meetings, that this law and this statute do not comply with the Constitution and do not comply with legal norms. This is Mirko Vasiljevic, dean of the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, Dr Zoran Lončar, Prof. Dr. Ratko Marković, Prof. Dr. Costa Cavoski, Prof. Dr. Vladan Kutlešić, Prof. Dr. Vladan Petrov, Professor Darko Simović, Prof. Dr. Milan Jovanovic and many others who consider us as SRS and part of the opposition we have indicated to you that everything you do is not in line with the Constitution. By this law that you propose to keep the forests in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Whose property is this? Whose woods are they? Who do they belong to today? They are property of the Republic of Serbia, and you are doing damage to this law, and the host is still alive. You're sharing these woods. You probably think Serbia is dead, and as such, an heir should take over that inherited part. Foresting is a complex problem, and as such, one proposal cannot gain ownership of it. Today, the Public Enterprise of the Vojvodina Forests is running today. What do you get with this law now? In Vojvodina, you sold land, or land in Vojvodina today, to various tycoons. Whose property is this? The woods are probably next to be sold or returned for the fish carpet. Who are you doing this to today? Are you aware of what you're doing? This law is one in a series of reorganisations, and we both received damage from Serbia and Vojvodina from these diverse reorganisations that affect noise, which accounts for 5-6% in Vojvodina, while Serbia's noise is 27%. Why doesn't the Duke's noise rise to a higher percentage? Probably because of all these comments I made. The bill is contrary to Articles 1, 2, 4, 8, 172 and 185. The constitution and we propose that the affairs of forestry should be dealt with on a republican level. I'll just remind you. It's probably someone who planned and this law on jurisdiction and this statute, that the forest law doesn't come into congregation procedure. It's probably some of the messages citizens know today and can comment on. As far as further legislation is concerned, it is also decadently said that these powers with which you propose to bring in forests are intended to bring in these forests with money. Why am I saying this? Because the richest forests in the Posavian region and this Danube region, there are forests that have a large amount of wood mass per hectare, so they have 500, 600, near the Danube, and they have 1,000 cubic meters per hectare. I'll tell you a few sentences about Fruska Gora National Park. I come from the National Park of Fruska Gora and I've been working there for 36 years. By this law you also propose that the jurisdiction of the National Park be under the authority of the AP Vojvodina. It's a national treasure. It can't be shared. You want to derogate that national treasure. Then you'll probably in some of your acts, you have such comments that he can become a regional park, not a national park. What would he be, a national park? He must be under the authority of the Republic Ministry. It's all changed. It used to be the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and then it was the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Minister Dulic helped in this complete comment, related to Fruska Gora National Park. Why did he help? He's from Vojvodina and he wants me to say there, graciously to the leaders of Vojvodina, that this is as minister suggesting that this National Park of Fruska Gora be brought to some comment on their re-intention, which I was telling you about in some comment. Here, I'm gonna stop now, or I'm gonna stop, because I have four more amendments, and then I'm gonna keep making some more comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32053	Thank you, Mr. Sluzzard. Six minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the group's time. A group of 19 MPs from the parliamentary group "Democratic Party of Serbia-Vojislav Kostunica" submitted to the 18th amendment. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32054	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 18 speaks of the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in the area of forestry. The text that the proposer here has offered us here is unconstitutional and is not in line with Serbia's legal system. What's anti-constitutional here? I'm sorry there's no supervision, let's argue a little bit more, but obviously we're absolutely right. Article 18, point 1) says - Autonomous province regulates forestry in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. According to the Constitution, Article 97, it cannot be the jurisdiction of an autonomous province, its jurisdiction is regulated by another member, Article 183. The Constitution. This could be Serbia's sole jurisdiction, to regulate our laws throughout the territory some area. It can't be an autonomous province or its jurisdiction, no matter what we interpret and how we read and interpreted supervisors. That's what I said about article 16. It is clear that the proposer suggests here very precisely that the state of Vojvodina, the second step, is the first step in this statute, in its territory, to edit the areas. That's what citizens understand and recognize and what responsible MPs recognize and that's what's not in their dreams. Obviously, when the ruling coalition wakes up here, there will be something else in reality than what she dreamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32055	The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32056	The purpose of the amendment is to challenge the right and possibility for the AP Vojvodina to carry out inspections in the field of forestry through its bodies, because all laws adopted in this year in the field of agriculture are clearly specified that inspections under all these laws belong to the Republic agricultural inspection or to other inspections from the Republic level, from different areas of agricultural production, so that the legislator entrusted this as a trusted job, is transferred to the Autonomous Region as a trusted business. We believe that inspection surveillance must be centralised. This is over in all countries and the EU and beyond. The experience from the period when the AP Vojvodina was arranged under the 1974 Constitution and when it had its inspection bodies is that there was a very often conflict of jurisdiction and was not in the right, valid way to carry out that inspection. We are afraid that all this will happen again, because this very bill, not only in the area of forestry, but also in the areas of water industry, as well as in hunting and fishing, is being transmitted to the authorities of the autonomous province and our fear exists that such an inspection will not work properly. The formation of this government, by amending the ministry law, has established a General Inspectorate who oversees the entire inspection system as part of the Ministry of Agriculture. Within this ministry, by passing laws, in essence, part of that inspection is being removed from the General Inspectorate, so I am keenly interested in the budget of what budgetary projection will be foreseen for the General Inspectorate within the Ministry of Agriculture. We believe that the promoter should have accepted that point 3 is deleted, which provides for inspection tasks in the area of forestry to be taken over by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32057	One minute and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32058	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and this article 19, should regulate hunting and fishing. Today's hunting in Serbia is being organised as follows. We have the Hunting Union of Serbia and this alliance within its work has the Hunting Union of Vojvodina and the KIM Hunting Union. It was an authentic picture of how this hunting and fishing was regulated. The hunting alliance of Serbia has so far had the obligation and obligation to pass the law on hunting to the Republic of Parliament, and the law in Serbia would make concrete comments and concrete proposals to regulate it. At that time, the Republic Parliament, with this law on Serbia's hunting, could also give certain powers, i.e. responsibilities stemming from the law on hunting. Now we're taking the reverse process. Now we'll give the AP to the Duke about the hunt, and Serbia what's left. We're doing everything radically, or we're doing it in the interest of a variety of lobbies. Those lobbies are DS and everyone who's following them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32059	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32060	I'll pick up where I left off. So hunting in Vojvodina should be raised to a higher level, that level would regulate the law at the republican level. If we establish those limits, and I speak figuratively, when I say boundaries, if they're just imaginary borders, then that's fine. But if we establish solid borders, borders of statehood, we will give a very negative message, not to Serbia, but to the world. So hunting should be open. It must not be closed in some of its Atares and some of its borders. And these areas of hunting should also be revised to the last comment quality proposed, which means that there are no open questions and open problems that he has today. I believe the law on hunting will be able to regulate and propose the right solutions to this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32061	A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32062	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, did not get an answer to the often asked questions in these four days – why did it wait 14 months for this important law to be passed? I think that in these 14 months most of the people who are going to pass this law are wanted to form the basis for the creation of a new state, in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the DSS parliamentary group has submitted many amendments, in order to regulate this caucus law in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. On behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20, which regulates the area of hunting. For example, point 2 states: “Authonomous province is establishing and giving consent to the management of hunting grounds. ” Article 3 states: "It gives consent to the hunting grounds of the hunting grounds on the territory of the AP Kosovo". We propose to the proposed amendment in Article 2 that the AP establish and propose to give consent to the management of hunting grounds in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and propose to give consent to the hunting grounds on the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, I apologize, AP Vojvodina, which is all in the context of the hunting development strategy in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32063	The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32064	It was this amendment that we wanted to point out to the promoter that he was establishing certain measures of this law, and that the law on hunting was in the process of the adoption process, and the other day we had information that the government had just adopted this new bill and had not yet entered the assembly procedure. I think it is not correct then to put some of the provisions in the draft of this law and that we, MPs, do not know the content of the law and the way this area will be regulated through the new law. The second part of the amendment also refers to inspection supervision, as we believe that in the area of hunting, there should be no trust in the work of the province's authorities but that, within inspection supervision at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management of the Republic of Serbia, there will also be the jurisdiction of inspection in the area of hunting and hunting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32065	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 21 aims to bring these fishing areas and everything that is related to this activity in line with the once-in-a-lifetime comments and imagined ideas - you will no longer hunt our fish. You know that fish can't even have boundaries, like game, birds, etc., but this law probably limits that comment. We believe that the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry should continue to take care and care and issue fishing permits.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32067	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32068	This Article 22 is again related to the area of fishing, where Article 3 says: “He collects funds from the compensation and use of fishing grounds in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. ” So, I was talking about the woods, and that's where our money is, that's where our money goes. We believe that this full member should be deleted and comply with the law, related to the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, and that it should be regulated at Serbia's level as well as how the Constitution regulates it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32069	A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Vladimir Milentijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32070	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's almost as if you from the ruling coalition have made all the deals and trades around this law and now you swear that no one thinks of creating a new state. When will an independent state be created? Then when the time comes, and this law makes it possible. Therefore, the DSS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 22 that regulates fisheries areas. In Article 22(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: -AP agrees on fishing promotion programmes in fishing areas in the territory of the AP Vojvodina; under two – agrees on the use of fishing areas in the territory of the AP; under three – collects funds from fees for the use of fisheries in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The DSS has submitted an amendment proposing in paragraph 1 that "the AP proposes to give consent to the fisheries promotion programme in the fishing areas in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, determines the amount of compensation for the use of the fishing area in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and collects funds from the compensation referred to in point 2 of this Article". This is all in the framework of the fisheries development strategy in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32071	The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32072	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is also with this member of the Prosperity Group that Serbia, above all, thinks that the authorities of the AP Vojvodina should not be transferred the funds collected from the compensation for the use of fishing areas in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but rather that these funds should only be partly owned, as is the Fisheries Act at the very end. We have objections to the confidence of jobs at point 4 of this law, where inspection supervision in the field of protection, sustainable use of fish stocks and transport of fish, is also fully subject to the authorities of the AP Vojvodina. The competent authority in respect of surveillance in the field of health care and the transport of fish shall be in the jurisdiction of the veterinary inspection. Here in this bill, there is no specific inspection anywhere in the area of the protection of the health of fish and the transport of fish in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and for these reasons we have also suggested that these points 3) and 4) of this article be deleted, because we think that they will cause problems precisely in the regulation of this significant area, such as fishing, fish production, health protection and fish traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32073	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 23 and Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32074	Mr. Chairman, I do not want to engage in a trap she has prepared since this morning, and then escaped, Hope Kolundji, that we are interpreting here a member by a member of this law who is to have an interpretative fact in relation to the Constitution of Serbia, which was violated in Article 182 paragraph 2, point 188, paragraph 1, Article 82(2), Article 93. I could continue to do so, but later on, according to the amendments, because it is quite clear to the entire public of Serbia, what we Serbian radicals have proved to be numerous examples, and some colleagues from the opposition parties, that this law is an absolutely separatist act and that it is a way to legalise the Statute of Vojvodina which has violated all these provisions of the Constitution that I have listed. In fact, the intention of those who voted on the Autonomous Region and of you who will vote here to restore Vojvodina's confederal status that she had under the 1974 Constitution, you remember that time, Mr. Novakovic, is certainly that of the famous Brion Constitution, and that is why I will use the way Mrs. Kolundji did it. I will do what is truly the most important and highest legal act of the country, which is the Constitution of Serbia, to hold in my right hand, because we all have to stick to it, and he has been broken in a number of provisions, by adopting this law that determines some I would say competitive jurisdiction in relation to those already held by the state of Serbia, the Republic as sovereign in its power, and in this second left hand I will show you how the faces of the British MPs, as they were called by the people of this eminent weekly magazine "Pecate", these are all your photos. You see, what is said in the people, you are beautiful, but you are now in yellow letters. You who had some other ideology at the time, I don't know if you, Mr. Novakovic, were in 1974 when that constitution was brought in as a member of the Socialist Youth, the Alliance of Communists, that's irrelevant, but you have to know that the consequences of such a constitution were shown only after 15 years. Here, these are the faces, so the yellow letters written by the British MPs, those who want to put us in such a position that tomorrow and your children, and your grandchildren and all of Serbia live in fear as of Monday, when you vote this law and statute in what state they will live in Serbia, which you will certainly by your rule above all Boris Tadic, first of all with the help of his Western mentors, comes to the level of Belgrade's pasture. I'll proceed with the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32075	Thank you. One minute and five seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica – submitted to the 23rd amendment. The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32076	The Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 23, and the amendment concerns tourism, hospitality, spas and resorts. We have proposed that this member be changed, so that we have proposed that the AP Vojvodina, through its bodies, and in the framework of the strategy for the development of tourism in Serbia, proposes a section relating to the AP Vojvodina, proposes to the government of the Republic of Serbia, an act on the declaration of tourist space, and appoints a member of the commission for the categorisation of tourist sites, establishes a tourist organisation of the AP Vojvodina and other organisations working on the work and promotion of tourism, regulates the use of mineral and thermal waters and regulates the establishment of spas and spas. Our proposal for Article 23 is simpler, more precise and is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of Serbia. This amendment, as well as other amendments submitted by the DSS parliamentary group, aims to bring this caucus bill into line with the Constitution and Serbia's legal system. And as you have seen, we have proposed, with this amendment, that the AP Vojvodina actually obtain its essential autonomy and certain competences, but without the elements of statehood and without the possibility of creating an actual new state on the territory of Serbia, so I urge you to accept this and other DSS amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32077	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. You have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32078	Indeed, the Law on Tourism, which was adopted in this assembly in May, provides for a qualification exam for a tourist guide in the area of the autonomous province, but the question in the future is what these tourist guides will do and what kind of Serbia they will be able to show to those who come to Serbia. As you have set out and how this is indeed a completely secessionist act, which is confirmed by all these powers, 150, which are contrary to the Constitution and Article 182(2), are transferred to an autonomous province, is an obvious intention to, as the lawyers would say, be a numberios classic through the interpretation of Mrs Kolundjia, and those who are advocates of this law, which will have far-reaching consequences, in fact bring the children of Serbia in the future not to be able to count on Serbia to be the complete territory that should be under Article 82(2). The constitution to be with unique and space, and with the market, and with a unique economy. Because it is also the area of tourism through these members of the law, to which I submit the amendments, that is to absolutely be transferred to an autonomous province. The Law on Tourism, which was adopted in May this year, clearly states that the Government of the Republic of Serbia regulates and entrusts space in line with the National Tourism Strategy. You want to make some new national strategy of the Vojvodina now? Did you ask all those citizens who live in the area of our autonomous province do you agree? This law, of course, needs to experience the assessment of constitutionality before the Constitutional Court, but I must remind you, Mr Novakovic, that in February 2002 Professor Vojislav Seselj, when the first, Omnibus law on determining the jurisdiction of the Autonomous province, was brought up again under the 1990 Constitution, seemed to me by Article 190 of that Constitution, was possible to entrust one part of those responsibilities to an autonomous province, but they could not be determined, and as Mr Krasic said yesterday, that you are now devaluing the Constitution, in the way that it suits you. To rewrite the norms of the Constitution and to say – now we interpret it that way. It's just not possible. A in 23 responsibilities referred to in Article 182. You've extended the constitution to even 160th completely unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32079	A minute from the MP's time. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32080	The Honored Chairman, as has been said, Article 24 is in line with the law governing the area, and the question of whether, I say, a tourist strategy will be created beyond the strategy of the Republic of Serbia is governed by Article 23 of this law, which says that the Autonomous province regulates the planning and development of tourism for the territory of the AP Vojvodina in line with the strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32081	Forty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. There is no replica, a member is quoted without any further comment. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32082	Mrs. Kolundjia, I really don't want you to have any intention of defending each member of the proposed law that's against it, but don't insult the dignity of the National Assembly. I mean, you don't have to raise your hand to the chairman, you better look at me to have some argumentary communication, that a injured member of 104. The Constitution because you have no idea about the Tourism Act. Now exit quickly or invite one of your associates to pass the Tourism Act, so you will see that the strategy and planning of tourism development for the area of the Autonomous province is governed exclusively by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you want to suspend the Tourism Act that you brought in May this year when, by the way, against the Rules of Procedure, you have expelled all SRS MPs, except for a colleague of Marine Ragush, you can, but don't say anything you obviously don't know about. In this hand, just to show you, in the left I held the magazine "The Seal" - "The Face of Bryon Serbia", there's your photograph, it's you MPs, it's now yellow undertone, although you used to be a member of the Union of Communists, but then probably from the ideal and you thought it was nice, so you saw how much the 1974 Constitution got on our heads, but you need to know, Mrs. Kolundji, that this law in two provisions, your law and this area of tourism, hair and it's directly contrary to the Law on Tourism of the Republic of Serbia. If you already wanted to do it in a way complementaryly, then you should have read better the Tourism Act that you brought in May this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32083	Ms. Jovanovic, you have not called on a member of the Rules of Procedure, you have called on Article 104. The Constitution, which in no way can neither violate nor have any intention of acting unconstitutionally. Please, first of all, I remind you that you already have two notices entered, do not call for violations of the Rules of Procedure that do not exist. Thank you for your understanding of the future. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32084	Mr. Novakovic, I really don't know why you didn't follow me closely, I was talking about a member of the Constitution and 104 members of the Rules of Procedure. I said that Mrs. Kolundjia has hurt the dignity of the Assembly, and now you've hurt him, and Article 27, and Article 104, because you have no right as chairman to remind me of anything or to give me advance signals or, God forbid, threats, I know that you are not such a man, unlike some of your colleagues who are chairing, what I have and whether I have. First of all, if you want to see it realistically and put the movie back, as a man who has so far been correct in the letters of the Rules of Procedure, you will see that I am not at all the two penalties, as you have said, or the warnings earned by the letter of the Rules of Procedure, as well as by my other colleagues. But let's put it aside, she saw Serbia, and there's no problem, and I don't want to put you in a position to apply any criminal provisions, but don't you react to me either, because never in any place could anyone in any way or verbally, that any suggestion in a threatening sense would suggest to any Serbian radicals, to any of us, and especially to me, so please don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32085	Miss Jovanovic, I have neither threatened nor ever thought of threatening anyone in my life. This was a notice, possibly a reminder. It is my duty to give you an explanation and, therefore, there is no violation of any of the members you have called for, but there is one obligation of the chairman, as provided for in Article 100(7), and I would not break that obligation, so that is why I have told you everything I have said. If you happen to realize that it's in a threatening tone, I apologize, but believe me, I have no idea that I'm ever, ever, not right now, threatening anyone at all. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32086	Dear Chairman, I will make an effort against all principles to bring down the level of debate to the level that is imposed and to say - I confess, probably a qualified tourist guide on the Tourism Act knows more than I do. Thank you. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Replica! )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32087	You do not have the right to reply, nor are you mentioned, therefore, in the context of the debate on tourism, one of the functions and activities that are certainly being carried out is mentioned. I don't understand. You recognized each other? Yeah. ) The word has Miss Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32088	Mrs. Kolundzija, I really respect your qualifications, as far as I know you are a graduate politician, but from a time when you forgot where Serbia went down when you were an active member of the Alliance of Socialist Youth, and later you were an active member of the Communist Party, and then you were in Covic's alternative, so they accepted you in their yellow wing, so now you're the boss of all of you who advocated, as well as the gentlemen of Pecata put and underline yellow brion Serbia. And, unlike me, you don't have to be proud of what you're doing, because if you go through a historical and cultural heritage, which I could possibly teach you, for starters, come to my Kragujevac, which is the first Serbian capital, where the first Serbian Constitution, which was short on strength, but no one came to mind in the part of Serbia from which I come, I am proud of both my ancestors and all the Serbs who have defended our country through the centuries, that in this way, if they are sincere in their intention to fight for their country and their people, break down and break down Serbia, then you should be ashamed. Not because I know better about tourism than you do, certainly, and not only in these areas, but also in those where you're flocking, and Europe will never see you, but I'm telling you because of the fact that it's extremely immoral what you're doing, that through the form of the law that's breaking the constitution you're going to go to, it's clear to everyone, the whole country, that you're breaking this space, that you're going to feel future generations. The constitutionalists of 1974, those who were your ideological mentors, Josip Broz and others, did not speak then to the citizens, primarily Serbs and those from the space where they lived in the former SFRY, that this would happen, the secession of SFRY with the help of America and its Western powers played in such a way that we would become the most perilous people in the Balkans. Today we have 500 thousand compatriots who have had to escape from their centuries-old hearths, sitting here in parliament the Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska in exile. It's not enough that kind of cynical qualification, I don't know why and for what reasons you've recognized yourself to act. Just go back to a newer history, you don't have to go much further and see the dangers we're at. You will wonder when you are in late years and in some distant pension, which I wish you and, of course, like all citizens of Serbia, you will live long, why you have participated in this and you will recognize this British face.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32089	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Replication time's up. The title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32090	You're not going to synchronize anything today. Usually when I'm sitting right next to you, and otherwise I think it's more appropriate to defend the amendments I've made on behalf of the SRS, to address you from here. Environmental protection is another provision that is much more detailed and through the enormous expansion of jurisdiction introduced by Article 25 of this Law on determining jurisdiction. If you look at the authority of the AP and see what they can do in the letter of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you will see that agriculture, water, forestry, hunting and fishing, tourism, hospitality, spas and spas, environmental protection, etc., the area that the AP, in accordance with the Constitution and its statute, regulates jurisdiction, choice, organisation and work, but all of it in accordance with the law. The question arises -- why do you need it, we also passed a set of laws in the field of environmental protection this year, and why you did not decidate yourself there according to what will be done by the AP Vojvodina, you have already treated Serbia fully and uniformly, as it is also treated according to Article 82(2). The Constitution. It is amazing that we all had a clear consensus on the adoption of the Mitrovica Constitution, as it was called, because it was brought on that day in 2006, and that it was now the most harshly abused, three years after the adoption of such a law. That's what history is going to judge, and as far as we're concerned, we're going to continue to the end, point by point to tell you about it, no matter what area it is. I am honored to be able to speak about the area of tourism and environmental protection, and to speak of this unconstitutional law, but you will see by the end, so when it comes to national minorities, that is what is actually the greatest focus of those who allegedly advocate the right of minorities, that you are not right to bring anything new to a minority member, or to improve its position this law, which I repeat, is anti-constitutional and which is the basis for the future secession of our AP. In 2003, a declaration of the so-called “Republic of Serbia” was brought to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Remember, Hackerup's constitutional frameworks for our southern province of AP KIM, which is now under occupation. While you were still boasting, although NATO's occupation forces came in 1999, after the bombing, how still the state of Serbia can enforce some of its power and laws there, and where we are now. Now you've got a situation where there's been some sort of Ship's election. There you have a double electoral power and that the Serbs who are left there are completely humiliated and have no rights. I'm afraid it doesn't happen in the near future, but that fear is quite justified and justified, the citizens of Vojvodina in five or ten years, I don't want to speculate, but the point of truth is, unfortunately, in the case of Serbia and all these negative balances and events are rapidly turning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32091	The time used by the parliamentary group is one minute and 45 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica group submitted to the 425th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32092	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm glad Mrs. Kolundzhia is here, because we will face the same arguments again. Article 25 concerns environmental protection. In paragraph 1, where Vojvodina is said to regulate, improve and ensure environmental protection for the territory of Vojvodina, it is fully prescribed the jurisdiction of the Republic as the authority of the AP. We can talk about trusted jurisdiction, but they can't be copied from the Constitution like this. Now we overwrite the jurisdiction of the Republic and say, well, we love it and how we want it. Why am I talking about what Mrs. Kolundjia says now? Because during the day, she has warned us several times that she imagines decentralisation and that she is the party's representative for decentralisation. I'll brief her on what it looks like in practice. When the Environmental Protection Fund was established, local environments that had the means under the Environmental Protection Act, to protect the environment in their territory, therefore completely decentralised, took those funds and transferred them to a common fund. It's called, Mrs. Kolundjia, centralization. That's the law you've passed. There are no words about decentralisation, as there are no words here when it comes to this statute and this law. It has nothing to do with decentralisation. It has something to do with your intentions, the settlement of party interests and similar things, and another big thing, with what you planned to make a very big bureaucracy and very big appetites that have bureaucracy on AP territory sort of settle down. Now we're going to move them out, give them that space, try to fill them with various functions, by taking things away from them in various ways, as you here transfer the jurisdiction of the Republic to the authority of the AP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32093	The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32094	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I still don't know why they're speaking to me here personally. I'm talking about the act here and everything I'm saying, I'm not telling anyone personally. I just think it's a level of debate that shows an excellent kind of impotence and possible, even impatience, which I don't think is a place in the National Assembly. This isn't about any party intrusion either. Here we are talking about a concrete act and whether this act contains or does not contain something that is not in the Constitution scale, whether this act is not precise enough, whether it should be complemented, whether something needs to be changed. Indeed, nothing at all, nothing personal or any party I bring into what I am doing today and these days in the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32095	A minute and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The title above article 26 and article 26 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32096	Meanwhile, party colleagues from the centre of the SRS have brought me a new magazine of our "Greater Serbia" list, where we have placed on the front page the Vojvodina statutes, the destruction of Serbia and the state and our constitutional order. Since we are a serious political party and this magazine, whose publisher and founder is Prof. Vojislav Seselj, who, I think, is apparently the whole and the world public in the process that has been headed against him for seven years before the anti-Serbian Hague case, based on a political indictment and explained the gene of all events. You know. If you look at it, I believe you're following it like many DS colleagues who keep telling me to give Dr. Seselj congratulations on that fight, he was able to explain there what I started to defend these amendments with. At the beginning of the chairmanship, Judge Antoinetti understood nothing, you know, or pretended not to understand, but later, as he was moving on, Professor Seselj showed that America and its Western allies, Germany, above all, the UK, had also played a major role in breaking the former state and our cultural, ethnic, national, religious space. The fact that the province will establish a province's environmental protection office and what this member of the law... I don't know, Mrs. Kolundji, we don't speak to you personally, don't get it wrong, you're our esteemed colleague with whom we have communication, that we don't think citizens, outside of these congregation debates, but you haven't since you entered the O.R. this morning figured out what's the point of what we want to say and why we're erasing every member. We think that it is against this whole law because this law is only the basis that you, in the way you think it is possible to interpret the Constitution of Serbia, because before that, you have adopted the statute, and after that, you have passed this law that we are discussing and its final proposal has been established. Is that right? You are only according to the Constitution, if you wanted to deal with environmental protection, whose member I ask to delete the title above Article 26, you could only withdraw the border between what is republican and what is the province's jurisdiction. You don't do it in all the members of this law. In two-thirds, you are introducing completely new powers that, not according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, but which determines them. Not only did you make a mistake in the name of the law, but all the chapters and all the members of the law hair with the letter of the Constitution and the existing laws that this Assembly adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32097	One minute and 10 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32098	Dear Chairman, whether we're talking about disseminating jurisdiction or determining jurisdiction, I think there should be another kind of controversy right now. The demarcation would mean only if the Constitution did not predict that the Republic of Serbia could transfer powers to the AP Vojvodina and in that case, we would talk about the demarcation of jurisdiction. Since the Constitution unequivocally says that the Republic of Serbia can transfer jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina, then we are still talking about determining jurisdiction, in my deep confidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32099	(Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. There's no need and you don't have the right to reply. A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic and a group of 21 MPs from the parliamentary group, advanced Serbia, submitted the title above Articles 27 and 27 of the same text. Now, Miss Jovanovic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Mr Arsen Đuric have come forward for the word. As a gentleman, I'd like to give Miss Jovanovic a word, if that's okay with you. Thank you. Miss Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now tell me, you don't have to, that you don't feel personally called again, Mrs. Kolundjia, but none of your colleagues are answering, and probably all following. I believe that many will learn something from this new number of "Great Serbia" which Mr. Markovic has now shared with the MPs. Now find me in the letter of the law and the Constitution – how it is possible that the Constitution, through the confidence of these 23 powers, which, you were not in the hall, in the first amendment, taxed most of them, gave you the opportunity to establish a public enterprise, the National Park of Fruska Gora. What's the background of that and why are you doing it? A colleague of Plužarevic is in one part, since he is also a man from this profession and as someone who is in every way very well known to what is being done in the National Park of Fruska Gora, especially the state that was up until January of this year, said that the establishment of a public enterprise is the National Park of Fruska Gora, which will otherwise be led by the change of government by someone from your DS or someone from the League to whom you give a piece of cake, and that the essence is that this national treasure will be just as well, we had a case to hear the example of "Metals Bank", and then all those examples that were brought out yesterday through the robbery privatisation of Mr. Todorovic, and it will not help to make the citizens of Novi Sad, Sutotica, Odzak and Sremska Mitrovica live better live better in the area of this new car.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32101	Mr Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32102	This article illustrates the wish of the legislator and the law and the statutes, because it cuts several responsibilities that simply belong to the state. Fruska Gora National Park is the natural heritage of every country and is owned by the state. If you now trust the AP Vojvodina to the National Park of Fruska Gora, then the public property will be transferred to the property of the AP Vojvodina, since you have decided before that to be the case. Not to remind you that Serbia has always cared about nature since it exists, and even in Dusan's code you have a ban on overcuting the forest. One thing here to ask you – what is the decentralisation of the national park? What decentralisation is achieved by transferring ownership of the national park to the AP Vojvodina? It's a state alienation. Imagine the national park that has existed since 1960, which is a member of the European Parks Association Europark. Suddenly, this year, it appears somewhere in Europe as an AP Vojvodina national park. Is there any end to that nonsense? It cannot be decentralised by estranged from the citizens below, south of the Danube and to confide in management, bossship, income, ownership of the AP Vojvodina as a public property. It's not working, because it's the jewel of all of us. Then you can find another dozen territories in Vojvodina that still belong in a strange way to the state of Serbia. Make up some public enterprises, national parks or something right now. Kidnap it while it's time. You can take the Danube National Park and claim the European river. The trap is too big to be skipped. Let's keep it what we said, keep it going to the Constitutional Court, but it just can't defend itself. One national park that is a European heritage that is now being awarded by a declared act there to the AP Vojvodina and thus deny us to others who do not live there, who one day someone can say - excuse me, where has your ID card been issued to you? First we'll go from Vojvodina to a national park, then the rest of you will.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32103	One minute from the time of the parliamentary group or your time as president. The word is Mr. Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32104	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, today we are discussing a very important topic for which the entire government is empowered, and in the hall, with all due respect to Minister Bradic, there is no Prime Minister, no Vice-President and no other minister. I think it's extremely incorrect from the government's representatives. They thus show their attitude toward the National Assembly. To return to article 27 and the title above article 27. This applies to the National Park "Fruška gora" and Article 27 provides that the AP Vojvodina shall establish the National Park "Fruška gora" and assume its responsibilities, rights employed by the current national park. I think it's the opposite of any elemental logic that the AP Vojvodina can set up companies that will run parks of national importance. The name of the national park itself means that it is one national, state treasure and that it is impossible for the AP Vojvodina to be the founder of the National Park "Fruška gora". In the system of nature protection there are lower levels of protection, which is a park of nature, a monument of nature. I fear that if such a member of 27 is adopted in this law, another degree of protection of Fruska will have to be carried out, that he will not be able to remain a national park, because it is logical for the state to establish national parks, and if a lower degree of protection of Fruska is declared above, this will also mean the devastation of the National Park "Fruška gora". Or is this an announcement of what we have been talking about for several days, that there is indeed a new state in the territory of the Serbian state and that then we have the National Park "Fruška gora" whose founder is Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32105	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32106	Dear Mr. Chairman, Article 27 does not say in any word that the AP is setting up the National Park "Fruška Gora". So, the "Fruška gora" National Park exists. It was regulated by the law of the Republic of Serbia, which is how he got the status of the national park. So this is about who takes responsibility for managing the national park. What's going on here is that a public firm is being established to run a national park. So again, we come to the same point -- does the question of decentralisation mean that the issues that are related to a particular territory, is it better to manage the AP, because it is on AP territory, respecting and implementing laws, or is it better to work for someone who is central in Belgrade and we can compromise on that. So, in our deep belief, the purpose of decentralisation is precisely to draw closer to the citizens of governance that is of their own interest. There is no mention here of ownership of the national park, which is either accidental or very deliberately attempted to impute that this law speaks of the AP taking possession of the national park, and such someone who is not from Vojvodina may not be able to come to that park. So, absolutely not one word here says that the national park belongs to someone. It's a national good. This is only about how anyone believes that the good can be more responsible and better managed in the interests of the citizens, whether the government that is closer to the citizens or the government that is away from the citizens, even from the national park itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32107	Compared to the commitments we've made, no one has a replica first. It's about different interpretations of one regulation and there's no dialogue, no address. Everyone has made a point of seeing the rules and can, as chairman, respect or disrespect an opinion, but these are questions for other competent authorities. Mr. Nikolic, according to the amendment, has the right to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32108	I must complete the presentation on our amendment, the right to debate the amendment of the second parliamentary group. I cannot accept the argument that Fruska Gora is closer to Novi Sad than Belgrade. I'd like you to get in the car sometime and head to Fruska Mountain from Novi Sad and Belgrade and see who gets here sooner. What is this base where it's closer, who's closer, who's in charge in Belgrade? The one who will manage the Duke's headquarters tomorrow is in Belgrade. So, your party that's doing all this, its headquarters is probably in Belgrade, not in Novi Sad. If he's in New Sad, let us know. If you've established DS for the AP Vojvodina, tell us freely, that we know who we're talking to, but then don't defend this law. So, I warned you, the public property of the public enterprises that founded the AP Vojvodina belongs to Vojvodina. So the National Park "Fruška Gora" belongs to Vojvodina, does not belong to Serbia, does not belong to all citizens of Serbia. We could say it belongs to you, to all the citizens of Vojvodina, and it's a national park, it's not one forest of five acres, it's not someone's stream. That's what Serbia is complaining about. We don't have many of those. You now convince me that one closer to the citizens will be better concerned. The conductor is closest to the citizens, he rides with them every day on the bus. I'm really offended by your argument, how did your eye fall on Frusch Mountain? It's not. I know this is going to be lifted by the Constitutional Court, this has to be lifted by the Constitutional Court, but you've only left it to the Constitutional Court to have something to abolish, so to speak, he's abolished five provisions, so here's the Constitutional Court. This law should be dropped before its application, before it is passed. The Constitutional Court should have already sat down, reacted, not to be held here for 15 days in a debate over an unconstitutional law. Do not transfer it to any conflict between the AP Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia, as the rest of us will be called from now on, the rest will be. There's no conflict here, there's only a desire here for everything to be ours, in common, that Vojvodina can manage what the whole state trusts her with, and that everything is ours in common, so the state can function. Not -- territory formally Serbia, and everything else is the AP Vojvodina. So, you're separating us, and now you're going to prove yourself to be the concubines who fought for Vojvodina, because you're winning most of the election in Vojvodina, because you fought for Vojvodina. Well, I'm fighting for Vojvodina, too. But then go to the election in this poor remnant of ours when we come after you and tell you how you fought for Vojvodina. You are now plowing war across Serbia, now local age and escapes will start to form their autonomy, because there is no longer anything that connects us. By separating us from the Vojvodina in the most brutal way possible in all areas, you are the last cohesion factor in Serbia to collapse. What, Presevo, Bujanovac won't start making their autonomy, not in the Raška area this minister, who already forms his party in Novi Sad, goes to the workers and says - I'm in charge of taking care of the workers, will your bosses be out of a job, to shut down your company if you don't join me. You've got us into a policy that we don't want to do. Nor do I intend to insult you, nor do I allow you to insult my dignity and my pride. The Frusch Mountain is as much mine as the lady sitting next to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32109	All I'm informing you is that we're going to get out of the TV broadcast, the word by the Rules of Procedure will be given to Natasa Jovanovic. Or do you want me to set a break? Can I give you my word on the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32110	Mr. Novakovic, thank you for your information, I have an application for the Rules of Procedure, I have a amendment then, or I will link it to what Mrs. Kolundzhija misread the presentation to Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32111	So on the basis of Article 85(1), I interrupt today's work and continue at 3:10 p.m. Have a nice lunch, who hasn't had lunch, and thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32112	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue the session in the afternoon of the search in particular and we begin with the amendment to Article 28, which was submitted by Parliament Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32113	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before the break, in the whole series, since one whole chapter is being treated -- tourism and environmental protection, I have stated to the SRS parliamentary group that we do not agree in any way with the adoption of this law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which in more than 150 cases extends those constitutional frameworks of jurisdiction. I must now, since it is about protecting the environment and this first position, where it is said to comply with the applicable law, to remind the citizens of Serbia that it is also your authority, and especially the Minister of State Administration and local self-government Mr. Markovic spoke more about decentralisation when it comes to environmental protection, especially through the project of the creation of municipal police. As much memory serves me, and I mean relatively well, two months ago, it's the municipal police, which will most of the inspection surveillance will take over on itself and from the republican authorities, the law we established here in the National Assembly, just promoted in Novi Sad. Since it's a short time to talk, and now I'm gonna finish that whole story I started with a series of amendments before the break. It is up to you, MPs of the DS, parties of LSV, SPS, LDP, G17, SPO and all those who support you, great responsibility. Responsibilities because now, although you may not think so, but that is certainly what the oligarchs in Novi Sad are thinking, that by adopting this legal project and statute, which this law actually supports and post-festum, you are harmonising this statute with this law, that you are actually making a huge mistake and a threat to the state of Serbia because of indeed all the prerogatives of statehood, in all areas, you have just not covered the area of police, explicitly foreign affairs, in addition, that an autonomous province can conclude international contracts with the Ministry of Defence. All other things, AP Vojvodina now, pursuant to this law, contrary to Article 182(2), Article 97, 178, Article 82(2). The constitution has so, as we say, that the old age will ask you what you were doing in some youth or middle-aged years, as you have thought, which is why you have done it and you have a great responsibility because the entire patriotic Serbian public is aware that the adoption of the statutes of an autonomous province and this law that it is harmonising in fact for the future and the great forces that are coming upon our country, above all, of certain Western countries that through projects, and also the protection of the environment, through various funds are reportedly helping to develop an autonomous province, in fact, their goal is to further territorial breakdown and in the future, unfortunately, the secession of our northern province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32114	A minute and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. In the electronic system, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji is registered. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32115	The Honorable Chairman, I'm really sorry now, but I've reported that I've been speaking by amendment to article 27, and since then I've been registered as registered. I feel a special need to say something about what's been said about that member. So, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, using this article, or amendment that they have submitted, expressed fears, threats, accusations, etc. that it is a member of the law that disintegrates Serbia, which will lead to the establishment of a public enterprise to manage the National Park of Fruska Gora, that it will be a state in the country, etc. So, I want to say that the Belgrade fortress, which is a public good of the highest national interest, is run by a public enterprise founded by the city of Belgrade. So if we think some national values can be entrusted to lower levels of government, and some others can't be trusted, then there's really no logic in that. Trust in the management of the National Park of Fruška Gora is simply followed by a law allowing national parks and national goods to manage local self-government and lower levels of government compared to the Republic of Serbia. I really appreciate every effort by every MP to point out some possibility that would lead to the disintegration of the state, because what we want to do is absolutely not that. So, by this law and statute, we want to confirm the unity of the Republic of Serbia, but we want, by implementing the Constitution, to realize what the Constitution itself has predicted, and that is - the decentralisation of authorities and the organisation of governments at lower levels.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32116	Two minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32117	I'm going to have to use the MP group's time to say at the shortest that it's simply an incomplete interpretation that she tried to give Mrs. Hope Kolundji here. So it's not about managing the public good itself. It is a matter of how to regulate property over this public good and so that the duchy property becomes the only property that is pre-regulated by law that will regulate that area and that the public property, since all of this, is the law that applies to the statutes, means that in parallel terms we have to talk about one and the other all the time, public property is divided in the most direct way here in Serbian and duchy. The Vojvodina can manage and take care of that property, but it must remain state-owned and it is an invasion. However, you must agree that, in a legal sense, the word "disposal", both legally and economically, in fact means that the state of Serbia is literally, in fact, denying such solutions everything in the territory of Vojvodina, except for the territory itself, because it is transferring to the management of public enterprises, regulation of public property, etc. is proof of that. It remains within Serbia only formally. Is this not proof to you of the legal protection of property rights and the interests of the AP Vojvodina, carried out by the province's public defendership? From whom does the province’s public defendership protect property on the territory of Vojvodina – compared to Serbia, Croatia, Hungary? Who? So, the way to dispose of property, define public property, predetermination of laws that will regulate the availability, and whether it will give a championship to the Duchy, gives us the right not to have fear, but that the way it's arranged only defines Serbia as the formal owner of the territory, from whose territory it's actually all about what's called the geographical Vojvodina transferred to the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32118	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32119	Again, unfortunately, I must return to the Constitution, because the Constitution says that autonomous provinces manage the province's assets. The constitution also predicts that local self-governments have property and in this sense we do not see that it is logical that local self-governments have, and the autonomous province is not, although the constitution has predicted that it has property. In addition, the province has defence attorneys, including the city and municipalities, and this is a question of indeed decentralisation of functions that the state trusts with lower levels of government in the Republic of Serbia. The sentence that the state remains the owner of the territory is something we find difficult to comment on. If we come from a constitutional provision that sovereignty comes from citizens and that no state body, political organisation, group or individual can claim sovereignty from citizens, then we are going from it to determine which jobs they trust as sovereigns to local self-government, trust an autonomous province or state. In that sense, I think that neither anyone here grabs or loses jurisdiction, it is only that a decentralised state, as prescribed by this Constitution, foresees that all those jobs that are of the interests of the citizens of Serbia, which is more direct interest, is being regulated and these issues are managed by the lowest level of governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32120	Two minutes and five seconds used by the MP's group. The word has been sent by Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32121	Mrs. Kolundjia, you are a woman I personally respect, let us speak with precision. It means that he manages and takes care of public property, no one disputes local self-government, no city, no province, but that property has to remain state-owned. Let me cut back on national parks. America, which we see ourselves in a lot, everyone in the advanced world, has national parks in federal property, federal, federal, meaning supreme, state. When you say decentralisation, I repeat, don't like DS having double arches around the centralization of companies because it's cheaper, more efficient both in public procurement and in the management of funds, costs, etc., and when it comes to the state we're going to decentralisation, because it's not effective now. Is the citizen of Sombora just as close to Telekom when there are all the organs there that can provide him with a service at the nearest and most direct level, as it should be in a state sense? The interest in such a way of decentralisation or centralization is not at all hidden and cannot be covered up, it is interesting. Calling the Constitution do you know what it means? It's like calling for your freedom that is limited to my freedom. Who will distinguish your freedom and mine? You're saying it here today - the law. What law if we have laws that conflict with each other?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32122	People's MPs, the time available as the time of the parliamentary group has been used. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32123	I really don't know how it's possible to miss a word in reading the same text. So I can only assume there's a point in that. Autonomous provinces run the province's assets. The constitution predicts that the province has property, I'm just saying, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32124	It's been used 25 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32125	I have to react. It is true that it says in the Constitution that the property of the province is managed. However, the national park is not the property of the province, the national park is state property and no one in the world has been entrusted with the management of the national park either the province or the local self-government unit. So, the protected natural well-being that is in the lower degree of protection from the national park can be entrusted even to municipalities and cities to manage, but national parks nowhere in the world are not entrusted to the management of local self-governments, not to the provinces or regions. The state manages national parks because it is national and national good.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32126	It's been used 40 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32127	I'm sorry, but I'm going to remind you of a very specific example and it's not the only one. The public firm Belgrade Fortress, which runs 54ha. (More MPs DSS: But it's not a national park. But it's good of national interest. Why do you think the national park has a different, more specific weight than the national goods that are good of particular interest? There's no telling around here that the national park is owned by anyone, this is about who is entrusted with the management of that national park. I don't want to talk about this anymore. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: How much time has been spent? )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32128	It's been used 45 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. After the presentation of each MP, I make it clear how much time has been spent, and I say whether that time refers to the use of the time of the parliamentary group or to the president or/or the authorised representative. What I'm saying is it stays in the stenogram and we can all check, and I'm saying so that all those who run their parliamentary groups and take care of time can record and see for themselves how much time they have at their disposal. (Zoran Krasic, from the site: How much time is left? ) Since it is obvious that there is an interest in how much time remains at this time, on the basis of Article 88(2), I am informing the National Assembly that the PUPS has the total time and the president of the parliamentary group and the parliamentary group, as well as the Group of Minorities, the MP group of New Serbia - the president of the parliamentary group seven minutes and 30 seconds, the parliamentary group of two minutes and 20 seconds, the LDP - the president has all the time available, and the parliamentary group has 12 minutes and 20 seconds, the SPS-JS parliamentary group - the president of the parliamentary group has all the time available, as well as the parliamentary group together. The MP Group Advanced Serbia - the president of the parliamentary group or the deputy president has 6 minutes at his disposal and the final presentation of the National MP, Jorvanka Tabakovic, has used the total time of the parliamentary group, which I have notified to the People's Parliament and the National Assembly, the DSS Group - the time of the president has been used, and the time available for the parliamentary group is 7 minutes and 20 seconds, the G17 Plus MP group is available, as well as the total time of the parliamentary group, the SRS parliamentary group - the time of the authorised representative has been used, the time available is 16 minutes and 20 seconds, the ZES parliamentary group - the time of the parliamentary group has been used, and the parliamentary group has 66 minutes and 15 seconds at its disposal. Whoever wants to keep it under control can follow, because I will, as I have done so far, notify every statement. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Hope Kolundžija replied to all of us, how is it possible that she has so much time left? ) National MP Zoran Krasic continues to throw away. They repeat the risk of angering other MPs who have listened that after each MP, I have said how much time has been spent, that it is in the stenogram of the National Assembly session and that before you allow yourself the right to say that it does not care how much time is spent, make an insight into the stenogram and see whether you have the right or not. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32129	Let me finish this discussion that we started in the previous amendment, and that goes on here as well. Obviously, there are several laws that regulate the degree of protection of natural resources. The National Park is the highest level of protection. He's always in the jurisdiction of the Republic. He can't run an autonomous province because it's a national park. If a natural good is protected, it is a lower degree of protection, an autonomous province could manage it, but simply the law does not allow that possibility. I refer to all those who know little about it, there is a Nature Protection Act, see what the graduation of the degree of protection of protected natural resources, parks etc. looks like. That's the first thing. The other thing that I want to clear up, because we started it a few minutes ago, is that it's very important to clear up the ecosystem and protect the environment, and it's not something that can be cut into a hive, so when the air is polluted and pollution over Pancheva, then nothing will happen in Belgrade, then we'll do some other law to apply here. It's impossible. There are different levels of jurisdiction, republican care of the entire territory. The AP territory is something else, and you can't law that's the general type to apply there.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32130	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) To the title above Article 29 and Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32131	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, for the SRS, the proposal of this Article is 29th against the law and against the constitution. It does not correspond to the spirit of the economic and economic system and the legal rules relating to this area. It's about the normative side. What is the situation in industry and entrepreneurship, let us make a few remarks to point to huge problems in these areas. Industrial production has been dropping rapidly over the last 10 years. Industry's participation in total GDP fell to 26 in 2000 and 19.4% in 2008. Industrial production in this year compared to 2006 fell by data from the ninth month about 18%. How and with what means will the AP Vojvodina start the industry when the tsunami of the industry is done? Privatisation wiped out industrial plants that were locomotives of the economic development of cities. Let's remember the huge investment activities in the '50s, '60s, '70s. It's all over now. What means? We need to talk about 50 billion euros in funds that have been going through the RS financial system in the last eight years. What was used to develop the industry? Nothing. How is the AP going to run it? Not at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32132	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32133	First of all, the content of this amendment is that the title above Article 29 and Article 29 are deleted. Article 29 states this: “Ap Vojvodina, through its authorities in the field of industry and crafts, according to the law, under one – brings a plan and a programme of balanced economic development of the AP in line with the plan of development of the RS; under two – determines the old trades which are the property of the AP Vojvodina and determines and provides measures for their improvement and development.” That's the full content of article 29. The constitution, Article 183, says: "Ap in accordance with the law regulates issues of territorial importance in the areas of industry and trade." I really don't know what kind of mental exercise a man can come up with that this is against the constitution and that's why he needs to be deleted. There is an obvious intention of these amendments to delete the entire law. So that's what this is about. It's just something to talk about. The intention is not to pass this law beyond the constitutional obligation, so that people who listen to us and watch what we're talking about know what our intention is. So, those who want to delete all members of this law, in fact, want, without respecting the constitutional obligation to determine the powers of the AP Vojvodina in accordance with the Constitution, not to have this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32134	One minute and 47 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32135	The provision of Article 29, paragraph 1, states that "AP Vojvodina brings forward a plan and a flat-rate economic development programme of the AP Vojvodina". That was in the old statute, too. What was done to bring about life in that statute and what are the levers, what are the instruments for the AP to work on even regional development today? The AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the provisions of the Privatisation Act, received 50% of the funding from privatisation. What is invested in balanced economic development? Almost nothing. What we have in the south we have all over Vojvodina, except for the New Sad, which does not develop industry, develops only construction and building apartments and maybe a little trade and trade chains. What kind of economic development? What regional economic development plan are we going to talk about today, when only in Vojvodina do we have a difference in economic development between certain municipalities a dozen times?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32136	A minute and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32137	Dear citizens of Serbia, as Colundzija said, for those who listen to us, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I would like to say only one sentence. It is true that the SRS believes that such a law cannot at all, should not and should not be passed. It is true that this law as you will bring is actually the constitution of the AP Vojvodina. It is true that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia obliges the adoption of the Statutes of the AP. So there's no obligation to pass a law like this anywhere. On the contrary, Article 37. The Constitution of the RS, which speaks of the authorities of the state administration, on trusted competences, allows certain competences to be entrusted, but they are entrusted individually to the laws, and cannot, as in this text of the law, stand—this and that area will be regulated in accordance with the law. It is a formulation of the Constitution and that is why we believe this is very dangerous and that the introduction to the secession of the AP Vojvodina from Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32138	One minute and 25 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32139	The RS Constitution in Article 177 paragraph 2 states which issues of republican and provincial importance are determined by law. If this isn't the law, you've already led the controversy with Minister Markovic about whether it's the laws, I think Mr Martinovic led the controversy, you have the right to replication, or it's the law, that is, a question that can be derailed. Is it possible by law that, or should it be done with many laws? But that this law is in accordance with the constitutional obligation for us is not at all questionable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32140	55 seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, with a measure of taking words, has the right to replicate our rules of procedure and is now getting the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32141	Thank you, Mrs. Comic, you really show that you have a warm, merciful heart. So, Mrs. Kolundjia, in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it writes nicely what the National Assembly should do when it comes to the AP. So, the Constitution is completely clear. The law determines which issues are of republican importance. What laws do they do? In the Constitution, article 183 says nice. The law on industry, the law on trade, the law on hunting, on forests and so on. And that these special laws are then governed by these areas of social life and then said – these and these issues are of republican importance, and these and these issues are of regional importance. You must take care, Mrs. Kolundjia, that the Constitution must be interpreted as a whole of its text, and not you tore two members out of the Constitution and say – here is the legal basis, and everything else is of no interest to you. So, in Article 137. The constitution, it writes nicely what jobs the Republic of Serbia can trust, not only in autonomous provinces, but also in local self-government units. It's the government's affairs. You trust this bill to autonomous provinces not to the affairs of the state administration, but to normative affairs. You trust them with the practical legislative authority of the Assembly, that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina regulates certain areas of social life with its normative acts. This is in direct contrast with Article 137. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Be careful what conclusion comes out of that attitude contained in the bill. It says -- the Republic of Serbia can trust autonomous provinces with all the questions that are normally in its jurisdiction. What does that mean? That tomorrow you can pass a law to entrust the AP Vojvodina with issues from the fields of defence, police, judiciary and so forth. Where's the line of trust in business? That limit is contained in Article 137. The affairs of the state administration can be trusted, Mrs. Kolundzija, not all the jobs in the jurisdiction of the Serbian state. That's why the SRS warns you that this is how you make up the Vojvodina state of the country. We'll have two completely parallel systems. You, by this bill, do not determine what matters of the province. You duchess hereby give this law the right to be completely independent, without these special laws, governed by certain areas of social life. That's the problem. You give up the rights of the Republic of Serbia. This is scandalous and this is what violates the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32142	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32143	So, whether the Republic of Serbia can trust in all areas of its competence to the local self-government or an autonomous province, the constitution has also unequivocally expressed itself. In 183, it very clearly defines areas where the state can trust some of the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. (Zoran Krasic, from the site: Questions, individual questions, not areas. That's exactly what we're here about, sticking to the one side of the Constitution, and on the other hand, we're trying to determine if there's anything that the Constitution didn't foresee as the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, and the law predicts it. Whether the Constitution gives, or whether this law gives the Autonomous province the opportunity to regulate certain areas within the laws of the Republic of Serbia. I would like only one member of this law to show me where it says that the autonomous province is governed by any area by its law. Therefore, all areas are defined in an unequivocally clear way that, in accordance with the law, which brings of course the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, regulates and conducts tasks under certain jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32144	A minute and 30 seconds of time used by the parliamentary group. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: I could answer the replica if you give me the word.) ) The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, and the right to the replica ends with this circle in order to clarify, clarify.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you, Mrs. Colundge, are the question you have now referred to me to direct your branch, or your party's branch in Vojvodina. In that original version, of the four versions of the proposal for the Statutes of the AP Vojvodina, Mrs Kolundzia, it was said that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina was bringing so-called “the Parliament of the Republic of Vojvodina”. The province's assembly decisions, which have the importance of law on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. If you don't believe me, look at the original version of the bill of statutes, which was adopted, if I'm not mistaken on October 14th last year. It is the version of the statutes around which one of the Democrats claimed that everything was in line with the constitution, and Democratic Party President Boris Tadic claimed it is unacceptable to create a new state on seven minutes of travel from Belgrade. So, your MPs in the Vojvodina Assembly, Mrs. Kolundjia, voted for it -- that Vojvodina has the right to make some kind of law-making decision on its territory. Now, let's face it, they're bad lawyers, so they don't know they're not saying "the meaning of the law" but "the power of the law". But in any case, those who voted in favour of the original version of the Statute proposal knew very well what they were doing - that the Vojvodina were giving the right to pass laws that would apply in its territory. Here's Mrs. Kolundji's problem in the steps to be made. First, in all these areas of social life, the Republic of Serbia must adopt laws that will make these areas fully normal, so when it norms those areas of social life, then it should say in those laws what issues are of the province's importance that an autonomous province can regulate. No, you're headed the other way. You didn't first give one autonomous province, Vojvodina, to settle some issues of regional importance, but all the issues in the area and the Republic of Serbia what remains. It's this fundamental, fundamental mistake that was made in the bill. Maybe you're not aware of her. I'm not saying you're not well-intentioned. Someone must have fooled you. That's how, Mrs. Kolundjia, it doesn't work. I've read to you one opinion, one respected professor of law school, that you can't, by one law that has the character of a Lex specialist, derogate the provisions of a whole series of special laws. It's just that it's impossible. It doesn't seem anywhere in the world. This law, which you will vote, probably Monday, does not exist in any such law, Mrs. Kolundji. You can't specify any European country where there's a law on determining jurisdiction, I don't know any region in Spain. It's not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32146	Three minutes. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32147	So what's relevant to me are the acts that are here. So we're not discussing versions that someone has seen or hasn't seen, but we're discussing those versions that are here right now. We are discussing a version of the statute sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for prior consent by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and that is the text we are discussing. At the same time we're discussing this law, and I'm not going to argue whether more laws are needed or one law is possible, I just want to say something. I understand this debate, given the fact that the Government has spoken of the amendments which have been tabled in the context of this debate that those who have submitted amendment assurances to MPs for reasons of accepting the amendment. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: It is impossible. ) As representative and president of the ZES Group, I explain our reasons why these amendments are not acceptable to us, so once again I ask that we do not speak personally. So I don't have anything personal here with anyone. On behalf of the MPs' group, who, explaining their amendments, are trying, I believe, to persuade the MPs to accept them, I only explain the reasons why it is unacceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32148	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32149	For a concrete amendment, as well as for any other concerned, indeed according to Article 137. It is not possible to trust any local self-government or autonomy to edit the area when it says here - it brings a plan and development programme, even development. Bringing the plan and the program, it's general acts, it's editing matter, it can't be, so you're asking to delete it. Afterwards, you will see, we have submitted the amendment, that is the next question, where we ask that it be renamed in the proposed plan and programme, etc. So, it can't bring, it's impossible, if you defend that formulation, but it will be in accordance with the law, believe me that it means nothing, because in any case any lower general act and you don't write it must be in agreement with the Constitution and the law, etc., it can't be contrary to any higher legal act, so it's pleonasm, it doesn't write it's pleonasm, and it doesn't take anything out. With this law we're discussing today, you're trusting the province to do something that is not possible under the Constitution, and then you're bringing it out with your senses in accordance with the law. Do you understand what the game is about? You just can't get away with the fact that you wrote that one procedure has to be arranged at the level of the province in accordance with the law. If he can't be edited by the Constitution, then you're writing it in accordance with the law. Otherwise, any decision by the municipality of Novi Belgrade, the municipality of Valjevo, the Assembly of the City of Belgrade and not to write in those statutes or in the law that it must comply, and it must always comply with the law. If you're thinking about a specific law that regulates that area, and that's too high, because that decision at the sublegal level of the sea, anyway, and you don't write, always be in agreement with the law that regulates the given matter, so that extracting it to part of the sentence -- in accordance with the law, doesn't play any role here. So the only thing here is whether the province can get the right to regulate the issue of even economic development, if we know it's an orderly issue under Article 97. The Constitution shall be directly placed in the jurisdiction of the Republic. That's where the whole structure is closed. When we talk about a mental game or a mental exercise how to come up with a solution, I'm just surprised at those who wrote this. You've gone through a terrible mental exercise to come to this conclusion, not us defending an amendment that needs to disqualify something that needs to be disqualified in terms of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32150	Two minutes 50 seconds has been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32151	The Honorable Chairman, if I understand correctly, everything can be disputed, above all from the point of view of law, the possibility that an autonomous province may have the right or not have the right to settle the issues that have been passed on to it as issues of its importance. Again, I have to go back to the Constitution, Article 183(2), which says - autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate matters of regional importance in the area, and then state what areas they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32152	It's been used 35 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Milos Aligrudic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32153	I'm going to be very brief. I'm really not gonna take the time. It is not disputed that you read in Article 183 where certain issues are said to be settled, but then we move on. I'll be very brief. See how the formulated questions are to be settled. Only the Constitution can say which areas are arranged, so when you read those areas or those questions here that are listed, that I don't read them, in Article 183 and that are arranged, the original jobs. Do you understand? So, you can't just count all the questions that the Constitution has raised here, what autonomous provinces are going to do here, these are the original jobs in the part where they're listed to be arranged. There's no dispute here, but be careful, this isn't about the original business, this is about a business called even development. You won't find even development here in article 183, he's listed in article 97 explicitly. That's what this is about. So please, though we are lawyers, who have learned to read the regulations, we know something about all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32154	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32155	So now you've obviously admitted that an autonomous province has the right to regulate. Now it's an attempt to avoid being told - only if it's the original jurisdiction, not if it's entrusted. So, if it is entrusted with this law, the Republic of Serbia regulates what jobs it trusts and in what extent it trusts them, but that an autonomous province cannot have anything that is a question of development that negates the point of Article 183, which says that the autonomous province regulates the issue of territorial importance in the area of spatial planning and development.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32156	Right on line, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32157	You're right to write it, it's not controversial, but for clarification, and I won't answer again. Development that, but in the Constitution in our legislation, the issue of even development is not a game of words, it is a very serious matter, it refers to broad territory and is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Republic. Therefore, the question of development can be municipal development, it can be rural development, I agree with you there, but so you did not write in the bill of law which is controversial. That's what this is about. You are in the bill of members of the law, not you, but the government that proposed it has written something quite different, it says - it is a plan and a programme of even economic development of the AP Vojvodina, and this syntagma is impossible. I'm sorry, if that syntagma had been given somewhere else in the Constitution sooner as a possibility, there would have been no dispute over this, but it's impossible. That's what this is about. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32158	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32159	I'm really trying to understand how now that he doesn't have the right to edit has the right to edit, how he has the right to regulate development issues, and now he doesn't have a very balanced economic development, and then he has the right to have a balanced economic development of Vojvodina. So, Article 29 of the law that we are discussing at point 1 says that it brings the plan and the programme of a balanced economic development of the AP Vojvodina in line with the plan for the development of the Republic of Serbia. I only read what it says, and it says exactly what the Constitution predicted the AP could do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32160	National MP Milos Aligrudic, has the right to the last line and to close the circle around the clarification of this member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32161	I don't want any more, no matter what Mrs. Kolundji answers, because I think it's really enough of this exchange of views. I'll just take a minute. So the problem is that we don't have time here, and that's not possible, that we really read the Constitution every time. You see, the difference between the idea of economic development that a province can take care of, as can the municipality of its economic development, is one, and the formulation - even economic development is reserved for the Republic's jurisdiction because the idea of taking care of this is evenly developed. It is possible to imagine logically that it is also a balanced development of a part of a republic compared to other small parts of that territory, it is possible to imagine logically, but there is no resistance in the Constitution. That's two different categories. Do you understand? That's what I'm talking about. You may disagree, but it's just like that. So economic development is one thing. No one disputes the Vojvodina to take care of its economic development, but when you use the Syntagma - even economic development in the territory of Vojvodina in line with the even development of the Republic, this syntagma is constitutionally impossible because it turns out that Vojvodina works within its territory, provides even development, what the Republic does, and the Republic has an obligation, not to coordinate the even development of the Vojvodina with the rest of Serbia, but every souled municipality on the territory of Vojvodina, which is what it is, and so businesses cannot be doubled. That's logically impossible. That's what I'm explaining to you, if you can understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32162	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32163	So, as I understand it, the only logical thing is that every municipality, city, and autonomous province and the Republic of Serbia take care of balanced economic development, and so the municipality should make sure that all parts of it develop evenly, as the city should take care of it, and hence, the autonomous province takes care to develop evenly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32164	It's been used 30 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia -- Vojislav Kostunica -- submitted to the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32165	Thank you. We are still with a member above whom the title – Industry and craftsmanship stands. I will read the basic principles, Article 82. A constitution that speaks about economic regulation and public finances. Article 2 says: "The Republic of Serbia is a unique economic area with a single market in goods, labour, capital and services. “ If you notice, the word unique is used twice in that attitude. What consists of our amendment and what we dispute is that the AP independently brings its plan and programme of even development. We propose and believe that the Republic of Serbia must have a single plan for a balanced economic development and that the AP authorities suggest that, of course, the specificity of this area, or AP, should be respected under this single plan. Of course, you are here in this article where you suggest that it independently brings up a plan of economic development you build on a sentence – in line with the development plan of the Republic of Serbia. As a fellow lawyer has said, that's something to say. What happens if, for example, you have a different power at one point in this duchy government that you create, a different political option than the one that is in Belgrade, so they absolutely disagree, how will you solve the issues, if the plan and the programme are not in line with the general plan of the Republic. As far as craftsmanship is concerned, you say here – it determines old crafts. It seems to me that at this point, the only craft that is developing, flourishing and booming, thanks to DS in Vojvodina, is the craft of separatism and separation and denacification.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32166	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32167	I use the right to reply, since the previous speaker has insulted the party he belongs to, in a way I find extremely inappropriate. We have a controversy here about a single text, and the qualifications of a group of individuals, I don't think they fit anyone who wants to be called a Parliamentarian. In that sense, I ask that what we're talking about be the text we're talking about. Obviously, when there are no arguments, it's best to resort to disqualifications. The only thing that makes sense is that anyone who has jurisdiction takes care of the economic development that this entity is. If it takes the obligation to take care of even development, then, indeed, there is only logic in it and if someone advocates something else, it is in conflict with logic, however defined in some other acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32168	MP Zoran Krasic. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32169	I'm cultured, Mrs. Comic, so I'm not going to say it's a replica, because someone gave it to themselves. I use the time my party has. Dear citizens, for every member of this bill, the same debate can be held – whether it is agriculture, whether it is water economy, whether it is hunting, fishing, hunting and fishing. The Constitution states – you have the right to hunt and fish, you have entered into action – hunting and fishing, etc. The main point is that this bill of law and statute cannot be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Kolundjia, since you are the paradigm of this movement to pass such a law, so you defend, and the government is silent. The government is ashamed of this bill, they won't defend it, you're defending it. I have to talk to you. Of course, when I spoke to you, I addressed both DS and Boris Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic and everyone, since you are their representative. I need to draw your attention to something. You have to read article 187 exactly as it's written, you know? Article 187 of the first position states that something may be of the province importance, but it is not determined what it is. It is said, which can be accomplished in a meaningful way. What is very important in this view is that it is issues that are not in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia as a state. That's the end of this first position. We are now arriving at Article 187(2). He says very simply, you see, what questions are of, so to skip this, the province's significance is determined by law. This could be a law that determines questions of the province's importance. However, there is a problem. Do you know why? What you are in this type of law, the bill that is a mix, which is intended to cover this in Article 187 of Article 2 and Article 183(2), is intended to cover this. You're also inserting what's in Article 137. It's grandmothers and frogs. When you move this to Article 137, it's the original administrative business. Article 137, first position, so I don't waste my time, it's clear. It refers to what is the competent state of the Republic of Serbia, the state government, not a province government that is not a state government. That's where the problems come in. Look, to settle a question, it's one segment of one big area. The area can have 1,000 different questions. It is estimated by law what is the province's significance, which does not endanger the republic, so the AP is given. No, now you're going through the bill by giving the entire area away. When I say complete areas, then you give state jurisdiction to the AP in almost every member. This member may not be a paradigm for what I told you, but that's the problem. The problem is, you can say the AP can't pass the laws. They don't need laws. For their intent, some sitting there, they don't even need the law. The laws were not needed by Milo Djukanovic either. He couldn't regulate the issue of the military, so he formed a parapolitan unit there that was doing the whole job. Officially, he didn't have to have customs, because customs was on federal level, so he built a customs service. At Brodarev's, we had to legitimize when we came in. That's the problem. This law is absolutely unconstitutional. You'll see. You've even given this law a lot more areas than it says in the statutes. You've even given local self-government to an autonomous province, but we'll get to that member. Unnecessarily unnecessarily bad message. We know very well who you are and what you are. So one is jurisdiction, the other is questions, the third is area, the fourth is important. I agree that there is a problem in defining the jurisdiction of the AP. He really exists. It's not just a problem in Serbia, it's a problem on planet Earth, in all countries. Why? Because there's no area of social life that's not regulated by the Constitution or some state-level law. This law gives appropriate self-government and autonomy to lower bodies, other forms of citizen organisation in some territory. Therefore, what Martinovic said, if this is to be settled with 150 laws, 150 laws should be dealt with. How? With two or three provisions in each law, it is said – this settles, this is of the province importance, this is of local importance. But it must not endanger the state. It can't endanger the state's functions. You can't compromise a first-degree and second-degree procedure, you can't hand over a first-degree procedure. If you've given the second degree procedure, then there's no jurisdiction. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32170	The time used is 5.45 minutes. Time is available for 11 minutes. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32171	We're going back to that controversy whether one law should regulate all these questions or whether it should regulate 150 laws. I think it's rational when it's regulated by one law. I don't think that's contrary to the Constitution or any other law. Now that leaves a question that can be derailed. In my deep conviction, and our belief was that it was rational to do it with one law. Whether or not jurisdiction is given in more areas than the Constitution has predicted, I would like you to give me an area in which more jurisdiction is given without the Constitution predicting an area. So, a question of interest to Vojvodina, one to state. As for the level of jurisdiction given and which is obvious for some of the controversial ones, as far as we are concerned, we think that the key thing is to ensure the unity of the state, that everything regarding the legislative authority is exclusively at the level of the Republic of Serbia, all issues are governed by the Republic of Serbia, or all laws are passed by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, it's... I don't know what else can be more necessary to ensure Serbia's unity, except that all issues are governed by the laws of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Whether some assumed separatist, secessionist, etc. There are ideas somewhere and whether the Constitution gave those who did it in the previous period the possibility of doing it, you yourself claimed it wasn't. Analyzing the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, you have proved that no constitution and no law has provided the basis for the processes that have occurred, and they have, unfortunately, happened. To threaten what was happening in the context of achieving the Constitution of the guaranteed Autonomous province of Vojvodina, I think it is not politically correct and that is what we have pointed to as a sowing of fear among the citizens of Serbia, because all that has been happening has caused enormous fear and it is true that Serbian citizens have an increased level of sensitivity to all that can be associated with such processes. That is why it is not correct to associate what we are now doing with these processes, because, as you yourself said, there was no basis for these processes either in the constitutions or in the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32172	Three minutes and nine seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Zoran Krasic, right to replication on the basis of a direct question to lead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32173	Mrs. Kolundjia, I would only ask you to understand me very well. What's this about? In 2000, we had an SRJ. Obviously it was necessary for some to be treated. You set out to organize, not you directly, not Gordana Komic, no one individually, but one political option that was dominant, DOS, has set out to settle these relations and has reached the Constitutional Charter of the State Community. It has been said, "Let it be better this loose, only that we may be together." You know, she's talking -- two eyes so they don't have to be a leprechaun, etc. Then something completely legitimate happened, so the Republic of Montenegro gained its independence and then, as the G17 plus and the LDP said, Serbia thus gained some independence. We've been warning you all the time what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on. You have also tried so hard to defend your political attitudes, to call on us to use conspiracy theory, to sow fear, and this, etc., but simply, the facts and some experience have shown that we were right, and that in time we warned about what it was about. It's very important and it has to be understood. When we talk about this bill and this statute, I have to tell you, they use different synonyms here for very precise political and legal processes. Here's the answer, Mrs. Comic, to what Mrs. Kolundzija has set. Take Article 10 and Article 11 of the proposal of this law and find the biggest expert on urbanism, spatial planning in this country. You will not be listed any of the things left in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, the Government and the Ministry, and it concerns law enforcement by the republican authorities in the territory of the AP. Why? In Article 10, you took full spatial planning, such as a job or an area within the jurisdiction of the AP, and in article 11, you kept the first-degree procedure and now you took a second-degree procedure, an examination by appeal. What remains of the area of urbanism and spatial planning at the level of the Republic, from the perspective of the possibility of the republican authorities to ask themselves some questions about what is done, how is it built? You will – the highway, maybe the railways, etc., but you questioned a citizen who makes the house, so let's say he didn't get permission, so he complains. His appeal procedure ends in Novi Sad, and all other citizens in the Republic of Serbia from other territories, if they want to conduct a second-degree procedure, must ask the competent state authority, the authority of the administration, that is the ministry or otherwise as the ministry has organised...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32174	Three minutes. Thank you. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32175	I end up, let me say, this circle of replicas, because what you have stated as an area that is not foreseen by the Constitution, and in this law is an area that is provided for by the Constitution, and that is why it is in this Constitution. You have now tried to explain that the degree of jurisdiction, not the area, or the question, or how can we say that, the amount of jurisdiction, is freely said, too. I just wanted to briefly comment, I mean, when it comes to the breakup of the former country and all the processes that were going on, I think there was more tolerance, more understanding, that there was more awareness of what the needs of time and moment were, that there was more sensitivity to some things in politics, maybe it wouldn't have ended that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32176	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32177	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you, Mrs. Kolundji, are mistaken in one initial premise. We told you in the principle debate, we called for the opinion of legal theorists, that even under the Constitution of 1974, the former Yugoslav republics could not secede, because the right to self-determination, including the right to secession, stood as the preamble of the SFRJ Constitution. The peoples and ethnicities of the SFRY, starting from the inalienable right of every nation to self-determination, including the right to secession, have created SFRY and from that formulation Radomir Lukic, Jovan Djordjevic and other legal theorists have drawn the following conclusion – Yugoslav peoples have consumed their right to their self-determination, including the right to secede with the fact that Yugoslavia was created. That right was used and it's gone. That was the attitude of legal theory. Unfortunately, the international community has recognised illegal independence both in Slovenia, Croatia, and BiH, etc. and the fact that the international community has legalized something that was not otherwise legal is the cause of bloodshed, mass banishment, ethnic cleansing, etc. Why are you repeating that same mistake now? Why are you now giving someone the opportunity to legalize something that is not under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? It's a fundamental question. Even Slovenia couldn't break away from Yugoslavia, so it secededed. What do we do now? You say - it was not in accordance with the Constitution. Yes, but someone died because of it. There's nothing we can do about it now. Let's not repeat the mistake then, now that it is the Republic of Serbia, that is, when it comes to one part of the AP Vojvodina. Mrs. Kolundzhija, the following question is also asked here: is it possible that in the Republic of Serbia everything is great, there are no problems, just to give citizens the right to, as you say, a broad autonomy of the AP Vojvodina and their life will be great. It's not like that, Mrs. Kolundjia. Absolutely not. You ignore the fact that the Republic of Serbia is a small country. This need for broad autonomy exists in large countries, where cities, municipalities are territorially far away from each other. You today, with a hundred liters of diesel, can cross Serbia along and across. For what? What fear you sow with citizens, now some terrible Belgrade exploits you, you should manage. Explain to me what particular benefit a citizen living in Kikindi will benefit from all this you're doing? Will she have new jobs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32178	Three minutes. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji, right on the line, direct question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32179	Again, I just want to say that I'm not the one you're supposed to be dealing with right now, I'm just explaining why some amendments are unacceptable and I want to say something -- that, I deeply believe, since 2000, we haven't been repeating that mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32180	The People's MP, Milorad Buha, submitted to the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32181	As with the previous member, as with this, the SRS considers that it is anti-constitutional and that it is contrary to a number of legal regulations relating to the following activities: the performance of road, river and rail traffic. Namely, the proposal for this member provides for a number of provisions in the laws in this area and this is harmful to the interests of the Republic of Serbia. It's about the normative side. What's going on in real life? How do you do it in Vojvodina? Have an example from two nights ago, when on a political show, Finance Secretary Jovica Djukic is on the question of journalists - how will you finance the new 150 works, the areas you receive under this law and by the statute? He's dead cold saying -- well, we've been doing it so far, we've funded these actions. How do you justify funding the work of which the AP Vojvodina does not have the right? By abuse of law. The Executive Greater Vojvodina directly violates the provisions of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Budgetary System, because it finances actions that are not in charge. How do they really do that? First they finance, then through budget rebalancing, they put it into budget decisions. That's how the province works. Why don't you take the rest of the hundred others now, just like she's done so far? It doesn't make any difference. That's what the SRS is afraid of, from abuse of rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32182	A group of 19 MPs from the DSS group submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs of the DSS and the People's MP, Milorad Buh, submitted to the 31st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Shami, and the messenger of the people, Milorad Bhuh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32183	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, especially all 20 MPs from the majority, who are in the O.R., Mr. Minister, if you can hear me, because you're busy, before I begin to explain the amendment, just to say something: I sincerely hope Mrs. Kolundjia will report at least 114 more times today, because it's psychologically completely justified, when the child tells her five times that no one has broken the window, then it will be that the window is broken after all. I understand the need of the DSS for justice, and there's something to be justified with this law and this statute. As for the amendments, the member is very short and says: "Ap Vojvodina, through its bodies, in the areas of public roads, road, river and rail traffic, in accordance with the law, conducts inspection controls on the territory of the AP Vojvodina". Our amendment is even shorter and says this should be deleted. In order to avoid suspicion, this is not about disagreement with the Constitution, this is about disagreement with common sense and brains. Namely, if something is related to the territory of a country, it is a number of businesses in all areas of traffic, all the branches of traffic. They, moreover, go beyond the borders of a country. Believe me, perhaps the largest number of conventions in Europe has been brought right out of the area of traffic. Now you're saying someone's doing inspection work, for example on the railroad, to the bridge at Panchev's, and the south of there someone else is going to do inspection work. That's ridiculous. You can say the same thing about the Danube River and everything else that's listed here. In other words, it is doubtless that this member of the law regulates something that should not be regulated like this. Allow me a few notes regarding the debate we've had these days. I listened very carefully, especially to representatives of those parties and those who are in power and those who are not in power, who defend these laws and statutes. I noticed there were two things running through those defenses. One of these things is, for God's sake, a great desire and a great concern for Serbia's decentralisation. Decentralisation in Serbia is not at all controversial but unfortunately this law and statute do not decentralise, they are doing a new centralisation, because instead of one centre -- Belgrade, you will now have two centres. You will have a Belgrade and an asymmetric centre, asymmetrically compared to the rest of Serbia, which is Novi Sad. What do the citizens of Somboro, Pancheva, Sremska Mitrovica, Subotica of this law and this statute have? Do they get something that instead of their money going to Belgrade, they go to Novi Sad or, worse still, to go to both Belgrade and Novi Sad. If you really want to do decentralisation in Serbia, then leave it to the municipalities of Vojvodina, but also to van Vojvodina, one part of their original incomes. Here, cut state taxes and introduce municipal taxes, and then each municipality will have an interest in making as much money as possible and will not create empty places throughout Serbia across major cities in the city centre. They sound empty because local authorities have no interest, because they do not collect revenues from the transport of goods, services, etc. Another thing that also extends and is somewhere common to everyone, whether they want to wash their conscience, whether they want to stay in power for a day or a month, or for those who are not in power, or for some reason: I will do what I can, so if my friends remember me - they remember me. It's that they try to convince us all the time how it's possible to be a little pregnant. Being a little pregnant, unfortunately, is not possible. Of course, what leaves me personally a bitter taste in my mouth (President: People's Parliament, the time available to the MPs' group has expired. It is that I am afraid, I am very afraid, that you are doing with this statute and this law to the state of Serbia what pregnancy usually precedes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32184	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32185	For the sake of the public, I must read the provisions of the bill, Article 31: The Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, through its authorities, in the areas of public roads of road, river and rail traffic, in accordance with the law, is conducting inspection controls on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Formally-legally, she's done it so far. In what way? The ministry responsible for the tasks of road, river and rail transport had an organ, a dislocated body, an organisational unit whose headquarters was in the AP Vojvodina, in the province's executive council. All rights were exercised through the Ministry. According to this article's proposal, this law, they are in fact coming out of the ministry's organisational work and becoming the regional authority of the administration. The funds for profits for material, immaterial expenses were received from the republican budget, and now all of this will be financed from the province's budget. It's just not going to be the number of workers that have been so far, but probably times two, times three, etc. What will the citizens of Vojvodina get? objectively, what will get more in the jurisdiction of these workers than they have so far? This is so irrational, it's bordering on simple logic, because everything they've done so far will work in the future, except the cost will fall to the cost of the province's government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32186	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32187	Anyway, I suggest you not accept the amendment. I only point out that Ambassador Milorad Buha did not read Article 31, but only one part of Article 31.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32188	The title above Articles 32 and 32 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32189	As with the previous member, I am not going to read it now, so that I will not collude with individual MPs, but I will only give a certain interpretation. I again believe, which is the view of the SRS, that it is an anti-constitutional and illegal provision and that, as such, it derivates certain legal regulations in a vague way, that the law itself is a fur, that it is incomplete, will cause enormous problems. On the other hand, what worries the SRS is that behind all this is DS, that's evident. However, it is the centres of power that are conducting the DS that require certain moves both political and economic and financial. So, all this stuff that's been done, it's made by the dictatorship of someone on the outside. Those who hold finances, those who hold political power, are not DS people. This best shows this dispersion, etc., these are the divisions that are caused by the outside, and we're experiencing repercussions here. We have four examples of specific projects of legal and other sublegal acts that we're getting here, and basically it's all caused from the outside. It's a fearsome SRS. It is a concern for the people of Vojvodina, that certain other projects will occur that will violate the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, break it down and we will have what no one wants, which is the secession of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32190	The word is by MP Vlatko Ratkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32191	I suggest that the amendment of my colleague, Milorad Buhe, be rejected for two reasons. The first reason is the provision of Article 183, which says, among other things, that the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the law, regulates issues of regional importance in the area, including the organisation of fairs and other business events. That's the title of chapter 10. The content of this constitutional provision has been developed in Article 32. The draft law, so that the AP Vojvodina, through its bodies and according to the law, edits fairs and other economic manifestations of the province and regulates the establishment of categorisation and way of work of fair centres and regulates the network of fair and other business events in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I mention just one more fact, which is that the Novi Sad Fair has an extremely long tradition and that it promotes, not only in the areas of economy, tourism, etc., something only applies to the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but to the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, and what is also extremely significant, the fair promotes the Republic of Serbia all its potentials because it is an international character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32192	One minute and 28 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. On the title and subtitle above Articles 33 and 33, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32193	We have submitted amendments to Articles 33, 34, 35 and 36 that regulate jobs in the area of education. Together with all these amendments, we simply kept from this number of jobs listed here in the law some reasonable jobs that should be done by an autonomous province. As soon as this meeting is over, I'll continue. So, of course, we have come from the basic fact that education is something of, probably, vital state interest, that the organisation of education in the territory of the whole country must be unique and carried out on the same terms for all, conditions that are better or worse, depending on how much of the state's will or money it invests in education and that simple jobs can't be transferred to lower authorities or to an autonomous province. For example, in Article 33, one of the jobs that we think shouldn't be standing here, he says - gives consent to an act on a network of elementary schools that brings together local self-government units, based on criteria established by the government. You know, a network of elementary schools is probably made up of some common logic for the whole country. Why would one logic make the rules, I don't know, in eastern Serbia or Užica, and the other logic in Kikinda or Somboro? Therefore, it is a job carried out by the Ministry of Education, and we think that it should continue exclusively to be carried out by the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32194	National MP, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32195	Thank you, I will continue, since they are related amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32196	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia group submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national emissary Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32197	Dear colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, this is another in a series of amendments that the Progressive Serb-SNS parliamentary group submitted to bring this bill into line with the highest legal act by the Republic of Serbia. The provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia cannot be applied selectively. I say this because when individuals say the constitutional obligation is to pass this law, they adhere to the Constitution, and on the other hand, they violate certain provisions of the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisioned two autonomous provinces, as well as their competences and no law can extend those powers. For this reason, my colleagues and I have submitted an amendment to Article 33 relating to pre-school and primary education and education. The amendment proposed that the words "Republic of Serbia" be deleted from point 5) and point 6 be deleted. Point 5) says the AP Vojvodina in the field of pre-school and primary education and education gives its agreement on a decision to expand the activity of the institution, the founder of which is the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina or the units of local self-government. We cannot put a lower instance ahead of more instance, nor put an autonomous province in front of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment also proposed erasing point 12) that the AP Vojvodina prescribes a school calendar for primary schools in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, which requires a school calendar for the AP Vojvodina to be prescribed differently than for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. We also predicted that points 17, 19 and 20 should be deleted. All these provisions that I have listed are unconstitutional and we believe that the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia has jurisdiction, and therefore I suggest that you accept this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32198	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the subheading above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. MP Zoran Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32199	I'll pick up where I left off, it's the same stuff, it's just about high school. What's particularly touching my eyes is one of the jobs that's being transferred to the autonomous province. It is said: "Agreement with the competent minister approves textbooks and teaching tools for individual subjects of interest to national minorities". All national minorities in the state of Serbia should have the same rights, the same obligations, all the same. Why would the Albanians in southern Serbia or Bosniaks in Sandzak or some third national minority outside the territory of the Duke's textbooks be prescribed exclusively by the Minister of Education and for national minorities living in the territory of the province of Vojvodina and even for those living outside the territory and on the territory of the government in the autonomous province? I don't see that logic, and I don't see any guarantee that all national minorities will be in an equal position. The same thing that applied to primary schools is mentioned in Article 34. He says, "is establishing a network of high schools in the territory of the AP Vojvodina." A network of secondary schools on the territory of the Serbian state must be regulated in an equal manner, with equal initial assumptions, with an equal strategy to implement it. I therefore see no reason for this business to be transferred to the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32200	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32201	Dear Vice President, honourable Members of Parliament, always on the question of why we can say that we did not have to move on from the traditional and the usual. To this question why, we might be able to seek the answer from the founder himself. We may not even know why the founder prescribed something, but we have to admit that the founder did make something. Article 79. The constitution entitled "Right to Preservation of Specificity" in its final position says that under the Constitution, under the law, province regulations can establish additional rights for members of national minorities. We can express disagreement in terms of political disagreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but we cannot dispute that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows it and leaves it as an opportunity for the AP of Vojvodina. Here I quoted a member of the Constitution who stands in the minority rights department, but also when it comes to the department relating to the jurisdiction and position of the Autonomous province, there is one member who is just predicting that additional rights of national minorities can be established in the AP regulations. What's the reason? Personally, I think the result of this reason is this law and envisaged, which is that 28 national minorities live in the AP Vojvodina. If we know on the basis of the National Councils Act, we now have a report on the formation of 19 national councils, and that more than one third has its headquarters on central Serbia's territory, and the rest are on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, this means that a large number of national minorities do not enter the general framework of the Constitution and the general framework of legislation. That is why the constitutionalist predicted the possibility that because of the national minorities that are few, which is the specificity of that part of the Republic of Serbia, which is guaranteed by this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to pay special attention to them. At the end of the line, this is one of the responsibilities, one of the jobs and tasks that are not newspapers, but since 2002, according to the Law establishing special competences, such as the right to establish networks of high school institutions belongs to an autonomous province, and since we often forget that when we argue, the Autonomous Province is part of the Republic of Serbia, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has given the Autonomous Region that jurisdiction, which we forget is not only the right but is also an obligation, then there is no dilemma that the founder in a very delicate way managed to ensure that national minorities in the part of the Republic of Serbia, which is called the AP Vojvodina, enjoy certain rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32202	Right on the line, MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32203	Mr. Minister, you're knocking on the open door. I did not dispute at all the constitutional provision that national minorities in the province's territory, for the reasons you have stated, could be given additional rights or additional obligations, anyway. That's not the point. The point is, I don't think it's an additional right for the province to approve the textbooks. This is not an additional right for national minorities. So all you said is, it just doesn't have anything to do with what we talked about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32204	Minister Chiplic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32205	The approval of textbooks is certainly in the domain of the exercise of the rights of all national minorities, so in this case the minorities living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia regarding education. What we can all confirm is that often the approval of these textbooks represents a job for the ministry which is an additional effort, and in terms of decentralisation of the function, so that this function is as flexible as possible and in the sense that this function should serve every citizen, and in this case to those citizens whose children are educated and educated in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or, even better, in accordance with the guarantee of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then the approval of textbooks of a decentralisation of competences that will not harm and harm anyone. Secondly, one decentralisation that certainly wants to lead to something good, that students have textbooks in accordance with what the Constitution guarantees and in which there is no mechanism, or if you want, there is a mechanism that any problem that could possibly or any doubt that could possibly arise from this function, the Republic Ministry will be able to remove. In other words, if a textbook appeared that the RS would estimate that it was not on any basis in line with the RS education system, plan and programme, the RS ministry could correct such a problem. So there's no dilemma.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32206	MP Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32207	Mr. Minister, here's an example. You have Romanians, they also live in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, but also in the territory of Serbia outside the AP Vojvodina. Now for these Romanians on this side of the Danube and the Sava Minister, it will be determined by the Ministry of Education. It's okay. For those Romanians over the Danube and Save will determine the AP. What logic does that make? I don't think the AP has been given any special authority by approval of textbooks or by a network of schools, you're going to say under the 1982 law. I personally think it was wrong then, but well, we're not discussing that law. So it's about these things that don't make sense. It doesn't make sense, there is a mechanism that approves textbooks for members of national minorities. It must be unique and apply to all national minorities, regardless of whether anyone lived in the territory of the AP Vojvodina or lived in the territory outside the AP Vojvodina. There are national minorities who, after all, also exist in Belgrade, Hungary, why not?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32208	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32209	I find this debate very important, because this is how we are going to exploit the mechanism that is being challenged in parliament, which is quite legitimate, but the mechanism that exists and works very much where it works, I cannot say impeccablely, but in a way that does not create problems for children who need to enjoy this right. Namely, when it comes to Romanians, I believe I will not make a mistake, only 10% of Romanians live in part of RS territory that does not cover the AP Vojvodina territory, which does not enter the territory of the AP Vojvodina. When we cross this law, and this law respects what is already in the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, then we will see that this jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, as well as the jurisdiction of the Republic Ministry, intersects with the national council, in this case, the Romanian national minorities, which in this case proposes to the authorities of the AP Vojvodina textbooks, and since the Romanian National Council is registered with its headquarters in Novi Sad, then given that fact, it is done with the assistance of the province's authorities. So, when it comes to Roma, which are all over RS, the National Council of Roma is registered in Belgrade and the RS ministry. The National Council of Roma shall determine those textbooks. When it comes to this part, about education, I am personally convinced that the system is set up so that no one will suffer. On the contrary, that children who are, that is, the fact that they have suffered so far, let's say, from 2004 to 2008, because they did not have the textbooks to which the law obliges them, or gives them the right to have, in this case they will indeed have these textbooks. It seems to me that this part of the law is unwarranted, this function, this authority of the AP was attacked without any basis, especially not new, on the one hand, and especially that it works very well on the territory of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32210	The 34th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32211	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment is part of a few of our amendments that the MP group Advanced Serbia, the SNS, has submitted and concerns education education. In a concrete amendment, relating to Article 34, several points have been proposed to be deleted, deeming them unconstitutional and corrective that we have made at points 6 and 7, to go from them, where practically AP authorities are given the right to give consent to some decisions by institutions whose founder is RS, which is really unconstitutional and not right. We have points here that were just spoken of, to delete point 13, where a high school calendar for AP Vojvodina territory is prescribed, then point 19, where the authorities of the AP Vojvodina are given to nostrification and recognition of the equivalence of the testimonies acquired abroad. Point 22 to adopt educational programmes for the languages of national minorities and to approve textbooks and curricula. We propose that these points be deleted, viewing them as unconstitutional, if we start from being unique for every country, including our education, education, education from the crucial interest, that education should be unilaterally doctrinal, professional, methodological, organized unique for all of Serbia and that there are no specialities in the school calendar, in making curricula for national minorities, as well as textbooks that are common to the rest of Serbia, and that it should still be in the RS's authority, regardless of the previous discussion. That is why I believe that these amendments should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32212	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Gentlemen of the Government, this is an amendment that we never wanted to enter into any other controversy over this bill, and I believe that at least in the first part, it was inevitable that you would accept it. Here's why. First of all, a member of 34 handles the area of secondary education and education. We put the amendment in part one at point 26. The law states this: "For secondary schools of special interest for RS and unique schools, it proposes to the local self-government assembly three prominent representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, employers' associations, national employment services, trade unions and other interested school members." It refers, of course, to the powers and appointments of a person who will be members of the school board. School boards are particularly sensitive bodies. These are the bodies that aren't paid. These are bodies that have to function with special motivation and above all with knowledge of the problems they deal with. People who will know the problems of secondary unique schools or schools that are of particular importance must be chosen. So we suggested that in the school board instead of all those mentioned here, which would come exclusively for the political key and would not be of any use to the school, because I do not see any healthy motivation in these numbers, that point 26, after saying: "local self-government" the text is deleted until the end and replaced by the words: "to propose two prominent experts from the areas for which the school educates staff for members of the school board". So all the people who stood out right in that profession, who can professionally, qualified to help in school work. That's what's very important. Think about it, say High School. Imagine a representative of the Chamber of Commerce or representatives of the union, or any of these persons, how important his involvement in the work of the school board at the High Ballet School or High School of Music, for example, is in the new direction of sound design. That is how this amendment should have taken into account, above all, its well-meaning and expertise and included it as an amendment that has already been accepted, if you do not already decide to accept it at the session when voting on amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32214	Fifty seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The subtitle above the 35th and the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of the 19-nation MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32215	In this article, which refers to higher education, and we have only left out some of the jobs that were found in this list by our proposal for jobs carried out by the AP Vojvodina. I'm going to do two of these special apostrophes. One of the jobs is said – independent higher education institutions are established. Look, we in the state have two kinds of higher education institutions - state colleges and private colleges. Now we're going to have county colleges. If we know, and we know that such a definition does not exist, that there are province colleges, then the only logical interpretation is to treat the province as a state. Be careful what other provinces do. It says – it issues permits for the work of higher education institutions on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So, all that the state of Serbia is doing, all the procedures that exist for some college to be verified, to meet the conditions that are prescribed. So it is not said how, in which way, in which methodology, it writes nothing, neither according to the law, nor in accordance with some rule of play, it does not, but says – issue a licence for the work of higher education institutions. Of course we suggested that this job be deleted, as well as this job of establishing independent higher education institutions. I don't see why you should. Let's give it right, and we'll start a Valjev Academy of Sciences and Arts, then a college of pleasure and so on. I don't understand what this is about. I'm afraid I understand, but it's not worth talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32216	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32217	In this case, dear professor, we don't have a lot of opportunities, since the Higher Education Act is already predicting it. This provision, in fact, existing, right, jurisdiction, which has been in existence since 2002, and by the Law on Higher Education, that's how it stands, so if we didn't put it, then we'd actually have something that stands in the second law. At the end of the line, I don't see why the Law on Higher Education when it already gives that jurisdiction to an autonomous province, when an autonomous province according to that code of origin has that right, why in the law, in which we are now discussing, if we already have the ambition to create a transparent, precise, clear range of competences of affairs and tasks for the AP Vojvodina, so there won't be any problems in advance, why would we now keep it quiet, and by the Law on Higher Education already have that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32218	The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the Progress Serbia Group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32219	Here, let's see what we've done with this build-up made by two political parties, as some kind of, hopefully a devolving will, a very near-stricken will, to do in the sphere of higher education. I've heard the minister's argument, I've heard a comment from my colleagues, but when I issue a certificate to higher education institutions, it's not the same thing as it was in Omnibus Law, under which conditions were established for the establishment of colleges, although the province can establish universities and universities. So we come into college with Article 41. The law on higher education or at least we didn't have to install it into this law. We didn't have to go to point 5 either), because we're proposing to delete a few points, I'm going to count the most important points. We didn't have to agree to this law, to decide where the students would continue to finish school when they stopped working on a higher education facility, not by the Ministry. We did not have to stipulate, in law, that by declaring a diploma, in Article 101, point 1), we would declare it invalid, that it was done by the Autonomous Authority of the province, but that it was done according to the law as provided for by the ministry. Article 104 and Article 105. The Higher Education Act provides for the department's competences, not for the authorities of the Autonomous Province, which must and inevitably comply with the transfer of competences. So that's why we suggest that points 2), 4), 6), 7), 8), 9) and 10 are deleted and about to be reduced to something more than the levels that, according to the previous law on the transfer of jurisdiction, the omnibus law as you call it, had. We should really wonder, if this is how we adopt ourselves, whether these students, who clearly recognize the bad effects of Bologna, can receive them in Belgrade and direct them all to Novi Sad. There's no difference. Will the enrollment, practically, one day wait for the surprise that the priority, whatever, especially from the aspect of Article 9, or if some sublegal act would give priority to some preferential minority, or someone else, that everyone would not be directly enrolled, then there are huge problems, here is which we did not foresee at the Higher Education Act – and here are the students on the streets. The shortness of time, I'm sorry, because I could still talk to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32220	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32221	I understand that we can discuss the measure, the jurisdiction, the way higher education institutions apply individual rights and obligations. I didn't like it, maybe I misunderstood, and I wouldn't want there to be the slightest suspicion in the public: when we talk about national minorities and higher education institutions, the only national minority who is rightly privileged, and as far as enrolment is concerned, is the Roma national minority. For all higher education institutions, they were founded by the state, whether they are private, all citizens, or all candidates for studies are equal. It is perfectly justified that the Roma national minority, that our fellow citizens, freshmen of Roma nationality, have that kind of privilege. That kind of privilege is guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia. I believe that's not controversial. Everyone else is equal. So we can never talk about a minority at the expense of a majority having the privilege of education or in some case, in a situation that stems from the functioning of a higher education institution. That doesn't stand here. Not a single jurisdiction, which since 2002, but to the greatest extent, but certainly under the Law on Higher Education, which has been woven here, therefore, neither of these responsibilities can be discriminated against on any basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32222	The People's MP Mileta Poscurica has the right to replication, clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32223	Mr. Minister, of course you were talking about something I didn't mention. This is just an example, if we abuse what we wanted to destroy with our amendment to Article 9, Article 9, where the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina can adopt a sublegal act and thus regulate the state of enforcement of someone, but the law and law that, for example, is passed today and while Tadic signs it, they can, overnight, form one sublegal act for implementation and perform a miracle in terms of enrolment and not necessarily be a national minority. The more you talk about Roma, the more I don't think about it, the more I might think about someone else who's been involved in composing this bill, if you'd bid on minorities, but it doesn't get to me. So, that's not what I was gonna say. I'm talking about a potential abuse resulting from Article 9 and I was talking, of course, about several members of the Higher Education Act, who could really stay in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education, of what we had. The question really is, if it's the way it is, we'll be able to have student riots, student protests, make it easier for us to split something into two, three parts. Go to Novi Sad, you have the jurisdiction of every species there. Nostration of diplomas, abolishing diplomas, that's things that have been in different ministries, there's no dilemma. Valuation of foreign student programs. What would we give to the circuit secretary or someone else to do that? I don't know. Why did it go so far in those details? We're just saying that something goes down, stays at the level of what we had with the omnibus law, that eventually something is added, that some things change, gets into the national council that used to exist. These necessary changes that are acceptable and hence they can control and fight for their rights. Plus national minorities' advice where they can really do a lot. That's exactly what intervention was all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32224	The subtitle above the 36th and the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia - Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32225	I won't talk much about that amendment, it's obviously a wasteful job. I'd just tell Mr. Secretary, but I doubt he'll hear me. Mr. Minister, don't explain to us the things we all agree on. What does the objections here have to do with this for understandable reasons the Roma national minority should be privileged in some respect? That's understood. That's one thing. Secondly, you justify something that is written in this law today that we are passing what is written in some other laws. Let's just say the provisions in those other laws are wrong. It comes to you like this - the recipe says that the meal should burn and then you of course stick to the recipe and make a burnt meal. That's a little illogical. The fact that something bad is defined in some law sometimes, then it is probably good to correct it in that law and to perceive it in this law as well. So, all these excuses that it's written somewhere, that it's written by this government or that government, it's over anyway, it doesn't matter, if some provision isn't good, it's not good. I've said to the DSS that it's not good for an autonomous province to start colleges, and it can say as many laws as you want, I believe it's written, but then it's not a good provision for that law. Facultys should organize either a state or exist, as there are, numerous private colleges that must again meet certain conditions to be colleges. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32226	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32227	I'm really going to be very brief. I'm talking about another argument, which is that when the laws with which this law wanted to be harmonised, and it's a matter of decent nomotechnics, it's not a matter of legal obligation, these laws when such provisions were passed, identical provisions are not attacked as the assumption of separatism, separation, etc., and here these same norms are now experienced, or they are perceived as another element of the separation of a single state jurisdiction, especially in the domain of education that is extremely delicate and we agree, that it is delicate, we all agree, especially those who work in education. I don't understand why when the Law on Higher Education was passed, such a jurisdiction as it was written in the AP Vojvodina was not attacked as a possible seed of separatism? It's perfectly understandable, because that seed is missing. The second thing, in fact, the legislator has the right to establish a legislative policy to say the next thing - if the state of Republika Srpska has the right to establish universities or universities, if that is the case for private persons, legal persons who have private capital, it is perfectly normal to have autonomous provinces. I don't see why a private person or a group of private persons through a legal person would take better care of a scientific higher education function, an education institution, and that would not be an autonomous province. There's really no argument there. In doing so, an autonomous province does not have the right to regulate what is governed by the Law of School Education. The network, the higher education system is identical for the entire Republic of Serbia. There's no problem with that. To get things back to square one, what I was actually going to say. If during the adoption of this law this jurisdiction was not disputed either in terms of the unique function of the Republic of Serbia or in terms of the purpose of establishing private colleges, i.e. universities that are private and state-owned, and this university is state-owned because it is founded by a part of the Republic of Serbia called AP Vojvodina, and everyone functions in a single education system, then there are no problems, as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32228	MP Zoran Shami is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32229	I'll be very brief. Mr. Minister, I have no doubt that you've been well prepared and trained to perform in parliament, I just remind you that in an attack on these members of this law relating to education, I didn't mention separatism in one single word. I attack these members for other reasons, not because they disagree with the Constitution or agree with separatism, but because they disagree with common sense. That's why I'm attacking them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32230	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic is entitled to a replica based on an explanation and interpretation of the dispute over the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this Article 35, Mr. Minister, the draft law establishing the jurisdiction of Vojvodina is actually the best proof of how unconstitutional your entire bill is. According to Article 35, the AP Vojvodina is among other things the establishment of independent higher education institutions. This is stated in point 4 of point 1 and in point 2 of point 1 of this Article, all the transactions referred to in Article 1 shall be performed as trusted, except for the transactions referred to in point 1. So this job from point four is done as a trust. So, when the AP Vojvodina founded higher education institutions, it does not do it as its original business, but as a trusted job, and we quoted you several times, Article 137 of the Constitution, where it is said that the Republic of Serbia can trust autonomous provinces to do business in its jurisdiction, but only the affairs of the state administration, and you will agree, Mr. Minister, the establishment of a university is not a business of state administration, because you remember the provisions of the Law on Government. Who exercises fundamental rights over public enterprises and institutions within the meaning of the Law on Public Services? The government of the Republic of Serbia. So, you now trust the AP Vojvodina with the government's jurisdiction and that's proof of how much more you violate the Constitution. This is more proof that the SRS is right when it says that by that logic you can trust the AP Vojvodina tomorrow and the rights that are otherwise exercised by the National Assembly and by the rights of courts etc. That means there's no limit to trust a job. So, in your opinion, you can do anything, from the authority of the state administration, from the authority of the government, from the authority of the Assembly and from the jurisdiction of the courts. Then the question arises – will we, in five or 10 years' time, or even earlier, get some bill that will literally entrust the AP to the Vojvodina with all the state power in its territory? Then what will be left of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution, gentlemen, obliges you. You can't quote just the provisions of the Constitution that apply to you, and what you don't contribute to, you don't even put it in the bill. This member is proof that you are transferring the powers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the AP Vojvodina. That is impossible under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32232	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32233	I think an esteemed colleague that both of you and me, certainly this question deserves one scientific debate, but since it's about Parliament, we have to bear in mind two facts. Article 137 and Article 178. It is indisputable that in the member of the Constitution 137, which has a name, whose edge is the public authority of the public service, is what you said. It is also undeniable that the Republic of Serbia did not limit itself, as in article 178, which speaks of trust in jurisdiction, says what the Republic of Serbia cannot do by not limiting itself. Article 137 speaks of the confidence of public authority. He's talking about management business. Article 178 says something else. He's talking about when we have a problem, we can just read what the Constitution says. So, we have a dilemma, let's hear what the Constitution says - the Republic of Serbia, it's about Article 178, it can be legally entrusted to the AP, to units of local self-government, to individual issues of its jurisdiction. Since the founder didn't say that when it comes to the AP, he limits himself to anything, so he limits it by a healthy logic. It restricts it to the constitutional justice system, but it does not restrict it to state administration only. Because if he wanted to say that, then apart from Article 137, no other member would have said it, and he was just about to isolate the AP from it. There's no dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32234	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic. This is the last replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32235	Mr. Minister, you are forgetting an important principle of constitutional law, which is the principle of constitutional continuity. The Constitution of 2006 when it was passed, was not adopted as the Constitution of Discontinity, but as the Constitution of Continuity with the Constitution in 1990. Otherwise, if it had been otherwise, the Serbian Radical Party would not have participated in the work of making the Constitution. The 1990 constitution was the only option it provided, when it comes to trusting the affairs in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, meant exclusively the affairs of the state administration. The 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also holds the concept. What you're saying right now confirms our thesis that there's no limit for you to trust a job. Now let's take one logical position. Did we who voted for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, did we want there to be no limits in trusting the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia? We didn't mean to. We wanted some boundaries, because that border is between the state and the AP. If you don't have a limit, then Vojvodina is really becoming a state in the country. Then this assembly, or the ruling coalition, and hopefully by then, this ruling coalition will no longer be ruling, nothing prevents, soon in the procedure of the National Assembly, from putting the bill of trust in the Vojvodina's issues, let's say, to form its own army, its own police, its own courts. In this way, Mr. Minister, you entrusted the AP Vojvodina with the rights of the government's jurisdiction, from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Now, to a good extent, you have already achieved the programme of Nenada Chanka, about Vojvodina which has its legislative, executive and judicial authority. Now something is happening that happened in Montenegro at the same time. There no longer must be a Liberal Party of Slavko Perovic in Montenegro, there is a DPS. The DPS has completely taken over a liberal programme from Montenegro. So now Chanko's game doesn't have to exist anymore. There's an DS. Everything Chanak asked for, you're doing it now. Simply, the sense of a political party is lost, as one of the much larger political parties has fully taken over the Nenada Chanka party's programme. What you're doing is really on the verge of this extreme autonomous policy, that Vojvodina will be a republic that will have its legislative, executive and judicial authority. It is a crucial danger contained in the draft law and the draft statutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32236	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic, so Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32237	It's very important, and I expected us to stay at the level of legal arguments, but obviously, if legal arguments aren't enough, then by nature things go into policy arguments. Of course, when we talk about constitutional continuity, we certainly do not talk about the continuity of the Constitution. For God's sake, why bring a new constitution. We're talking about the continuity of the procedure. The new constitution is also being brought in to regulate certain things differently than he had previously regulated. Continuity is related to the procedure, such as discontinuity, also, related to the procedure, and norms can be changed, in the extreme line, I repeat by the Constitution and all new laws that are being passed. If you say, honourable MP and esteemed colleague, then the Republic of Serbia can decentralised and entrust all affairs, then actually from that legal fact, far more concerned with the suspicion that any state government will do so. That any state government that stands under this Constitution will do something like that. I don't have that legal argument, except for the political one. There is no state government, there is no political party in this country that has representatives in this House who will do such a thing. I'm talking about the next thing, if the Constitution is clear and says that the Republic of Serbia can entrust affairs with its jurisdiction, not limiting itself and that in this law it is respected, that we have no problem with unconstitution, then we get a counter argument of separatism. Then I say and repeat -- there is no political party in this country that has MPs here. There is no state government that will destroy itself in the way that you respected colleagues have read this provision. That's just not true. It is simply not true and it will not be true, because the constitution also has provisions that say cannot be changed violently, that constitutional and legal order cannot be changed, that territory is unique. Mistake, the Constitution is a system. We cannot extract one constitutional norm and interpret it in one way, and forget that this constitution is a constitutional system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32238	On the subheading above Articles 37 and 37, MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia – Vojislav Kostunica – submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32239	The title above article 37 is informal adult education. It is very good that this bill recognises the importance of adult education. The previous governments and this government have also recognised this, so at this point we have a national strategy for adult education and we have formed a National Council for Adult Education. Otherwise, this member was taken over or you thought he was good, as part of the April DSS Bill, except that it was added here, in the end, stuck, as questions of the province's importance. This member and this example that I'm referring to now, somehow shows and is indicative of how much in each of these articles has gone into cesspool. He couldn't stand that member you took over, but you had to add this. It's kind of annoying. Why? Because adult education is not a question of regional importance. First, it's a matter of personal importance. A person who decides to requalify himself is qualified that's his business. If someone literally interprets this, then you can, say, if you're unemployed, you want to requalified, you know, say, that there's a construction worker deficit in Chačka, the Arangelovac, for example. ceramics, but you live in the White Church, but, let's say, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, there is no deficit of such workers, and this article says that it is not of the province's importance. This should be accepted and deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32240	A group of 21 MPs from Serbia's Progressive Group and the People's MP Marina Toman tabled a title above Articles 38th and 38th in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Otto Kishmarton, and Marina Tomman's national emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32241	Dear fellow Members of the People, my colleagues and I from the SNS have submitted a number of amendments to this law in order to correct this law on determining jurisdiction. We of the opposition are not consulted on the drafting of this law, and therefore we have tried amendments to fix this law and to arrange it in the interests of Serbian citizens, in order to be acceptable to all of us. No opposition amendment has been adopted, and we cannot accept such a bill. Our amendment refers to the title above Articles 38 and 38. With the amendment, we propose to delete the members of the 38th and the titles above this article. The amendment deletes provisions under which the AP Vojvodina, through its bodies, is to regulate and ensure the exercise of the rights of national minorities in the territory of the AP, education in the native language, at all levels and in accordance with the law. We fully agree with the SNS that members of the national minorities in Serbia should have and should have the same rights as the majority people in Serbia, as well as the right to education in the native language at all levels of education in accordance with the law. Members of all national minorities are citizens of Serbia and their right to education in Serbia's territory should be cared for by the state, both in Presevo and Novi Sad, both for the Russians and for the Bosniaks, for example. The unequal position of members of national minorities in any part of Serbia should not be allowed and should be taken into account that national minorities in all parts of Serbia have the same rights. National minority rights should be cared for by the state, not the province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32242	The word has a folk letter from Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32243	Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment suggesting that we delete the subtitles above Articles 38 and 38. It is very important that education is arranged at the central republican level. It's a very important question and it can't be brought down to the country level. It is true that the Constitution allowed it, but only in certain parts of this area. Also, this matter is already regulated by other laws. If the government thinks it's in the interest of national minorities, it's wrong. This, in some ways, works against their interests by reducing their importance by releasing them to a lower regional level. The state is slowly exempt from any type of responsibility in implementing constitutional provisions relating to the protection and enforcement of the rights of members of national minorities. Something the government has already transferred to the national councils of the national minorities, now to the province. What's next? It's the easiest thing to get rid of any kind of responsibility. Should we now interpret that education of members of national minorities is not part of Serbia's single education system, that the state of Serbia is no longer in control of the process. Aren't we members of the national minorities of Serbia, or, as the statute counter-qualifies us as members of the less-represented national community? The exercise of our right should be done by the state, i.e. that this right is happening at a republican level. This is how these rights go to the jurisdiction of the province, which can transfer its competence to the national councils of the national minorities. The Statute provides that the AP Vojvodina can entrust local self-government units and national councils of national minorities with the performance of certain tasks under its jurisdiction. It is scandalous that many important problems will be decided on the way they are solved by a rural congregation decision. We have already warned you, when the Law on National Councils of National Minorities has been adopted, that giving national advice to opportunities, let's say the national councils of national minorities give opinions to the National Educational Council on the Serbian Language Educational Programmes, as not a motherly bad decision that will produce to minorities many problems in practice, i.e. unconformed curricula. It's the same thing now. That's when we warned that it was about the ghettoisation of national minorities. Today we're warning the same thing. In the system of state education, an independent, closed education system is created. Is that, in any way, the feud of Serbia? We think so. If you are trying to defend this thesis that the province has better insight into the real needs, I have to ask that question asked by my colleagues – what about those members of national minorities who do not live in the territory of Vojvodina, Bulgarians, Vlasi? Then they are not in an equal position with other minorities, with other citizens of Serbia, and the Constitution guarantees them the right. What about individual members of a national minority who live scattered across Serbia's territory? They'll be educated under different conditions. The fact that only 10% of Romanians live outside the territory of the AP Vojvodina, as you claim, ministers, do not solve the problem and the way they are solved, as you have explained, is quite confusing, and on the other hand, we have to ask the question – what about those national minorities that do not have national councils? The same question will be resolved in different ways, and yet this is still one state or at least some things of this statute have changed. Instead of all of us trying to create a functional state, with developed strong local self-government, this bill just leads to the opposite, leads to strengthening bureaucracy, expanding administration. What will the citizens of Vojvodina, apart from an expensive administration, receive, and hence, members of the national minorities? He won't get anything, but that's why the state of Serbia will lose a lot. On the other hand, if the government already wants to show concern for national minorities, besides, it is repeatedly publicised, which does not address their existential problems and national minorities, we, members of national minorities, are plagued by the same problems as Serbs – unemployment, unregulated social, health, pension insurance. The claims that this is the cornerstone of future development and a higher standard of living, claims that in this way conditions are created for the better life of all the citizens of Vojvodina, not only do you deceive these same citizens, but you admit that you have not done much in this field so far. That's how you acknowledge your defeat. Why would anyone believe that now, when instead of rationalizing, investing, opening new places, you introduce new accusations? Who's going to finance a bulky administration like this? Citizens of Serbia, citizens of Vojvodina. If someone says it doesn't matter whether a Republic or a province is behind the exercise of one's rights, they're wrong because the Republic is still more guaranteed to exercise those rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32244	Three minutes and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The 39th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov to the title above article 39i. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Zivkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32245	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 39 that regulates the field of sports for the AP Vojvodina under this law. I'd like to explain briefly why I submitted the amendment to Article 39. - It's wiped out. For a number of reasons, but since I have very little time to explain the whole story, I've submitted the amendment to Article 40, so I guess I'll be able to express everything I thought. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, you probably remember well, and it wasn't long ago, how important and important, the area of sport for our society, when the symbols and flags under which our team fought and all our teams representing the state, the old, the present, the former, etc. how significant it was until an adequate anthem was obtained, an adequate mark, that the success of the sport would be the one that was meant to be. Here, in this law, you are absolutely giving the AP Vojvodina the right to propose to the provincial authority of the administration, which is called this law, is deleted, is not mentioned anywhere in the secretariat that has so far led the field of sports in the AP Vojvodina and I believe it is absolutely forbidden to use politics and push Vojvodina into what you are trying to push it into, especially through sports. As far as it goes, it can be seen by the local self-government where I come from, it's the Becay municipality, which has changed its coat of arms, old to new, and it's the coat of arms of the Habsburg monarchy and the flag that will be used in all the events, which is such a coat of arms and flag, where children, if the Becay municipality organises some competitions, participate under this flag and this coat of arms. This flag and coat of arms were brought to the municipality, which the Baroness Euphemy Jovic left to his people in the Becej municipality, very significantly, because the sports activities and events that will be organised, as has been organised so far, will certainly not have any effect as it has so far. I wanted so much for this article, and for the next article, I'll explain more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32246	Thirty seconds of time being used by the parliamentary group. A group of 19 MPs from the DSS group submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, it's good to see you. You haven't been here with us all day. For days, the DSS MPs warned, in a debate in principle and in particular, that this law is not good, that it is anti-constitutional, that it derogates the Constitution, that it suspends the constitution, that it constrains a certain new condition for the state. We have submitted an amendment to Article 39, which speaks of the transfer of competences regarding social activity - sport. You know that one country can easily promote itself through sports, through its athletes. Given that Vojvodina has both the coat of arms and the flag, suppose that a certain Frank Sinatra from Vojvodina makes an anthem, there is an opportunity for Vojvodina with its team, which allows this law allowing the AP Vojvodina to make certain contracts with certain regions and since you have all these components, there is a hypothetical possibility that a match between Vojvodina and Kosovo will be played in the future. That's right, that's a fact. That way, we'll see you in the ceremony box, perhaps, Mr. Chipletic, I don't believe you because you're a Republic organ, perhaps Mr. Pitiæ with Mr. Thaci. So our intention is to delete item 3 in this article which determines the program of international sports competitions of interest to the AP Vojvodina. What does that mean? This means that Vojvodina, as an AP, can organise international competitions and that its team, either in football, volleyball, basketball, water polo or in any other sport, participates in these competitions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32248	The word has Minister Svetozar Ciplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32249	I really didn't expect you to be able to find representations in such harmless provisions. How come so far the team, which you hypothetically believe may have arisen, with the same powers that have not been created? How can you "determin international sports competition programs", you find a team? I have to ask one question - do we even know how sport works in neighbouring countries? There is a sport that is of interest to the state and this same state, in the same way that it does here, in this law, decentralised some issues of sports organisation into the lower spheres of its organization. The state can't capillaryly edit sports. It's very simple, because he can't capillaryly edit sports, because he can't determine if there's going to be many sports halls in which municipality. She does it this way. There's all this stuff in this article. So, international sports competitions, as I read to you, and you have read, are not interstate sports competitions, but international sports competitions and these international sports competitions are called for a simple reason, because the world's Federations of sports associations thus regulate them, and they themselves determine that certain parts of the state can be organised and organised by each other in this way. In fact, I don't know if the rules apply - international standards. If this is how it is organized by verticals, it lowers sport in other European countries that are not so concerned about their territorial integrity, because they cannot find a problem in sport. If we already have these powers, be careful, not under the Constitution of 2006 but under the 1990s Constitution. Then I don't see what's really a problem so much that you can see hypothetically in a provision that speaks of international, that you see interstate. It's simply, mildly speaking, not correct because of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32250	MP Alexander Pejcic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32251	Mr. Chiplicu, here it clearly says in point 3) of the attitude 1, says – it determines the program of international sports competitions of interest for the AP Vojvodina. What are these interests in the AP Vojvodina? I just said, so the AP Vojvodina has a coat of arms, there's a flag, there's a possibility of getting an anthem in some perspective. They do, they say they do. Since there is an opportunity through this point to organize an international sport, who will appear as the subject at the competition? Maybe Serbia. No, this is the organizer of the AP Vojvodina. So someone from the AP Vojvodina will sign up. It was called a team or a selection, it doesn't matter. I'll explain that in the UK, as an internationally-recognized state, there are teams like England, Wales, Northern Ireland, but they have no law on the transfer of jurisdiction. One's a country. They regulated it in a completely different way, and this suggests that in the future we can expect a new representation of the Vojvodina. This is what Montenegro was doing before it secededed from Serbia. What was she doing? She formed her own team, i.e. The alliances had an explicit order to form representations before they split off, they had already played games with both Albania and Croatia and Bosnia. So they were already preparing for something like that. We expect it from the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32252	Minister Svetozar Chiplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32253	I'll try to be extremely brief. It's a very simple thing. If someone here wanted to ensure what you see in this norm, he would say, interstate. When it comes to international, it means that in an international aspect of a lower level, such as Vojvodina, it is not at all controversial. What's of interest? It's of interest that it's not for the state, it's for the autonomous province, in this case, the AP Vojvodina. This implies that the AP Vojvodina can organise, finance, that, for example, the water polo club Vojvodina or the water polo club Novi Sad participate in the competition where clubs from other regions, other countries, but as organizers. Really, despite my best wishes, I can't understand what this is all about. So it's about you connecting this standard, so, norm, jurisdiction, which has existed for many years. It exists under the 1990 Constitution, with the example of Great Britain, and you lead to this. It's just a message to citizens, which has no basis for anything but a hypothesis. (Alexander Pejcic, from the site: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32254	You no longer have the right to a replica. The 39th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32255	Mr Minister, the SNS intervened on this member of the law by authorising the Government in that position 3 to give you consent to the establishment of a programme of international sports competitions of interest for the AP Vojvodina and this, calling for the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, defined by Article 97 of point 10, where there is no precise separation of what can be transferred to a lower level, autonomy or local self-government, and by not accepting here today's fleet, that one law, which determines jurisdiction, can replace a constitutional provision that states that regional development, borrowing, regulates in accordance with the law. Why is it not baseless fear, but fact? Today, when the State Audit Institute gave a report on the abuse of budgets, and above all on the use of public procurement and on unsecured and undefined, unrecorded assets, and so on, we'll talk about it. It is clear that the fears that are being brought here today are not in the realm of emotional conjecture and doubt. The government that proposes laws here, based on which it spends money, has a comfortable majority, can do anything, so it dares to break the law directly, which in the normal state, with such an assessment of the budget audit, should simply lead to an article of the government. I want to ask you -- is it normal for you to say "regulate questions", not all of them, but someone who suggests this law here interprets all questions? When it defines law enforcement, it doesn't say anywhere that these are republican laws that enforce the province. That's understood. I ask Mr Dragin and the gentleman, currently absent, Dulic, in view of Articles 10, 11, 13, 14, hunting, agriculture, jurisdiction over proposing imports, exports, etc., which are left out of the domain of the republican government at the AP Vojvodina -- will the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia ever be able to be someone from Vojvodina after the adoption of this law? It's simply a way of transferring these powers with the default and undefined laws that regulate this puts the Autonomous Vojvodina in a position to do only what it wants, accepting that the law, the Constitution, transfer of jurisdiction and trust in business means - I'll only take what suits me and only do what I think is my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32256	One minute and ten seconds were used from the time of the deputy president of the parliamentary group. The word is made by Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32257	First of all, I want to thank Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic for asking. What I can tell you is that when we decide what is possible and what is adequately transferred in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina from the domain of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, we are primarily guided by good European practice. What is the practice in all EU Member States is that apart from two extremely important areas, which is the management of agricultural land and subsidies related to the same, as well as the part that deals with food safety, other competences are reduced to a lower level, purely for the efficiency of doing business, or working at lower levels. We have decided, for this reason, that the same way that some parts that, if looked at, after all, and omnibus law, are already in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. As you know, forests, let's say, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, are managed by the Public Enterprise "The Woods of Vojvodina", or by the waters of the AP Vojvodina, the Public Enterprise of "Vojvodine", to leave you in the jurisdiction of the province in this legal act as well. What is also very important is that the state has to work effectively, act and that all state authorities have their jobs and are responsible for the part-time work. For this reason, we thought it very important that, in line with good European practice and the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, the AP Vojvodina take part in the responsibility of agriculture, of course, in line with what regional governments are doing in other countries of Europe. In such a way, we have made it possible for the Ministry of Agriculture to be far more effective towards farmers in fulfilling its obligations, because people who have done these jobs so far will be more able to concentrate on those jobs that are related to the subsidisation of farmers, control of what is called food security, control of agricultural land and all that it carries. For this reason, it was very important for us to transfer some of the jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina. In the same way, we would also like to transfer jurisdiction to some of the perhaps other regional, established in the future, forms that will be able to take responsibility for the conduct of certain parts of agrarian policy in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32258	The word has a folk MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32259	How does Mrs. Comic do it when Hope takes the lead session. I thank you for the replica. You were extremely correct today. I didn't deserve a replica, but I have an additional question. Is there a good practice somewhere that the national park, publicly of national importance, is transferred to the management of a lower governing body without being a state? Is there also a country where this is arranged in such a way, especially as Article 27 says that this law establishes a public enterprise National Park Fruska Gora, which leaves property, objects, obligations to the Public Enterprise of the National Park Fruska Gora? What's the efficiency, what's the difference in this mode of transmission? You're still telling me it's a good European practice. When you say that this is a job for you in the field of agriculture, please explain to me, Mr Dragin, whether there is a country that has left part of its territory a jurisdiction over borrowing, so when the monetary stability which is at risk of over-indebted by the state, is compromised in a way that you have to act fiscally restrictively, or introduce new taxes, then all Serbian citizens will suffer tax burdens because one province is in charge of how it is compatible with its interests, at one point possible and allowed. This approach has been made by 126 majority here, the ministry with the ministry, a new omnibus law that has made this constitution unusable documents or worthless and I am convinced that we will not need a State Auditing Institution like the budget, which will very quickly show that this and this law is simply not applicable, which is also evidenced by your Commission for Consensus, I think is a member of the 5th Law, where you have an established commission that will see problems already coming into line between the province and the republican authorities. Is it an interstate or international sport competition organization? Let's not defend ourselves here with terms. These are really very dangerous things. This isn't for such an easy and gentle explanation. These are things that will lead to many dangerous phenomena. I thank you again, Mrs. Comic, for the law I didn't deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32260	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32261	I must remind you that the possibility of detecting national parks is still entrusted to the AP Vojvodina by Omnibus law, so it's not any newspaper. What is also entrusted to the AP Vojvodina is an environmental inspection that has been doing its work in the territory of the AP Vojvodina for many years. As the Minister for Environmental Protection, I saw in it that I was on the one hand in charge of Fruska Gora National Park, and on the other hand, the inspection that is responsible is under the leadership of the Regional Secretariat for the Protection of the Environment. For that reason, I think this is appropriate. In addition, this is not the part that is related to the Ministry of Agriculture, but to the protection of the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-27-0.u32262	We're finishing work for today. The paper continues on Monday, November 30th, with a debate on the agenda point we have been working on today, and the first amendment to be the subject of the search will be the amendment to Article 40, which was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Thank you.
