ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23966	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there are 89 MPs present in the hall, and that there are more than one third of the MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic and MP Aleksandra Jankovic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the President of the National Assembly, Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic, has called for today's session, in addition to the representatives, Ms Diana Dragutinović, Minister of Finance and Mr. Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, to attend Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ružica Stojljković, Assistant Director of the Treasury Administration, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Radmila Bukumirić-Katic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy. We continue to work on a certain agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the BUDGETS SYSTEM (Common Principled Search 1-4th Points) Consensual Decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on the first, second, third and fourth points of the agenda, and before the opening of the common principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the overall debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours in principle, I find that the time of debate is one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS parliamentary group is one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group Advanced Serbia – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS – 18 minutes; the LDP Group of MPs – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the New Serbia Group of MPs – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the E-mail group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs who are not members of any of the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak, every once, every five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that MPs' groups have authorised them to represent them on these points of the agenda: MP Djordje Milicevic, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, MP Milorad Buh, the SRS Parliamentary Group, and other parliamentary groups, so far, have not delivered any notice of authorised representatives, which they can do until the debate begins. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint search on: 1. Proposal for a law on the budgetary system, 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, 3. Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of "Marfin Bank" a.d. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", and 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act. Do the proposing representatives, Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister and Rasim Ljajic, minister of labour and social policy, want a word? National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23967	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to point out the irregularity of the way the tenth session began. Perhaps it is good that you, Mrs. Komic, are here because you know the Rules of Procedure and I believe you will interpret it as it says. When the session was interrupted, I asked for word from the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, I have not received it, and I doubt that there is a possibility of manipulation, that at a certain point in time when reporting, it is refused to give the word to the MP who is seeking it, precisely because the session has been interrupted in an irregular manner. Mrs. Komic, I will read for you, and also for the MPs, and also for the viewers, to tell you how it is possible to interrupt the session. Article 98. The Rules of Procedure say, "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum at the National Assembly session until the quorum is secured." It happened on several occasions, but you managed to get to the quorum. The second point is: "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion". And that wasn't the reason for the Ninth Session's interruption. Third position: "The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly". That was not the case either, for the congregation had not reached any conclusion. Fourth position: "The President of the National Assembly will inform the MPs about the continuation of the session." Mrs. Komic, I ask you to explain to both citizens and MPs, how did the ninth session end, on the basis of which member?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23968	People's MP, the time at your disposal to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been used. Thank you. There is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you and I, knowing the Good Rules of Procedure, know that you have misused the right that enables MPs under Article 100 to indicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure that occurred immediately before the MP or MPs report to indicate the injury. In your explanation of any moment, you do not touch today's session, nor do you feel that, during today's day, the Rules of Procedure has been injured at any time, and I ask that we do not abuse the right to the word obtained under Article 100. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23969	I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure by having a session that was interrupted, I think the injury occurred this morning, made an obligation to explain the session's interruption. So, I'm not talking about what happened the other day, I'm talking about what happened this morning. You continued your "dead-cold" session without explaining under any circumstances what was going on. I think you're in relation to Rule 27, which obliges you to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, to give us an explanation. It's the least you're asked to do, and I think you'd have to do it. That's why I think you violated article 27. Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23970	There's no violation of article 27, MP. Your argument doesn't even concern a violation of article 27. The session today began in accordance with Article 27, with the care of the order. The representatives of the Government are present, there is a quorum, all the decisions the Assembly has made, it has made by proper procedure, so I ask you not to abuse the right that we have to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and when we get that right to really talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23971	I'm advertising a breach of Article 104. Mrs. Komic, I urge you not to humiliate the Assembly or the MPs. As chairman, I asked you very specifically which member, on the basis of which member the Ninth was interrupted. A session? Whether or not the Rules of Procedure were injured, we will conclude if you tell us on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure the ninth session is interrupted. That's one question I asked you and I ask you most politely to answer that question. The second question I have asked you is about the possibility of manipulation, that some MPs at a certain point or any MP at a certain point are not given the opportunity to speak, because simply when you insert a regular card, press this button into one, second or third parliamentary unit, that card is not accepted. These are obvious manipulations. It's bordered by something that's never happened in this congregation, because at least before we had the right to ask for a word, so that you refuse us, but it's seen, it stays recorded. Now there are no such options anymore. Simply, you're kicking us out of this electronic system and in the simplest way you're trying to hide those dirty things you're doing. I don't think it's in the interest of the Serbian Parliament, it may be in the interest of the current majority, but this kind of terror has never existed before. You're making it impossible for MPs at the moment when you're violating the Rules of Procedure to point out that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23972	People's MP, the time at your disposal to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been used. The People's Messengers earn not to be heard. I said that the time available to the MP was used. Thank you. National MP, there is no violation of Article 104, and since you obviously did not consult a member of the 100th before you report for a word, here is what it says, paragraph 1: "The MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president, or the chairman, if he considers that it does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at a session of the National Assembly which is in progress and immediately after the injury has been done." Please, for the second time, don't abuse the right that article 100 gives you. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: 'I ask you, why is the session interrupted? Please don't throw it away. So, in the first report, you were talking about something you think was an injury, which happened a few days ago, and it didn't happen today. For your request to ask me questions, I refer you to Article 235 and the time available to all MPs on Tuesdays and Thursdays, before the beginning of the session, to ask questions to which they are obliged to answer. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: ''By which member is the session interrupted? ''The People's Messenger throws out, after which member is the sitting interrupted? I'm seriously warning you that after this, because you are currently in violation of Article 104 by throwing and refusing to stop the violence against the procedure, I will be forced by the same Article 100 to give you measures. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: "It is enough for me to be seen by the citizens of Serbia! ''The People's MP insists that it is enough for him to see this by the citizens of Serbia. I hope Serbian citizens can see what violence is against the procedure and what it is to interfere with work, and what it is to believe that one of us has more rights than others. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for any violence against the procedure and any rudeness they have had to look at during television broadcasts. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23973	I am advertising the violation of article 100 on your part and the violation of article 27, which I will first explain in this context, that you are re-emergent with the MPs, by convincing who throws what out of the parliamentary benches and continuing the controversy with them, to which you are not authorized by any member of this Rules of Procedure. You're authorized to give warning measures and it's okay, if I have to, I'll carry them myself if you think it's wrong, but what you're doing now and what you've done before, what I've warned you a hundred times, is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. You were wrong about the way you reacted when I asked for a violation of Rule 27, then you said the following sentence, that I had misused the Rules of Procedure and the right to appear after the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, which I do not think is correct on your part and that it is not in line with Article 100, as well as the way that article 100 allows you to react. Read all the provisions well, so I don't read them now, and you'll see that there are several possibilities ahead of you. One option is to say that I am wrong, that I misread that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and that ends with it, if you are not satisfied we go further in the voting day, and if you think that I have misused the Rules of Procedure then apply some of the criminal provisions. I believe I didn't do it, that I didn't do any abuse. I thought your obligation, when you didn't do it last time, to do it now, was to give a valid explanation of what's going on this morning, because this is a very unusual situation, and you didn't do it. You could've just told me you thought the Rules of Procedure was not hurt. Don't accuse me of any abuse, because abuses only happen on your part, by abuse of the Rules of Procedure, by interrupting sessions contrary to Article 98, by doing a dozen other miracles that are contrary to the Rules of Procedure, and you can do so from the seat of the Chairman, and by all means by you who are leading the Assembly, and we who are in opposition don't see how we can abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23974	Two minutes. The time available to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure has been used. There's no breach of Rule 100's Rules of Procedure. People's messenger, you've got the word, and everyone who's asked. The People's MP Vladan Batic, who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, came forward, and he will get his word. As for your remarks to interrupt the speaker, I refer you to Article 103(2), which says: "No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. ''And the attitude of Article 103rd said, ''In the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw or interfere with speakers in any other way than any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. 'And that explanation doesn't suit you. The second time you quoted Article 27, regardless of what article 100 clearly states, in its second position: 'The MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly, i.e. the chairman, which has already been pointed out. '"It is now the second time you abuse the right to the word, which you do consciously and deliberately. Article 27 says: "The President of the National Assembly: – he does the work provided for by the Constitution – he chaires the meetings of the National Assembly, – he takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, – he takes care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, – he does other tasks provided for by law and this Rules of Procedure. ''None of the provisions of article 27 has been broken since the moment this session and your invitation to article 27 began to prescribe any other notification does not stand, because it does not prescribe and in that sense is abuse. National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23975	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that there is no President of Parliament, Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic, because this breach of the Rules of Procedure, as regards Article 27, refers personally to it. But you gave me inspiration, Mrs. Comic, by reading the provision of Article 27 and the last item – that the president of the Assembly is also doing other tasks provided for by law and the Rules of Procedure. Ms. Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic was here to the MPs and the entire public to explain whether her part-time engagement in "Galenica", doing other jobs, in accordance with the law or whether it was a flagrant conflict of interest at a time when conflict of interest is widely... (President: National MP, I warn you of the provisions of Article 100, in which way the MP can explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I warn you that what we are talking about now is not in any connection with Article 100.) Please don't interrupt me. I warn you, you don't understand! Don't interrupt me, please! It is also a typical and flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure. It is the collapse of the system of parliamentaryism – if the president of the National Assembly finds himself in a conflict of interest it is a topic for this parliament. It's a typical violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Komic, I would ask that you reduce your impression and that you no longer enter the word of me or any other MP of the people. What Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic is doing is not in line with Article 27, where her powers and her powers are listed. (President: People's MP, time at your disposal has been used. Don't get in my word!
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23976	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. Article 27 has already been indicated. I can only ask you not to abuse the rights given to us under Article 100. You asked me to read Article 27 right before you got your word. That article 27 has been read, and I ask all MPs to follow closely the meeting, the session of the National Assembly, and to listen to each other, and above all to obey the provisions that give us the right to receive the word. The 100th article obliges me to give out measures if MPs insist on breaking Article 100 and making violence against the procedure abuses the right to receive a word. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23977	I think you've hurt Article 104(3) personally, in relation to me, because you've said a number of qualifications in relation to my actions, which you've called a deliberate abuse in this house, which I don't think is correct, and you've hurt Article 27 again. In Article 100, point 2 stands (read) even though you have read it, but you do not listen to yourself: 'The MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly, or the chairman, which is already indicated. '"What does that have to do with a member of the Rules of Procedure? It has to do with the type of injury. The 100th has a dozen points of view. I'm telling you what you've hurt in relation to article 100 and when we're talking about article 27... Let me finish the explanation. (President: People's Parliament, for the third time you explain article 27. I'm warning you... ) The most beautiful thing I ask you to do is complete the explanation that your injury consists of, for you will now hear it for the first time. You couldn't have done it before. (President: Read article 100 carefully and compare your reasoning with article 100.) Let me explain what your injury consists of. Where did you get the right to interrupt me because I didn't explain what your injury consisted of? It's not even about that injury I previously pointed at, it's about a whole new one. I'm talking about the violation of Article 100(3) because you insulted me by how you explained my earlier injury and I explain to you what you insulted me – by misrepresentation and abuse of your interpretation in relation to Article 100. That's what offended me, and I'm not saying that in this particular case, we're going back to Article 100, all I'm saying is that you hurt me a little bit with your explanation, and that's why I'm pointing to Article 104 of Article 3, because the way you're acting is not right at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23978	People's MP, every one of your announcements to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure was not in line with Article 100. What is not in accordance with Article 100 is abuse of the right to receive words. Please don't do this. This is indeed the last warning for respecting the dignity of this National Assembly, which is put at risk by MPs who believe they can abuse the right to receive words under Article 100. National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23979	Madam Chairman, I would most kindly ask you, calling on the provision of Article 100(3), that neither I nor any other person ever be interrupted at a time when he speaks or advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you simply have no right to do so. The position of the 3rd member of the 100th says that the president of the National Assembly is obliged after that, it is first uncultural, uncivilised and unrequited that you are entering someone's word, which is your fundamental right, but on the street and not in Parliament. You must respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in Parliament. I've brought out what's in my court in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I've called upon a member I consider to have been violated, and you've interrupted me twice. For this reason, I would argue that you are in this way, referring to the provision of Article 100(3) which gives you this right only after the MP has finished advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, not during the speech of the MP. That way you have no right, and at this very moment, the least I expect from you is to apologize to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23980	National MP, I am applying Article 103(2). I ask you to consult that member, so you will see that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure and that this injury has been made without grounds. People's MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) National MP Milos Aligrudic is registered in the electronic system, where he is in the discussion of the application for a word. I'm under the obligation to call, to ask if it's a stroke or if it's the intention of getting the word serious. Since the MP isn't in the O.R., it's obviously about a stroke. Do the proposing representatives, Mr Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister Rasim Ljajic, want a word? Please sign in to the electronic system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23981	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, you have before you a draft law on the budgetary system, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, a draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia for the benefit of the "Marfin Bank" a.d. Belgrade, under the authority of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia", and a bill on the completion of the Labour Act. I'm going to start my presentation for me at the most important point of this agenda, and that's the Budget System Act. Since 2002, when this law was first passed, it has changed several times, and despite all these changes, I can freely say that time has run him over. It has also been run over when it comes to terms and methodologies and comprehensiveness and clarity, and when it comes to functions and procedures. That is why I now present to you here a significantly improved comprehensive law on planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, local authorities and the organisation of compulsory social security. First terms. The law is fully in line with the international statistics on state finances from 2001. This is particularly important to avoid having a potentially false picture of the state of fiscal policy. Some concepts have been introduced that were not present in earlier law because of other laws and documents related to the Budgetary System Act, which is primarily the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia and local levels of government, fund financial plans, the Memorandum of Budget, Economic and Fiscal Policy. This law provides the basis for a thorough analysis of entities covered by the term of the general government, meaning, direct, indirect budgetary users and out-of-budger funds. This, in the final instance, will lead to the reassurance of the subjects and to a more precise definition of the general level of the state. Also, this law provides the basis for all public funds to be included in the consolidated vault system. Therefore, those legal entities which are neither direct nor indirect budget users in the current system are, for example, agencies and regulatory bodies and the possibility of them being included in the single consolidated account of the vault, will first have the consolidation of all public funds, we will be much better informed, both the Government and Parliament, about how these public funds are being spent. Better control and more rational spending of all public funds. Under the current law, the government represented a memorandum of budget, economic and fiscal policy, in spring and revised in autumn. Although the same remains in the new law, I must stress that in the new law, the Memorandum, as a document, has far greater meaning. First, the memorandum includes the detailed consolidated budget of the Republic of Serbia, which will allow for a realistic assessment of fiscal policy and fiscal position, as well as the inclusion of all available public funds in the process of priority spending. I note, that some, conditionally said, simple consolidation of public income and public expenditure and now existed, but not according to budget accounting standards, was not included in the financing account, part of the income, first of all, its own income, was out of control, as well as part of the expenditure financed from project loans. In addition, a consolidated report will for the first time include a consolidated report by the Health Insurance Institute. The third, perhaps most important newspaper, is that the Memorandum will include the medium-term macroeconomic and fiscal framework, so the medium-term expenditure framework with established budgetary beneficiaries' limits for the financial year and the next two fiscal years. So it opens up the possibility that much earlier, before the practical procedure of budget preparation begins, talks and arrangements are carried out and that we know in advance, with the certainty and time horizon of three years, what fiscal policy will be. Otherwise, the process of introducing the medium-term framework was started in 2007, but due to frequent changes, the lack of legal framework that would allow it, this has not been done until today. In any case, the purpose of introducing a medium-term framework and planning expenditure for a three-year period is to reduce the negative impact of politically motivated and short-term initiatives and their adverse performance on the public finances system. The memorandum will also include the economic and fiscal consequences of any proposed economic policy and structural reform. The Spring Memorandum will include a proposal for new policies, medium-term priorities for public investment, and the autumn Memorandum will include adopted priorities. The aim is to improve the planning of capital investments. And finally, the public debt management strategy will be an integral part of the Memorandum. I remind you that the Spring Memorandum has already included some of this. So, in the spring Memorandum, there are limits to spending budget users, though, for only one year, and a public debt management strategy. The budget calendar has been changed. One of the shortcomings in the current budgetary framework was the lack of integration of individual initiatives, as well as the absence of links between budgets, objectives, government policies and its results. Therefore, new steps are introduced into the budget calendar, which is the establishment, firstly, and then adoption, priority areas of investment, including national investment projects. The public sector structure in Serbia is relatively complex and is part of Serbia's historic development. Therefore, the central level of government covers the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the financial plans of mandatory social security organisations and other non-Budget funds. There is also a decentralised structure of government with autonomous provinces and a large number of municipalities, there are also public enterprises, public agencies and regulatory bodies. However, public sectors are also complicated in most other countries, which have nevertheless succeeded, thanks to this law, to standardise public governance. This new law has indeed been done on the basis of internationally accepted standards. We need to learn from these standards not because we need to adopt them automatically, but because they have the experience of a large number of countries. The development of modern society has given us the opportunity to provide financial services in a new way, as well as to provide new financial services. The development of modern financial management allows for more efficient functioning of the Treasury and a better overview of the financial situation. And a better review allows us to save money and avoid future fiscal risks. According to this Act, the functions of the Treasury are: payment of income; allocation of apropriation and liquidity planning, if there is a need to put into effect a limit of expenditure on budgetary users; emphasising responsibility for the creation and management of commitments, regulation of payments from the budget in the monetary and foreign law. The scope of this law is evident in detailed instructions given for budgetary accounting, reporting, internal financial control in the public sector, budgetary inspection and external audit. What are the important changes to the 2002 Law? I will repeat once again that this is a medium-term framework for fiscal and budgetary aspects; a requirement for consolidation of financial reports; greater control of funds and enhanced internal financial control in the public sector. So this law much more emphasizes the importance of control, control and ex ante, and preventive and ex post. Finally, but certainly no less important, a condition has been created for the use of EU development assistance. The budget is certainly the most important means to control the government, by the Assembly. I'm sure this law will improve that asset. I'm professionally interested in this law. I stress that the law is in line with the 2001 State Finance Statistics. There have been many rounds of checks, checks by IMF experts, the World Bank, the Directorate of the European Commission for Budget. The experience so far has been analyzed, so, 60 existing laws available in English, and five laws in our close languages and the last round of checks are you. I would now move to the next item of the agenda, which is: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. So, the motive for changing this law is clear – that is to agree with the Law on political parties. These changes introduce fees for the overing of the founders' statement on the establishment of a political party and over the party's declaration of membership in the political party. If this tax had not been introduced, which is 50 dinars, a general fee of 460 dinars would have been paid. Also, the tax is not paid by political organisations that are included in the Register of Political Organisations, as well as by political organisations that are listed in the Register of Associations of Social Political Organisations. Changes to this law and their alignment with the Law on Political Parties have been used to make further minor changes. All changes are focused essentially on tax cuts. Therefore, they are reduced to 50% of certain taxes in the field of intellectual property, in the case of a natural person being a taxable person, and the fees for licences for international public transport are reduced. Finally, it is specified that the tax is not paid for the contributions to be submitted for registration in the parent books and for the application for the issue of passports. The third item of the agenda is: the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Marfin Bank" of Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Roads of Serbia". Remember, we recently passed two similar laws – on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Sosite General Bank" and in favour of "Uni Credit Bank", and for the purpose of refinanceing the Public Enterprise's commitments "Putevi". I would no longer remind you, because we all know that the problem of the public debt company Putevi exists from its establishment and that the biggest accumulation of debts and liabilities occurred between 2004 and 2006. In this crisis year, we have solved the problem of functioning the Public Enterprise Roads by giving a guarantee. This is about a guarantee for a long-term dinar loan of up to 60m euros in a dinar sign. It's a medium-term handling loan for five years, and one year it's a start-up period and four years are paid off. This loan may only be used for the purpose of refinanceing existing obligations, therefore, payments towards contractors. Public procurement was carried out. The most favourable bidder was the Sosite General. The bank was somehow a reference value for borrowing, i.e. issuing guarantees from the Republic of Serbia. In bilateral negotiations with bidders, they sought to obtain the best conditions for the Republic of Serbia. The same conditions were obtained when it came to the Unicredit Bank, and similar, not exactly identical, terms when it comes to the Murphy Bank. As I said - it's a five-year maturity, a one-year standstill, and the interest rate is variable, so one-month euribor, plus a fixed interest margin of 4.15. The tranche will be given between two and tenm euros, and payments are up to 20 days. The condition for the withdrawal of these funds is the entry into force of this law. After the adoption and entry into force of this law, I believe that the biggest part of the problem of Public Enterprise Roads will be solved. In addition, this will affect the increase in the liquidity of the system and the stability of the course, given that these funds are coming from the outside. Finally, the last item of the agenda is: Proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act. This is about one change. The change is due to the functioning of the economic financial crisis and the reduced volume of business in businesses. So, only a position is added – where the possibility of the paid leave being longer than 45 days is extended, with the fact that in this paid leave that is longer than 45 days of earnings will be paid at 60% of the average earnings made in the last three months, and in any case, no less than minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia. In this way, and this not-so-long exposé, I hope I've explained the essence of the change in these four laws that lie ahead of you. I expect you to support these laws in the voting day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23982	I would like to inform the Assembly that the mandated representative of the LDP parliamentary group is MP Slobodan Maras. Do the committees want the word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? National MP Vladan Batic answered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23983	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister, this little time I have, I will only use for one item of the agenda, and it refers to the Marfin Bank Guarantee Act. When I say that, it seems probably very surprising. Why? Should we pay the debt to the passengers? Of course you should. Is that why you need to take a loan from a bank? Of course you should. So what's the problem, and why am I potential this agenda point? The problem and my question concerns a bank that lends credit. It's the Murphy Bank. I'm asking a question, and you can see that on the site, what's the full name of this bank? "Marfin popular bank." What does that associate you with? If you're all set, if you're not, ask Mladjan Dinkic, at the Cyprus popular bank. It's a legal follower of the Cyprus popular bank called Laiki Bank for a time. What is Cyprus Popular Bank again known for? Because all those money in Cyprus went there, to phantoms of the brother-in-law companies, Browncourt, Antexol, Vericon, etc. etc. - four billion dollars were washed on accounts that these phantom companies were ordered by "Belgrade Bank" and Borka Vukic had at "Cyprus popular bank", whose legal successor is "Marfin popular bank". If it doesn't turn out that I'm a coward and I'm saying a lot of things, I'll read you just part of Dinkic's report, because I've come into possession of a secret report where it says - top secret. This is what the representatives of the Dinkic Commission, of course, do not have time to quote everything, say something about this issue: "Belgrade Bank" in Cyprus organised the admission of funds at the expense of its committees on the basis of the inflow of "Cyprus popular bank" by giving its committees instructions to channel funds by their customers in favour of imaginary companies. These aren't even the phantoms of the Shore Company anymore, they're made-up, completely nonexistent. I repeat, this is the report by Dinkic's commission, "How much Trade", "Emesis Trading", "Napasol Trading", "Orlanda limitid", "Doposos Trading", "Aspida", and so on. When Cyprus popular bank received an inflow in favour of one of the companies, it was in agreement with the "Belgrade Bank" in Cyprus to direct funds to the bank account or to the bank-controlled company. Further transfers were made in favour of the company whose inflows, as described above, so that "Cyprus popular bank" did not operate in the prescribed manner. That even Dinkic found out, and that's the problem. Madam Minister, I don't know, I guess you didn't know that, but this isn't a naive story at all. I'm just asking you to check this out, if this is a bank that, with the help of former Cypriot President Tassos Papadopoulos, participated in the "Cyprus Money" affair, in an affair that unknowingly led to billions from Serbia, which I filed two years ago against Mladjan Dinkic for criminal charges against which the prosecution does not respond, either by trial or rejection. I'm afraid of negative connotations that can be guaranteed to this bank in public if she's a legal follower of the Cyprus popular bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23984	National MP Radojko Obradovic, deputy president of the Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23985	I thank Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, Mr Ljajic, above all, when this session is open, it seems to me on Wednesday last week, according to our Rules of Procedure, it is possible to unite the agenda points, it has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and these four points, as you have explained, are united. Now you've dropped it, it's not even the authorized proponent of a united debate on Wednesday, and you've dropped it to explain the link between the Budgetary System Act and the Labour Act, although we can explain it in the course of a debate. I've carefully read both the law and the law, and I haven't been able to figure out these essential links that connect these two laws, except they're part of one state. There are former MPs among you, so perhaps Mrs Stojanovic could explain it to us. These are four extremely important laws and I fully agree with you that the Budgetary System Act is one of the basic laws for the functioning of the state. If the public sector is between 45 and 50% of GDP, then it is even more important to commit ourselves to this law. I can understand why you went on a complete change of law. This could have been done with amendments and additions to the existing law, but I agree that it's always better to make a comprehensive proposal, avoid possible failures, and then it's a unique proposal. I agree with what you've done. Also, I find another reason you haven't pointed out, but it's very important to change the existing law to cover the tracks of the one that's in force. In fact, in the past year, he's been broken indefinitely many times and we're breaking him right now. To remind us once again, a member who provides for the budget to be proposed to the Assembly on November 1st has been violated. The budget was proposed more than a month later. A member has been proposed who says the government must deliver a budget inspection report. We haven't received that report yet. A member has been proposed who says you have to deliver the Memorandum with the budget. I didn't see that the last change in the budget that was made in April resulted in a change in the Memorandum. You did the Memorandum for 2010 but changed the basic parameters on which economic policy was based in 2009. In the Budgetary System Act, which is now in force, and in this one you are proposing, you are not saying anywhere that the budget revision can result in a lack of revision of the Memorandum, it is said to be a unique continent. If the most important parameters on which economic policy is based are changed, this must also result in a change in the basic act. You also violated a member who said you needed to deliver the final bill to us by July 1st, you delivered it on July 6th. The current law is on July 1st, you changed it in this proposal and now it will be July 15th. In the law now in force, it was July 1st. It's not bad that we leave some of these ugly experiences behind, forget all this stuff you've been doing for the past year and turn to the proposal that's ahead of us. I welcome the new definitions that you have introduced and the central level of the state and the general level of the state, we particularly welcome the introduction of the concepts of 'vanbudzjet funds'. So far, we've had a situation where many of the legal entities the state transfers public powers to are not subject to any control, any inspection. Since they're not part of the budget, the budget inspection can't control them. Since they're not part of the state administration, the state administration's inspection can't control them, and it's possible that different things are happening there. What I do not understand, I suppose, is that in the end – do the chambers fall under those legal faces? Public powers are transferred to the chambers of the state, so there are both the Medical Chamber and the Pharmaceutical Chamber and the Engineering Chamber and many others in which membership is binding to do your job. I'll give you an example of the Engineering Chamber. You need to graduate from technical school to become an engineer. You have to do your degree's work. You have to work in the profession for two years. You have to pass a state exam to the state authorities, and the structure of that exam defines the competent ministry. After all, you have to join the Chamber, pay your annual membership fee, get a license from them so you can do the job. When we were trying to figure out what the status of these chambers was -- they were founded by law, membership in them is binding, and no state body controls them. I don't think these are the funds that are worth hundreds of millions of euros, but in any case, they have transferred public powers to certain institutions that no one is then controlling. This certainly opens the way to control all that and that's the thing we're going to say hello to. You have particularly pointed out that responsibility is being stressed and I must note that this law introduces much greater powers on the ministries and the government, which will be able to control all direct and indirect budget users and all legal persons in the out-of-budger funds. One thing you forgot, and that's the government's responsibility and responsibility for the Secretary-General. There is absolutely no mention in this law that the government can be responsible for anything and that a resolute minister for anything can be responsible for. It seems to me that it's a huge flaw, if there's no such responsibility, then the system isn't really rounded up. You specifically pointed out that the Budget Memorandum would be a more comprehensive document than ever before. What happens to situations like we did now. Once again, there is a legal gap as to what will happen if we have three or four different budgets over the year. Is there going to be a Memorandum every time? That's not what the law says, because it says the government is delivering the Memorandum to the Assembly, delivering the budget and delivering financial plans. If the major elements of economic policy change, the Memorandum must change, because the memorandum ceases to apply. What is our objection to a member who defines the content of the debate on the budget, for the first time there are laws left to allow for the budget to be filled. This article does not indicate that you have an obligation to deliver any accompanying laws. That can be understood, but that's what the previous Law said. We also propose that public procurement plans be included in the framework, as an integral part of the budget. Because everywhere in developed EU countries, a plan for serious public procurement must be an integral part of the budget. You have to admit that these are things that aren't planned 15 or a month ahead, but they have to be planned much longer. So the public procurement plan would also have to be an integral part of this act. As for the budget calendar, I'm surprised you stayed on the current budget calendar, because November 15th is still due, November 1st is still a deadline when it comes to the Assembly. Nowhere in the developed countries of Europe, the budget is adopted so late. It's usually adopted in October, farthest, there, somewhere, by November 10th or 15th. I don't see any reason for Serbia not to go that way, and for us to take this thing further seriously by moving the calendar a month ahead, the team that we had rather dramatic situations earlier, to wait for the last day of the session and some dramatic sessions in which we have to adopt the budget in a few days. We think November 15th is enough to adopt the budget so that local self-government has enough time to adopt the budget by the end of November. It's December 25th. It is a very interesting provision relating to temporary financing. It's very important that you changed the provisions that are now in place, but it's not good that you crossed the picture of a particular event that we had two years ago. In fact, our Budget System Law envisioned temporary financing for three months. And what happens on April 1st if the budget isn't adopted? We have situations, practically, that we haven't had a four-year cycle I don't remember for how long. It is very realistic that the elections are in December or January, in a situation where the government does not work, there is no one to adopt the budget. Negotiations on the duration of the government, it is the last time they lasted less, but they can last long enough. What happens if the budget isn't adopted? Should the state stop, under the current law, on April 1st, if the budget is not adopted on March 31st? Of course not. Do we need to go to a state that isn't regular? You crossed the situation we had in 2007 when the temporary funding was extended by three months. You are now stopping the state on July 1st, because you say – the budget must be adopted. You have to propose a budget by November 1st, so you didn't propose it. You have to propose a memo, so it's gone. You have to propose a budget inspection report, too, so he's gone. I think it's a much better solution to go to 1/12, that if the budget is not adopted, that the funding is done from month to month, until the budget is adopted, and that each month it can be financed and spent 1/12 of the previous budget. It's a much healthier solution. Everything has to, so nothing happens. You've introduced specific budget constraints. You have one member who says that during the debate in the Assembly it is possible to change the budget, but you are giving restrictions that the National Assembly cannot affect the deficit and cannot reroute the surplus. I totally understand your idea and I can agree with that initial idea of yours. You cannot in one law restrict the rights of the National Assembly. It's just not possible. This limits the rights of MPs during the debate on the budget. I have an understanding and I understand why you suggested it. You can't do that because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia doesn't know that. You can't impose such a thing. It happens that amendments are accepted here, and ultimately the votes of members of the ruling majority have changed the importance of the Excise Act, so you've brought the law back to debate. You have thus limited the constitutional right of the National Assembly and directly imposed restrictions on the National Assembly by this law. Also, you could say the budget is an immutable act and it cannot be submitted to the amendments, it cannot be changed because it is our policy and it is over. That's the next step. You can't define it that way. As far as reporting goes, we've already said it's working pretty badly. There are a number of obligations, but nothing happens if you don't meet those obligations. As far as reporting is concerned, we have imposed on all situations an obligation to inform the congregation. For example, you predict that there is a possibility if you have free resources on your budget that you can invest them in domestic and foreign financial markets. And that's commendable. If you have free resources, of course you need to invest them. There should be a rule that applies in football, which is a rule, since you often quote the rules from some other sports – football is a game where you give and receive goals. In other words, if you invest funds, you can make money, but you can also lose because there is no investment that is 100% safe. Therefore, if it is dealing with state money, then the National Assembly for such situations must be informed within an acceptable short period of time that such a thing is happening. We're still having a unclear time here, whether our foreign exchange reserves were placed in some of the banks in America, which, for example, were in serious financial troubles. Probably not. We never got a concrete answer to that question. Therefore, we support a member like this, but we ask that the Assembly be timely informed that, one day, much less all together, our heads hurt. We fully welcome the idea that our own incomes are being analysed and monitored in a different way, rather than taking into account that in the previous rebalancing, just over two months ago, we adopted the Law of Obligation to make 40% of our own revenues an integral part of the budget. It seems to me that something bad is going on with the application of that law, and it seems to me that neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Government is able to implement that provision until the end. Own incomes are a pretty black hole in our public finances system and absolutely have to be more transparent and controlled and monitored. We welcome the fact that an integral part of the first budget is shown its own income. We hope that with these amendments under this bill, it will only go in the direction of strengthening these instruments. He's a very interesting member of the 105th Law. There is no Mr. Ratkovic, president of the Legislative Committee. Article 105 of the Law says a very interesting thing – if the provisions of other laws, or regulations, do not comply with this law, the provisions of this law will apply. I have to admit, a very unusual solution. There are not many of these laws unlimited, but today you have been in session of the Assembly and you have seen how many different ways the provisions of the Rules of Procedure can be interpreted, in doing so, can be violated by procedure, but may be damage by procedure or not. This is a law that should regulate 50% of Serbia's gross social product. You have to admit that it's not good to have a provision that's so vague, because it's going to require a million different interpretations and possibilities to regulate the same thing in different ways. I had a chance to see the bill too. There was something else written there (it was done months ago). I don't know why you chose one such thing, and I don't know how it's possible that the provision of one law, which is exactly the same legal force as any other law, can undo the provisions of any other law. It is a roof law, but as soon as there's a bill in the title, our legal system doesn't know the laws of the first, second and third order. It's rather unusual that you did it in this bill. Of course, when we get to the deadlines when the law is applied, the programming part of the budget, the famous desire to introduce order into the budget, is valid only since 2015. When we remember that the programming part of the budget is the Ministry of Religion, not the Ministry of Infrastructure or the Ministry of Economy, then it's clear why this is. Is it possible that the government of the Republic of Serbia needs six years to move on to the programming part of the budget? Well, I guess each of these programs that are being implemented in any of these ministries should mean that there's some paper or some program, and it takes six years to get us in line? We absolutely think that the deadline is set on a flat-rate basis, that it's waiting for some next government. Six years is practically another and a half election cycle and it's only waiting for us then. Why wouldn't it be 2012, if we didn't go too far, we don't have to do some things quickly, but in 2012, it's quite acceptable. We have proposed an amendment that changes and introduces responsibility. Since you said that the stressed responsibility is one of the basic dimensions of this law, Article 103 provides responsibility for the violation of this law. We suggest that the last indent be added that says that all those who do not respect the deadlines and provisions of this law are trespassing. Well, if the Minister, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does not respect these laws, then they must be in the ranks of all others, because if a forced administration for local self-government can be introduced, I see no reason why the Assembly would not control the government's work. You yourself said that the purpose of this law is just to introduce a control system. To conclude, we think it is good to amend this law, we have proposed a number of amendments, which we will also talk about some other aspects, which I have not arrived at for this short time, so by adopting these amendments, this law would certainly be significantly improved. You'll see, as always, the amendments are very correct and affect only the important things in the law. The adoption of these amendments would significantly improve this law, as it certainly does not allow to meet all those objectives that you have set. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23986	The word is from MP Djordje Milicevic, the authorised representative of the SPS-JS Group, after which the MPs of the People's Republic of Jorvanka Tabakovic. I only ask you to register in the system and please all MPs – just one push on the button, they are registered in the system and no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23987	The Honorable Madam Chairman, respected ministers, respected ministry representatives, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Budgetary System Act is the most important act in the area of public finances that regulates the planning, adoption and implementation of the Republic's budget, AP and local self-government, as the financial plans of the republican funds. The previous law, as stated among other things, was adopted in 2002, after which frequent changes were made and complemented in order to improve the budget system, improve the vault business, tighten responsibility and spend funds. The new law is passed after seven years. I have to remind myself of a law that's been going on for 18 years and has finally been implemented in this bill on the budgetary system. The public income and public expenditure law was passed in 1991 and was a comprehensive regulation in the area of public finances. The system of regulating public income and public expenditure set out in this law applies today, and why it is not incorporated into the previous Law, there is probably some kind of response. Indeed, it sounds incredible, but it is true, that a large number of agencies financed from the budget and spending taxpayers' money in the previous period have been out of control. I can't help but feel that they, calculated on speed, multiplied and involved in budget financing, and all the well-intentioned criticism of their business and functioning in the past period may have been in one particular way and justified. The involvement of agencies in a consolidated Treasury account system should give better and more effective control of these users, i.e. more rational spending of budget funds. I think it may be a somewhat delayed measure, but it is necessary to control the previous spending of budgets. It also needs to be supported by a significant paper in this law, which refers to the inclusion of health care institutions under the headings of indirect users of the Republic Health Insurance Institute, which means that the financial plans of the health care institutions will be included in the financial plan of the Republic Institute. Article 2 of this Law clearly defines sixty basic concepts relating to public finances, and some of them, as among other things, introduce them for the first time. I would particularly highlight here the medium-term planning, which so far has been neglected in a certain way, then defining the EU's development assistance and co-financing of EU development programmes, which creates conditions for using these funds, and I am particularly glad that the budget rebalancing term has been restored, instead of the additional budget that is being implemented everywhere, and also we have always been used and I simply think that it should not have been changed. The main budgetary objectives aimed at maintaining overall fiscal discipline, allocation efficiency, comprehensive control of total budgets, low inflation, economic development and fostering regional development must also be respected by the current authorities when preparing and adopting budgets. In my opinion, these principles have so far been used as the basis of the new government in dealing with the previous one, from the republican level to the local self-government, which is not good. In particular, it is a significant member of the 10th of this law which clearly and precisely defines the opening and keeping of sub-accounts, the consolidated account of the Treasury and the investment that regulates the allocation of funds, which has been a problem in practice so far. In this regard, there is also a member of 33 who needs to make public investment more transparent, the way they are financed, which has so far been widely and globally shown in individual divisions, i.e. by ministries. Investment works and their funding represent, in my personal view, a space for major corruption from the public procurement process to their final realization. Public investment business is a priority and is related to exiting the economic crisis. It seems to me that we all agree on this, also determine the direction of future development, so I do not understand why the provisions of the laws governing this area will only apply since the 2011 budget process, i.e. the provisions of the programme part of the budget will not apply in general until 2015. My personal opinion is that budget users in the area investment should urgently prepare medium-term plans and bring them into the Memorandum for next year, which would clearly define their work and development programme. In addition, this would also be a real basis for the use of EU development funds and development aid. I think it's done a little bit of a shrill up until now. Also, I believe that public investment businesses are subject to special control in spending funds, but the law does not prescribe special control of these transactions. I believe that, when submitting the report, for example, from Article 76 of this Law, the government should also submit a special report on the implementation of investments and a report on the control of the spending of funds, which will be carried out by a budgetary inspection or by the State Auditing Institution. A significant newspaper is in the event of a forced charge on the burden of the budget, given that so far it was the easiest thing to do was to make an emergency payment from the budget, thus jeopardising the liquidity of the budget and changing the purpose of the adopted budgets, which actually meant that court rulings were above the legislative function of the Republic Parliament, the Republic Assembly. As for the deadlines from the budget calendar and the calendar of the submission of annual financial reports and the final account, I don't think they should be a dead letter on paper. In practice so far, these deadlines, in a certain context, are not respected, which has been very often the subject of public criticism and unseriousness. Although the reasons were, I must say, mostly justifiable and objective, in particular, budgetary users must be disciplined to meet their legal obligations in a timely manner with regard to the budgetary calendar. At the very end, when it comes to this legislative proposal, I would like to say that the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. It is, therefore, in our opinion, a comprehensive law that regulates the area of public finances, I am taking the opportunity to wish for a minister as little change and its adaptation to individual situations as possible, and to the ministries, in order not to simply experience the fate of the previous legislative proposal. As for the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, I would also like to say that this proposal will also have the support of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club. Of course, we find it logical to support the reasons for bringing these changes and additions. In fact, fundamentally speaking, it is about prescribing Republic administrative fees for actions carried out under the Law on political parties and sublegal acts adopted under the Foreign Law. It is two legislative proposals adopted after the last adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I also want to say, what is already said, among other things, in order to encourage innovation activities, it is proposed to reduce taxis by 50% in cases where the applicant is also proposing to reduce taxis for the recognition of patents, small patents, topography and integrated cars, i.e. rights to design, physical face, and also, these changes and additions are proposed to reduce fees for permits for international public transfer of things to a domestic transporter. The legislative proposal will also have the support of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club. When it comes to the draft law supplementing the Labour Act, I would like to say that we support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in a certain way, in a situation where in the business of a number of companies and businesses feel the negative effects of the economic crisis, by reducing the volume of work and job shortages, we support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to, in a certain way, prevent the formation of excess employees or the termination of employment relations in certain companies where the negative effects of the economic crisis are felt through the formulation of a legal basis, that employers can refer employees to paid leave and over 45 working days. We, once again, want to make it quite clear and precise to say that the SPS-JS Parliament Club supports this measure of the government's efforts. We believe that she is fully justified, that she deserves support. But, on the other hand, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Club, in agreement with the representative union of Serbia, also submitted a number of amendments aimed at getting better quality additions to the Labour Act, i.e., in our opinion, in a safer and better way to try to protect employees' rights, i.e. workers' rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23988	The word has been passed by MP Jorvanka Tabakovic, deputy president of the Group of MPs, forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23989	Thank you. A session scheduled with four points of the agenda according to my assessment and the assessment of those who know how significant this law is, in fact, will be dedicated to the very Law on the Budgetary System. On this occasion, using time intended for a representative of the parliamentary group, I will speak only of this law and, indeed, I must admit that the entire mandate of one minister and the mandate of one MP is worthy of such a law in the meaning of this law. There are laws that are important, because they regulate areas of a kind of activity, regulate the lives of some groups, young, old, sick, healthy, culture, etc., but the Law on the Budgetary System is not only the law on one fiscal year or three, as you predict, this is the law that regulates and supports the economic policy of a country, which determines how public funds are available, whether they are controlled, in which way and I think this is one of the most important laws that came into this assembly. That's the point, I'm saying it really should've been passed as a new law. I have to, and for the first time I think I'm able to say it like this, because I'm never ashamed, and I'm not embarrassed, because it doesn't diminish the value of the party that I belong to, or my personal value, to give credit to the minister's efforts and the best intentions that are obvious in this law, that the professorly precise dictionary of the person who wants to arrange this area is best seen, but that the government can do everything itself, the opposition wouldn't be necessary. And so, I'm not asking for an apology, I want you and me as opposition and government, at this point, not to raise a wall of misunderstanding, but I want you to listen openly to the objections that I have to make, and with a unique goal, that tomorrow, when we come to power, we inherit a good law that will not be necessary later to change and will not depend on one government to another. I think this law provides a good framework, for that kind of thing, to say, the foundation, but really, there are objections that I can bring down to what's called life. If our intention is to single-handedly regulate the use of public funds and their control, are you sure, Madam Minister, that they will, for example? The Securities Commission and the Competition Protection Commission, both Commissions, under this law, have to run budgetary accounting, that to invest funds and deposit with banks they will have to ask you to agree. Is it going to be equal to a budget inspection on their doors and, as I think, that they should, from this law, have to make purchases in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, because they fall under one of those criteria, that either the state is their founder, or that they have over 50% of the state's governance over them, or that over 50% of the revenues come from budgets, to say, the users, or, they belong to that group of organizations, management, agencies, which the government has given them to do with some work, in fact, make significant revenues? Does this law guarantee us that all those you, and I congratulate you on fighting, which was the amendment of Jorgovanka Tabaković, on 4 March 2008, that all public funds will be entered into the consolidated account of the Treasury, I congratulate you for fighting it, but one such unity for which everyone will congratulate you. If something is missing in Serbia, it is that the laws apply equally to everything, and if something is needed to the people, it is to realize that the state is going when it wants to ensure the fair use of what we have, and what we have is not great. I'm not sure that this law provides it, not because the solutions in it are not indicated, but I think that in some parts it was necessary, so we've amended-reacted, even more precisely, to edit some areas. Chinese expressions, rhubarb phrases, ambiguity of termology suffers diplomacy. Budget, figures and our economy – difficult. So it says 'exceptionally', which I will individually elaborate each of them, doesn't allow the government to be extremely comfortable when it introduces temporary funding, when it allows itself a double-long deadline, so extend the temporary funding of satra to six months, because then it questions the Institute of Rebalancing, the government's support to secure the adoption of a budget in such a home as the Assembly, in this law there are too many comforts for the government, and that doesn't mean that it has for you personally. I have even submitted an amendment in which you, as Minister, have unnecessarily assumed responsibility for the implementation of the budget. In the next position of the member, the government is said to be responsible for the execution of the budget. We don't need more responsibility than the government. I appreciate your personal ability and courage to stand behind budget execution, but that simply doesn't mean in the legal sense of us, well, I guess the Prime Minister whose choice you are, and within the Government, you can't do anything if all those who create incomes, who spend resources, that affect expenditures and receipts don't help that your responsibility for budget execution means responsibility for success, not responsibility for guilt. I have no doubt that your personal intention is the best, but the government here is too, I suppose, pushing you to enter an actual moment. That moment is called the Government has a thin majority, the government is going along the edge of 126, and therefore it needs the possibility to introduce temporary funding within a double deadline, to introduce a suspension of budget funds, so it needs to say that only major deviations in the final account will be explained. He can't just be big. You know, the final bill agrees or disagrees. Deviations, even the slightest deviation must be explained, because this time is difficult and this situation when budgets are spent must be explained by all deviations. Because what may be great for you, for us is much greater, what is little for you, from the point of view of those who spend funds, for the Serbian citizen is huge. Let us not allow relative concepts to fog a picture of a law that has good intentions. Mostly earning, I'm talking about the use of indefinite terms that I am reacting to, but that slightly disrupts the good assessment that I give of the accuracy of the law, mostly making revenue on the market -- over 50%, but it's not that you can't express yourself, it's the requirement of the one who says: my majority is tight, the one who gives orders. Well, if you leave yourself a discretionary right to give a budget user, direct or indirect, consent to keep their assets deposited with a bank, not a Treasury, it means that maybe inside the government, most of them will be compromised, so you'll have to make an exception for someone from that coalition that you by the criteria and as one just and strict finance minister, otherwise you wouldn't, if these exceptions bother me and you can't find themselves in a law that should last and be serious and good. Because who needs something clouded or dependent on the will of a man without being able to assess it precisely by law? Well, it takes someone who doesn't want to be seen, for example, a mess, a derelict in finance, which you probably came across, or you think everything's clear enough without us seeing it very well. No, it's not clear enough, starting with the objectives of the budget. I don't expect you to answer my question at all. It simply cannot be called a budgetary objective a measure, as you say in the budgetary objective that the budgetary objective is macroeconomic stability, low inflation, economic development, fostering regional development and reducing the financial risk of the Republic of Serbia. No, Madam Minister, the objective of the budget and economic policy and the governance and exercise of government - must be to reduce unemployment, with sustainable economic growth. So – yes, economic development is also the goal of improving population standards. I assure you, it is not contrary to the economic logic that employment and wages are the primary objective, because it is the purpose of governmental conduct, and wages are not the cost, salaries are the demand. The one who receives the salary goes to buy at the store, so it increases the demand for the goods of those whom this government helps with the loans. I don't expect you to adopt it, but I'm really surprised that we've mixed goals. The goal is standard, pay, live, be able to live off your work, but you can't do it, receive the salary you can buy from and have the right demand if you have high inflation or if you don't have macroeconomic stability, you have to secure it as conditions, but the goal is employment. And what I'm saying isn't just my logic of life. You know that the German Government project for overcoming the crisis is called – ensuring employment through strengthening the economy. So those we look up to, and those whose banks, like the German state-owned KFV, come here to lend us loans, I expect one day to be like them, having their own state-owned development bank, do it without hiding what their goal is. So, employment as a goal. From a dispute on what our objectives are, to what you ultimately carry out through the memorandum requirements as a descriptive obligation, to compare the borrowing, debt and guarantee ratios, in line with the GDP level, only one small thing is missing, and which, by which, the borrowing values we seek as a country? I have responded to the amendment in such a way that I have written, prescribed from what a great Germany, as rich, has set itself as a goal, which can pay off loans easier than we do, that government debt to the public sector is allowed at a maximum of 0.5% of GDP. Yeah, it's from a program that's expected, not in a time of crisis like this, to be implemented, but we have to have a goal called -- that borrowing this country in terms of borrowing the state public sector must have some limit beyond which we can't go. Of that determination and conflict on what the goals are, I'm just going to point out a few basics. The definitions you have given in the budget are indeed commendable, from what is considered public funds, what is considered revenue, incomes, expenditures, is absolutely defined and the level of state and what is a consolidated account of the Treasury and many in Article 2, but what is the key which is called – the budget, has again remained deliberately denied for everything called a clear picture of what the obligations of the state are, what its property is, what its claim is and what its debts are, above all. In that sense, I think it was necessary to define the budget as a comprehensive income and income plan, not only on the basis of that financial, therefore, non-financial property, it – buildings, we buy and sell, etc., but should also be covered by the procurement and receipts, as well as the costs related to the purchase of that so-called. financial assets. I don't expect you to tell me -- the revenue of the budget is a loan that comes into the budget this year, but he is this year, and he has to be invested somewhere, and in order to monitor where he's invested, control it, we have to show it and make a commitment by showing that income, because sooner or later he'll come for payment. Don't argue for yourself that this is part of the budget when you list the receipts and expenditures of the state and when you state what the total fiscal surplus is, or deficit. You speak very openly that in addition to the subsidies given in the form of budget loans, and the acquisition of financial assets are actually expenditures. It's simply necessary, I know you won't accept, your methodology is your thing, but it would be necessary to enter into budget terminology all what is considered: receiving, income, and expenditure and expenditure. As I object, why are you not in Article 14, just as you did in Article 19, you counted those other public revenues. In other public revenues, you left interest on investment funds. So, budget users who have extra money in this crisis, so they invest them, which is why I, the Serbian Progressive Party, Club Forward Serbia, only leaves you with the right and responsibility to invest funds. Just you! Because we trust you, because we expect responsibility from you, and do you only know when?- I'm sorry. Only when you don't have a record show of value for overcoming the current indifference and when you're not in debt. Because a man who needs to take credit and pay interest on credit or on records, vaults or charters, can't get at a cheaper price a loan on the other side and deposit his assets somewhere higher. It just doesn't make sense. Ask the citizens – is there a bank that gives more interest on the funds invested than it can get a loan somewhere? So, deposits are at a lower price and from them are formed and based on them is the price of the loan. We've ruled out your right to invest money while you're in debt, in any way, but you can't borrow other companies, not from KRT, not from budget users at the local level, because budget money isn't meant for monetary speculation. It's not meant to be guarded, you have to provide, and we're going to ask you the most, an insight into the money deposited in the business banks, and it's not with you or just informing you about it. You've got to make the most of it based on the availability of that money. It's a real Pareto effect or an allocation you mention in the budget. Not to be nice, so let them invest, so they get interest I can't see in these public revenues here and no one can. Because the first table where you show the budget, give it together on the basis of Article 14 — other public revenues. They contain interest, gambling revenues, only significant, I say, there are rent incomes, incomes from the state-owned properties. But there's not even one income here. Privatisation income is not shown at all as a special and independent income. I wonder, what was the criterion? He's not a traitor. That's not true. He was the most generous. He is one-time, so Djelic spoke. It is one time in terms of this one company that has been sold, but it is not something that only appears in one financial year. Privatisation is not finished and for social enterprises, it will also be for the public. It's a income that exists continuously and has to be visible. Why does he have to be visible? Because you have to answer us for the funds that are, in their own sense, the subject of the biggest dispute, not newspaper gossip, but the affairs that need to be given to an epilogue in court, which are privatisation revenues and privatisation failures, the reason that many are protesting and not working in their factories. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23990	Thank you. The time available as an authorised representative has expired. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milorad Buha, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23991	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, today we have in the debate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia four very important laws, among them the most important proposal for a bill on the budgetary system, because the Law on the Budgetary System is a backbone and a foundation, a backbone of the economic and financial system, and as such deserves special attention. That is why the SRS Parliamentary Group has devoted much time to study the basic provisions of the bill's proposal, to suggest that and offer certain solutions. However, based on our analysis, we have come to the conclusion that this bill is incomplete, that it is unsystemic, that it is inflexible and that the SRS cannot accept it. We will give a special explanation for each of these facts that I have presented and we will discuss and offer certain legal, economic and financial aspects, which is why we do not accept the provisions of this bill. The legal and technical aspects of this bill, those that are unacceptable to the SRS, are certain members who are not compatible with each other and are not in line with the current legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Article 1 The draft law defining the subject matter of regulation does not cover the budget system of autonomous provinces. In Article 3. The bill, which sets out the definition of the budget system, lacks a provision on the budget system of autonomous provinces. The basic observation stems precisely from this finding. In Article 1 The bill of law states that planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget of autonomous provinces are being carried out. In Article 3, there is no budgetary system of autonomous provinces, but also the provisions of the bill, which are called in linguistic terms by an autonomous province, we assume it refers to the AP Vojvodina rather than to both autonomous provinces. For this reason, we also warn you in the constitutional sense of the provision and the linguistic presentation of certain concepts, and you must coordinate this. When you norm responsibility for the adoption and implementation of the budget, the system of consolidated Treasury accounts, the way in which funds are invested from the budget, there is no mention of the budget of autonomous provinces. When you talk about types of public income and income, you list them as sources of funding for the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces, it is in Article 24. It's a bill of law. Suddenly, the budget of autonomous provinces appears, and there is no provision for Article 24 on the budgets of autonomous provinces. When certain deadlines represent a budget calendar or fiscal year and temporary financing are defined, deadlines for the adoption of the budget of autonomous provinces are not mentioned anywhere, and the bill provides clear deadlines for the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government, as well as deadlines that form the fiscal year and conditions for temporary financing. The provisions of the bill relating to the preparation, assembly and submission of annual financial reports, the final account, refer only to the republican budget and the budget of the local authorities, while the provisions on the budgets of the autonomous provinces remain. So, the incomplete system in both legal and financial terms, because if you want to round up the financial system and the budget system, then you have to include, by us, and the budgets of the autonomous provinces. Furthermore, the next remark. There is nowhere, or you have not put into the budget system the budgets of the capital, the budgets of the cities. Why? As with autonomous provinces, there are in the legal system the budgets of the Republic, the budgets of autonomous provinces, the capital budget, the city budgets and the budget of local self-government. Then in a systematic and comprehensive way, you solved the budget system. No autonomous provinces, no main work budgets, no city budgets, no comprehensive budget system. In which contradictions you speak best Article 85, where you say the establishment of a budget inspection on AP territory is envisaged to carry out inspection tasks in the AP area. This legal deficit regarding the AP budget, the city's budget, the capital budget, must be corrected because you do not have a single budget system. When we talk about the budget of autonomous provinces, especially from the aspect of the AP Vojvodina, there is a political background behind all of this, and we have to point it out. For more than a year, there has been a discrepancy between the central republican authorities and the provinceal authorities over the granting of consent to the provisions of the statutes. Meanwhile, the government has begun preparations to pass jurisdiction laws. The question is raised by the SRS – is this deliberately thrown out of the single budget system or is it a coincidence? According to us, it's not a coincidence because you know more than we do, and that's why we're telling you that you can't do it the way you suggested this bill. This is incomplete and as such is extremely unacceptable from political, legal, economic and social, etc. The reason. That's why we're asking for this law to be withdrawn, to create a whole budget system that includes the budgets of autonomous provinces, the budgets of the capital and the budgets of cities. In the provisions relating to income and income, we have no clear sources of income from the city, either, we do not have them on the flat side. It's unacceptable to leave that definition to another law. We have the Capital Act, we have the Law on Cities, and as such we can't, we're going through other legal regulations, this legislation that needs to be the backbone of an economic, financial and social system. In Article 71, which defines the question of liability for the purpose of using funds, no actual material of non-purpose use of funds has been processed anywhere. This is where we said who was responsible for the deliberate use of funds. In criminal provisions, we only have one provision, a criminal provision, which refers to illegal use of funds. It's a bad practice you had to correct, which you didn't correct. The penalty policy provided for in Articles 103 or 105 is also bad. We only have one member who refers to criminal policy and as such is incomplete, incomplete and will not produce results. In practice so far, and especially after October 5th, we have thousands of examples of non-intentional use, irrational use of funds, willful use of public funds, and therefore you have to pay particular attention to criminal policy. The experiences we have in these nine years show that without serious criminal policies, without serious work of budgetary inspection and budget inspections at the province and local level there is no dedicated use of funds. As for the budget calendar, the budget calendar you predicted here was inherited from the SRS aspect unacceptable. Every year in December, we have a panic by the authorities to adopt the budget. We witnessed an ovation here when the budget was adopted. The budget represents the backbone of the economic and financial system, it deserves special attention and must create ovations, but not only adoption, but provisions defining the budgetary system as a whole and the budget as the highest act in the area of finance. The SRS proposal is that this provision is amended, in the tenth month, the budget must be adopted, regardless of all problems in the economic and financial system, in the state functioning system, and especially in the economy. It'll give us security. Without that, we will be in trouble every year, and especially you from the government, to add, subtract, to agree and create legal assumptions, and later financial assumptions for budgeting. As far as the budget targets are concerned, I think you've absolutely missed. These provisions that you have defined in Article 4 are incomplete, unclear and therefore we propose to you this: budget objectives must be all that makes up an integral part of the budget both in political and legal terms. Furthermore, the target budget must give a clear picture of monetary stability, macroeconomic stability, sustainable and stable economic development, raising population standards, this must be our goal, price stability, social security and needs and specific social concerns for specific categories of population, fiscal policy taking into account the equal fiscal burden that corresponds to the economic strength of each individual. Furthermore, the most important thing in the entire budget system must be financial discipline. The provisions you've incorporated into this bill, and as far as budget inspection is concerned, are incomplete, vague, and if we add to that criminal policy, then we get the right picture that we're going to have the same condition as we've had so far. So we painted free, in the modern jargon. The ambiguity about determining the concept of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget is not resolved by this law. In practice, problems arise about individual legal entities, societies and associations financed from individual budgets, are also referred to the budget of autonomous provinces, local self-government, cities' budgets, etc. According to their character of work and operation, these legal persons, societies and associations should not be entitled to use public funds. This law didn't resolve it. The law did not provide clear principles on which to approve public funds, transfer these funds and restrict certain societies, associations, associations of citizens who cannot receive funds from budgets, individual budgets, and receive them. When we talk about revenue and revenue from the budget, the main observation is that privatisation revenues are not an integral part of the budget. They must, in their character, be an integral part, because it is a social property and as such must be shown in the budget. We point to a breach of the provisions of Article 61. The privatisation law, which provides for 50% of the funding from the privatisation process to be directed towards economic development and employment through the Development Fund. Unfortunately, this legal provision is not respected. On several occasions, the SRS pointed to this provision and a binding channelling of funds to the Development Fund. I personally asked several parliamentary questions, asking for information about how much funding was transferred to the Development Fund and how much it really went into development, and how much it went into employment - I didn't get the answer. Not because you don't have it, but because you can't take that information out. This is a direct violation of the legal provisions and someone will answer for this. You, Mrs Dragutinovic, will have to answer for the non-execution of certain legal regulations. Furthermore, when we talk about channelling, it is interesting to mention provisions relating to subsidies and what is happening in the Ministry of Agriculture. The ministry of agriculture and today stands out of the budget, and this is the 2009 budget, lags for 2008. No provision of this bill refers to this, not only to this delay, this delay in the payment of not only subsidies, but to all other ones relating to outstanding fees, commitments from the previous year. Here, I will read only part of this parliamentary issue here, and it clearly speaks about the character of the inter-resor work of the ministries, and that is particularly important from the aspect of the execution of obligations to farmers. Agriculture Minister Sasa Dragin said in the daily list "Politika" since 23.05.2009 that at a very difficult time due to the global economic crisis and in unfavourable conditions, he took over the management of the Ministry of Agriculture, and that the minus in the agricultural budget was 12.5 billion dinars and a billion dinars in the veterinary field. The agriculture minister and his ministry with professional services have often said through public information funds that he was also making payments this year for back-up fees that were not paid due to a lack of funds under last year's budget. My question referred to the following: – How financially explain the minus in the agrarian budget, why minus? Next, who created such a high minus in the agricultural budget in 2008? What beneficiaries of the agrarian budget were cut off by a minus 13.5 billion in 2008? What fees have not been paid to farmers in the calendar and budgetary year 2008? Under what legal rule were payments made during 2009 for commitments made in 2008? What are the financial reasons for late payments? How much is paid for by individual users etc., etc.? All this makes it clear – that we do not have a regulated legal system, that we do not have a fixed financial system. This bill does not allow that – to get a comprehensive, comprehensive and efficient system in which we will show all receipts and all budgetary expenditures, both at the republican level and at the level of the provinces, cities, capital, local self-government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23992	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. If not, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a joint principled search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group, the New Serbia MP Group, the Progressive Serbia Group, the DSS Parliamentary Group and the SRS Parliamentary Group. We're moving on to part of the debate. In accordance with the order of the MPs and according to the application for a word in the joint principled search, the proposals for legislation from 1 to 4. Points of the agenda. The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and after him, Miroslav Markicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23993	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, authorised representative of the SPS Group – the JS has issued a parliamentary group's position on the proposal of all four laws on the agenda today. Of course, the main discussion, the story, refers to the Law on the Budgetary System as a very important act of system law. I would like in the course of a single debate that I should dedicate a few words to a bill that should not remain in the shadow of previous laws, and that is the proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act. Given, above all, the programming definitions of my party, we are obliged to say a few words about it. The draft law supplementing the Labour Act is very short. It only contains two members. I'm going to quote from an explanation of two points where exactly the essence of the proposal to supplement this law can be seen. This law provides for the possibility of sending employees to paid leave due to temporary termination, which has been so far or due to a reduction in the volume of work, which is new in the proposal, for a longer period of 45 working days in the calendar year (to date there have been 45 working days), with the previous agreement of the Minister in charge of Labour Affairs. It's the whole law. That is, a bill to supplement the law. This creates a legal basis that employers must refer employees to paid leave and over 45 working days, instead of establishing surplus employees and ending employment in cases of job shortages and reducing the volume of work due to the fact of the global economic crisis. The second attitude is next. The proposed legislative solution will allow employers to reduce labour costs at longer working intervals and reduce labour volumes without having to resort to job cuts, which is in the interest of both employers and employees. So from just those two points of view, the Serbian government's intention is clear, which is why it proposes these additions. In this context, I would like to make clear the support of the SPS in the government's intention to take measures of incentives in terms of global crisis, help economic operators to overcome the crisis more easily, while at the same time fulfilling their obligation to ensure maximum protection of workers, which is ultimately government policy in these conditions, which is a priority to preserve jobs. The idea, the government's intention is to make it possible for employers to cope with the crisis more easily, while taking care of employees at the same time, because it is completely undeniable and it deserves support. No one's questioning that. I want to point out a few questions that the public is asking, above all, unions, and not one. We were approached by the Independent Union of Serbia, the United Union of Serbia "Sloga" and the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions. All three unions do not question the intention, but show fear of abuse by employers in the application of this law. I ask the Government, the Ministry, to take these objections seriously, to make clear to both the public and the union, and above all to promise, to establish as a commitment, that they will not allow abuse in the application of this law. There's three things here. First, what causes them to doubt? Reduce the volume of work that requires longer absence. What's up with the longer? Unlimitedly, people are afraid of being too long, indefinitely, etc. That's where they fear the possibility of abuse. Second in the first question – a reference to a longer absence. Again, people ask, and they have the right to receive a clear answer – what is there a longer absence? Is that another 45 days as they suggest, 90, 180, by the end of the year, etc? Of course, we need to be aware that the owner of the capital, the employer, is not in the interest of keeping the paid absence of the workers for a long time, for the simple reason that he pays something that he also needs to be in the interest of doing as soon as possible, or as short as possible, so that he can do full capacity. This requires a clear answer and a clear explanation not only for the unions, but also for the public. The second segment, which refers to the law, is that it can be referred to a paid leave with consent, I suppose, of the competent minister, of the labour minister. I think there's one question to take seriously, one remark. If that were only so, that the minister gives consent to the employer's decision to refer to the paid leave, I think it is too much responsibility for the minister to resolve these issues. Why do I think that? I think in that chain, the minister and he should be in the interest of providing the union's opinion in the process when the employer's request to refer to paid leave. It's not a small question. Because if such an opinion is needed in the termination of the labour contract, when the right to work is denied, it should also be an opinion here when labour rights are reduced. I think the minister should take this particular amendment seriously, that the minister, in the process of issuing consent, is seeking the opinion of the representative union of the area's border action. This releases part of our responsibility to the minister, on the one hand. Minister, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, who does his job well, must not be brought into the situation by this law to give consent in the morning, and in the afternoon he goes among the workers to silence dissatisfaction, etc. Please reconsider that before giving consent, the minister may request the union's opinion. I think that's an important question and something else. No progress, no exit from this crisis without social dialogue in Serbia. I think that this government should make an additional effort to encourage social dialogues, from business to state level alone, by avoiding that stereotype that always one gets, one loses, or the employer gets or loses, and the other one loses. No, but what is a minimum of common interest and employer and company employee, so that the company can function in the best way, and, on the other hand, the worker is protected. I think that dialogue provides, on the one hand, the flexibility of capital, and, on the other hand, provides protection, or security for workers. Of course, with the minister giving consent, he certainly needs to reassess with the union's opinion, whether everything is an economic crisis. Is there anything else behind that? Are these, say, companies that get incentives through stimulating loans, but on the condition that they don't fire workers, and the whole series is? After all, I think it is necessary to face it and I believe it will face one word that has become devastating in Serbia, which is 'consumption'. It can't all be cost! He's not a cost worker! The worker is a man who works, contributes. It's not the cost-added giving, it's the incentive, etc. Finally, the third remark that people make, and it requires a clear answer, that is, how long will these additions of the law apply? Why do I say that? There he says - the law comes into force after eight days. We all know that this is now brought about by the global economic crisis, but there is no limit in this law. The government, by taking measures for this year, has limited them for this year, so next year, if they need to be brought back. I think that even here, when it comes to the draft law on amendments to the Labour Act, there should also be one provision, when this global economic crisis is over – the law should no longer apply. Not to mention, in principle, we support the government's intention to pass a law like this, because it is in the interests of the employer and the employees, and, on the other hand, we ask that the state do everything, including through the adoption of these amendments to the union, to prevent abuses in the application of this law first and foremost. That's why I think there's a reason for the government to accept the union amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23994	I thank you, the word has a folk MP, Miroslav Markicevic, who is currently not in the hall. I give my word, time is already registered so that it does not enter into account, but thank you for the warning, and the word has Mr. Zoran Kasalovic. The remaining time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23995	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respecting the discussions of my previous colleagues from the SPS-JS Parliament Club who spoke more extensively about all proposed laws that are on the agenda of today's principle debate, certainly explaining the position of the SPS-JS to support all these legislative proposals, I will try, above all, given the time limit, to discuss a very significant law, on the budgetary system, and above all from the point of view of the paper that is related to the preparation and planning, i.e. the implementation and control of the budget of local self-government, which, in my opinion, can be the beginning of significant positive changes in this regard. First of all, in the first part, I would like to point out some newspapers that have come out of practice so far, and certainly are interesting and will make it easier for all those who deal with finance in municipalities. First of all, I am referring to the provisions of Article 5 which address the problem of transferring dedicated funds from other levels of government and donations that could not have been planned, and this way is planned and opened up the possibility of opening appropriate appraisals. In addition, if the beneficiary of the appropriations makes his own revenue in excess of the planned amount, there is the possibility of increasing the appropriations for the implementation of expenditures from those revenues. Of course, these provisions will help overcome the need for a non-national requirement to bring budget rebalancing in those cases. Also, the budget calendar in Article 31 has clearly set deadlines, and it should be mentioned what will certainly be a contribution to the conditions when there are problems with the adoption of the budget, that Article 46 of Article 10 prescribed that the period of temporary financing can be extended exceptionally for another three months if the budget is not adopted by 15 March of the current year, which will certainly allow for a better atmosphere to reach one good budget. Of course, it should be mentioned that in the event of the end of the existence of the budgetary user, it is possible to transfer these funds to the current budget reserve and that they can be used for the purposes for which the funds were otherwise intended, the permanent budget reserves, as prescribed in Article 61, by extending the circle of emergency circumstances for which the funds of the permanent budget reserve on the rinks, snow applications, the city, animals and plant diseases can be used. Also, I think we should mention the provisions in Article 52. Proposal for a law that overcomes certain observed dilemmas in practice through the regulation that the execution of expenditure is done first from other sources if planned and then from planned budgets. What I want, and it seems to me to be a single newspaper and an introduction to something new, special consideration and commentary, I think they deserve the provisions of Article 42(4), Articles 76 and 92. The bill, because, in my opinion, consistent application will create certain assumptions that the process and quality of planning, adoption, implementation and control of the budget of local self-government is significantly improved. In fact, the direct participation of citizens in public life at local level is one of the fundamental rights in a democratic society and certainly there is a need in the Republic of Serbia to improve the legal framework and practice in order to strengthen and accelerate such a single citizen's participation. Of course, it is a prerequisite for them to be well informed, timely and adequate, so that they can make their full contribution and their comments and thus share responsibility at the level of units of local self-government, which is also a recommendation from the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. It is therefore necessary for the financial budget documents to be published as soon as possible and if it is the urgency of this member to seek to avoid the practice so far, mainly to present only final accounts of the budget, in this way it will allow citizens to analyse and give their comments in good time, which certainly makes one of the main arguments of transparency. In addition, the principle of decision-making by local authorities based on the needs of citizens and taking into account their views will be affirmed. The provisions of Article 42(4) certainly represent an improvement of the legal framework and is just presupposing the obligation... (President: Thank you, Mr. Kasalovic.) )......................................................................................................... to bring the end, that the local authority in charge of finance at the moment of meeting also the citizens, which is certainly a prerequisite for more complete information. I would also like to mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23996	Unfortunately, time's up. Thank you. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23997	Thank you. I will continue the story of a law that I consider to be the most important law that governs not only the budget but the total spending of state resources. Something that had long been an observation at all in the way the law was passed and the budget, above all, was that the laws did not give us an assessment of the financial effects that this law would have on the budget and on the spending of public funds at all. Just one, I can say, the principle, indicates the way the minister covered it with the law. You have fought to have every legislator within the government and at a lower level, along with a bill of law or other regulations supply you with and an assessment of the financial effects that this law will have on the budget. But you didn't do it consistently now, as we expect, that, with the bill of law or any other regulation we adopt, you deliver it to us. You may have been up to it, but that's not what the law says. I tried to write the amendment that after that first position where an assessment of the financial effects is said, you get one obligation to submit an integral part of the bill's reasoning to the National Assembly for adoption, I say that you do not have to do all that you require of them as an assessment of the financial effects, which you literally and in detail analyse in Article 48, I simply expect, not all of it, but one part of what is called the conclusion of that analysis, to deliver to the MPs you are going to date with that law. There is no reason to keep that part of the information completely with you, but to deliver it to the National Assembly for adoption. If there is one general objection to this law, it is an attempt to keep the Assembly in one subordinate, completely passive state in relation to the Government and the matter of budgeting and all that precedes it in the course of adoption and in the course of execution. That I am right to say and the solution that you, Madam Minister, have provided a punishment for all other and lower levels, when they do not do what is defined by this law as a obligation and a deadline within which the budget calendar tells them to deliver and do something, but not for themselves. So, the government predicted for everyone what would happen if they didn't deliver the proposal in time, but she didn't say what was going on if the government didn't deliver the draft budget bill to the National Assembly on November 1st. Well, we didn't want to let the government not be responsible for anything. We have submitted an amendment where we say that if the Government does not submit a draft budget law with 1 November, it will automatically go to temporary funding, because you have provided for that punishment by law, that is, the consequences if the Assembly does not adopt the budget within the deadline given to it by the budget calendar, but the Assembly cannot adopt what you did not deliver to it. You must, and I really expect one such amendment to be respected. Why isn't that a punishment for you? For you, it's not a punishment for temporary funding, because you, in temporary financing, still have a comfortable framework for behavior. I'll explain that later. We really don't think that the government can behave so that it doesn't put itself in line with some kind of sanctions, and you can't consider the Assembly, on the other hand, a body that just needs to be informed that you've made some decision about the importance of citizens and the application of budgets, such as a temporary suspension. I see that in many parts of public life, what's called political, social life, the Assembly is end-of-the-mill, much to the credit, but unfairly many and inaccessible to those who decide on it. I don't want the budget system law to treat the Assembly that way, because it's just not possible. You can't take the right to judge for example, or, I don't think it's really an honor, and it's not just your fault, let yourself tell the Assembly – we passed the Public Debt Act in 2005, under that law we had an obligation to form a Public Debt Administration. You admit honestly, we appreciate that this administration hasn't started working yet, but you're asking us to do the Public Debt Administration's work until the Public Debt Administration is established. And yet there is no time limit for you to do so. Why would you try to make a law that lives, which obliges someone, restricts someone, when it can remain without punishment and a dead letter on paper, which we will boast when someone comes or when it is necessary to give an interview and say – we have adopted 200 laws? As Parliament Club Forwards Serbian Progressive Parties does, I will tell you, we have predicted that unless it starts working by 1 October 2009, the Public Debt Administration, the National Assembly will not pass laws and other acts relating to borrowing and guarantees after that deadline. So why should I go to criminal law, get in the way of violations? I'm simply saying - I have good intentions, many agencies have, in the meantime, established, more or less necessary, I won't say unnecessary. Your majority passed those laws, but somehow space and material conditions were found for them to work and people were trained to do the job, but the Public Debt Administration couldn't. I just don't think you have the right to have what's long come to pass, so it lasts as a problem or it's usually an excuse for something the government hasn't finished, to continue to force it as if it's simply possible and allowed. One of the worst possible things is that you predicted that, in exceptional cases, temporary funding could be extended, going in the first three months of the fiscal year, to another three months. If the fiscal year lasts 12 months, if it's a budget year, the exception can't be 50% of something. The maximum possible exception is that quarter, that's the first quarter you're talking about. Indeed, I think it will be the biggest failure of this law if that solution remains so defined. You even prescribe that in the event of temporary suspensions, if there are any reasons, you say that reduced income or I don't know what, that you can suspend the temporary implementation of the budget, with literally, you don't have the limits they're called – that they're going to pay off. You say you'll only have a limit, I'm talking about allocated expenditure in the previous year in temporary financing, except for payment of rights and pensions, pension and disability rights. Indeed, I don't think that's right, especially if you say this in another place, if you have a problem with funding, or temporary suspension, you're giving yourself the right to do what your priorities are, or I don't even know on what criteria you're saying you're going to fulfil your obligations so that you don't compromise some other constitution and law of defined obligation. But the Constitution prescribes a way of adopting budgets, and laws, as well as the budget law, establish only by law defined funding. Can someone, not a linguistic scientist, but one high-level economist and a doctor of science tell me, who must also know the law to some extent, whether there is more and less legal obligation to pay off budget funds and whether a user in the budget is in the way and by what criteria? Let's put aside the apron quota. You simply say by one provision of the law that no other rights would be compromised, you can deny some other rights. What can I see behind that? No, I'm not paranoid, and I don't think the debts we have and the debts we've accepted should be paid off. I do, but it really seems to me that at some point you can, under the pressure of the dues, for which there is no money from the regular budget revenues, decide to reduce social contributions, or even reduce salaries to budget beneficiaries, even though during the temporary financing you said you would not only touch pensions and other rights, but that does not mean that in the case you foresee, too, by law, you did not leave yourself the right to even question it. You prescribed yourself, how can I say, the conditions in which you can't hang in the air, in terms of payout, so you said, even if, for example, the rebalancing takes place, although you're just avoiding rebalancing, you're asking that you have all kinds of detours to spend budget money, but once there's a rebalance, you're saying you can continue with the temporary suspension of individual expenditures, and you're not saying how much. We're giving you the maximum period of 15 days. Because you're asking to inform the Assembly that you've made such a decision after a temporary suspension. It is really not allowed to do so in the division of power between legislative, executive and judicial authorities. We foresee the amendment that you must provide the Assembly with reasons why you are prepared to make a decision on a temporary suspension that may take 45 days and that the Assembly must declare it. We have given the amendment a deadline of only 10 days, such as that deadline and the longest deadline for the Assembly to declare it, but you can't, just as an insolent and arrogant person who parents support just say – here, I don't want to pay my obligations anymore, my dear parents, you see what you're going to do with it, take that in mind! I will, from now on, spend your money on how I think of it. The Assembly cannot, even not think that it is being humiliated by it, deny constitutional and legal jurisdiction to decide what is called public spending. You cannot make decisions for yourself to break the basic rules of payment from the budget without defining the deadlines, because it simply will not be an exception, but will become a rule, and will be the subject of political abuses, and it is, at this point, the degradation of the authority that has the Assembly. What I insist on is that you consistently exercise control over budgets and all public funds available to any body or organisation. In order for this to be truly feasible, I will repeat, you must establish in your rules: both budgetary accounting and records in those bodies, and budgetary inspection and deposit and investment of funds, as well as the application of the Public Procurement Act. You may not like the information that has appeared in the press the last few days, but it is the work of people who are analytically dealing with these finances, who say that the approximate value of the deficits that we have as a state by means of corruption channels and the abuse of public procurement systems is drained from visible channels of the state and its supervisory authorities. I don't want to make an ad to that author either, but it's a very interesting analysis that's been made, I can't argue that it's true, but we all know that the affairs are worth a few million each, in summation give a significant sum of the funds that the state has to, after all, and that's this beginning, this moment, to go and to supervise. Under the Public Procurement Act, all those who in any way have public funds must fall under the Law, because they do not come to them, to the means which they have, either by special skill, or by exceptional knowledge, but in 98 percent of the political membership of the parties who propose them either directly or indirectly, or through the Staff Committees, or through committees which, once again, are managed by a particular party, where certain people are promoted as independent, but it is quite clear that they are party people, whose party book should not be a method of advancement, diplomats, the greatest protection, and when they fail to spend their resources. I'm not saying that those who fall under the Public Procurement Act apply the law perfectly, that there is no failure, but it is necessary to place all those who spend public funds in the same position. I repeat, you must not miss that investing is not a local and all other bodies, and we have consistently implemented through the law excluding the possibility of investing local authorities. The municipalities can't complain that you've denied them transfer funds, and they are and should complain, as long as they have surplus assets that are invested, and that, even at the end of the year, they don't transfer them to the Treasury's account as they're obliged to do so. And why do they do that? If you were to find a mass of funds under control and management, you would have, as a mass of assets that is very significant, much more useful things you could do than each of them will, for example, get a more favourable loan from the bank at which he deposited funds or have some small, personal, divergence in interest, because he deposited funds with that bank. Generally, you must agree with me. Business banks, foreign or domestic, should have deposits and savings. But that's what citizens and businesses should invest in, not budget users, who, with pain, have this exhausted economy and citizens fill up their cash registers and accounts and sub-accounts, for which you've also got a deadline in which you have to control them. So, a serious state, which I expect to become Serbia, needs to make it possible for citizens to be employed, as a basic budgetary objective, which will have a decently paid job, which they will be able to save from, so that they can put savings to these business banks, as safe houses, where they will get, not one-on-one, but a decent interest, and that the economy, which otherwise has a liquidity problem, keeps its accounts in these business banks, and not that the state appears as the general owner, employer and investor. I personally advocate, and the party I belong to, that the role in the state is neither taken over by multinational companies nor by suprapolitical authorities, but everyone has to know their place and do their job. It is an opportunity for many of the users of state resources or public funds to show this time, in an authoritative and unequivocal way, how you should do it. I hope you don't miss that chance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23998	Thank you. I give the word to Mr Miroslav Markevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u23999	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transfer, New Serbia as regards the draft bill on the budgetary system, has the following statement: By consulting economic experts from our party, as well as people who are not in our party, we can, in principle, say that this law on the budgetary system is well intonated, so to speak, well written and quite clearly. We've given a few amendments, which I believe the Minister will, if he carefully examines them and makes them acceptable to them, accept them. I want to say, and by looking at and remembering the series, which I believe will start showing again on RTS, "The village is worse and the grandmother is combing," that we, Madam Minister, have had an extraordinary law, and that we have applied it more precisely and consistently, I think it would be better for both the Government of the Republic and the budget of our country, and of course, for the citizens, especially those who are beneficiaries of the budget. I do not want to repeat what the predecessors, my colleagues, representatives of the parliamentary groups, have said here, in terms of date, timing, time, when this budget law is proposed, is he respected last year and why these deadlines are not respected, what do I mean? We can pass an extraordinary law. - I will tell you the most openly, what economic experts have said to me, because I am openly telling you, I am not as professional as all MPs here are, so there are both party committees and independent intellectuals, economists, those we trust, who will honestly say. They say this law is pretty good, some say extraordinary, only if it's applied. We have a problem, not only with this law, but also with many laws that have been passed since 2000 in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which are extraordinary, that they are European, that they promise a lot, that they promise social justice, but when they need to be applied, they are either perverted, or explained, right now by this economic crisis, or I don't know what reasons. I would remind you of a few things, as Mrs Tabakovic said, I think, in a previous address – what life means. So it's all well written on paper, and how it's applied afterwards and how it reflects on citizens, and this time, I want to apostrophe local self-government. I've been a national MP here for nine years, Madam Minister, and it's always been with the draft budget law that has been the Transfer Assets Act. Last time I told you, it's a bookbook, so thick, where it took every MP to return to its local environment, to the cities and municipalities in which they live, to show what the criteria are. You know, that's where the number of students, the number of schools, this one -- that's what makes the relationship of the transfer funds, what you, or what you, the Belgraders, call us "provinces", we like to say, what you take from us, and then you give us a spoon. It's, in fact, the transfer funds. I have to remind you that for several weeks now, not to say months, fortifications of cities and municipalities, joined in the conferences of cities, are calling for applications and holding press conferences, I want in particular to apostrophe of applications and complaints of forty so-called small municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, but fortunately or unfortunately, we all need to ask ourselves, they are taking over, or affecting a third of Serbia's territory, and if this is how the transfer funds law applies, and if this is how the budget is allocated, they will not be able to survive. What does that mean? They will not be able to survive?- I'm sorry. So local self-government won't have the resources for their basic activities, upgrades, cultural, social, kindergartens, kindergarten employees, they won't be able to pay those salaries. So the last time I asked you about the price of gas, it turned out that the transfer funds law, why it wasn't in the Assembly, was some side topic. Now I'm giving you the opportunity to respond to these community presidents and citizens living in these municipalities, and I hope you've been very kind to me so far. When I mention the price of gas, why do I tie it to the budget system law. It seems to me that the RS government passed a regulation a few months ago, with which I agree in principle, that public companies must legally pay all their profits to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I thought it was for public enterprises to conduct rationalisation, which would make some savings to do better business, and then have a profit and make that profit into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. But that's not what this is about, some public enterprises are making a profit based on the fact that they're robbing citizens. I'm just going to read, for a short period of time, the last paragraph of your colleague's reply, Energy Minister Mr. Skundric, what he said to me as a MP, and the price of gas has become a top theme, I think, at least as far as New Serbia and myself are concerned, in person, for two months. ''The two parameters most affecting the price of an energy entity engaged in natural gas trade to supply tariff customers are: the import price of natural gas and the rate of dollars. The current price of natural gas and energy subject of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" was formed at the moment these values were, "I was talking about $450, and Mr. Minister corrects me and I thank him, so he says "496 dollars for a thousand cubic and 51 dollars for a dollar. Since already in October 2008 the US dollar rate increased by more than 30%, which is true, and now that course of around 67 dinars, unfortunately the director of a public enterprise, I have to report you as finance minister, he didn't know what the rate of dollars was, he thought that 77, maybe it was a lapus, was nothing problematic. What's the problem here? Mr. Minister doesn't say the price of gas on the world market is halved. When we figure this out, you're the first financier in this Serbia, please, since I see you following what I'm saying, you take $496 times 51, I've calculated that it costs 25,296 dinars. And now $230 times 67 dinars, 30% is an increased rate of $15.410. That means that the price of gas should be returned to the price of October of the month, I'm talking about households, they're the most endangered. In Serbia, there are 220,000 that heat up on gas. That means about a million citizens are heating up on gas. Do you know what it's like to say, """"""""""" '"We've got a warm season coming up. Please, you, at least that's how I understood it, as a very reasonable and human woman, to intervene and to define this profit that the Public Enterprise "Srbiagas" defines, that prices return, that they do not have a false profit, which is actually a robbery of citizens. It means "citizens"! Not to mention the price of oil and gasoline. Here I have a European Energy Portal, where prices are seen, there is only one country in Europe where gas and oil are more expensive than the country of Serbia – that is Germany. It's clear to everyone, ma'am, here's the website, I'll give it to you. Which is why oil and gasoline have grown so much. Is it because of that regulation that you've made that all the profits that public enterprises have are directed into the budget, that the budget is being filled, or that all citizens now need to fill the budget had someone or didn't have one? I point out one more thing, and I'd have a lot to say to you, I think, the budget, it's passed the Regional Development Act, or statistical regions. Will the budget increase by these, according to our New Serbia estimates, new few hundred, perhaps several thousand people who will be employed by various agencies? As the agencies work, your answer is from the minister, where you have an Energy Agency, which is not advertised, and the top theme in the Assembly is, at least as far as New Serbia is concerned, for two months – the price of gas. Whether these agencies are actually independent bodies or they are agencies of a type – calls the finance minister: raise the price of citizens, rob citizens, we need money in the budget! That's how I figured it out. Here is a sentence from the last paragraph in response to the Minister – in order to ensure the safe supply of tariff customers in the Republic of Serbia with natural gas, it is necessary to increase the approved income of an energy entity through the correction element in order to compensate for the losses caused by increased costs of natural gas purchase in real terms, in accordance with the methodology for determining the tariff elements for the calculation of natural gas prices. I just told you that the price of natural gas has been halved. This, so little, incomprehensiblely speaking, I want to translate to the citizens. You've got a new 30-percent gas collection waiting for you! Is it possible, in this economic crisis, to do such a thing with the citizens and still be bold in the congregation and answer? Are these data available to you and am I telling the truth? That's what I'm saying because of the director of the Public Enterprise who was here the other day, told me I had no idea. It is my job to represent the citizens, to fight for their rights, for their existence. My wish was to be a folk MP, therefore, I am obliged to suffer insults, but they are not obliged to suffer insults from Serbian citizens. I personally expect you, as finance ministers, to answer these questions that I have asked you, and I have said in advance well-intentioned, consulting with economic experts, that this law on the budgetary system is relatively good. Maybe some amendments need to be adopted to make it even better, but just the written text of this law doesn't mean life. Life means bills that citizens get. The other day, I said... (President: I thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24000	Thank you. Time's up. The word has a folk MP, Mr Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24001	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Madam Minister, these four laws on the agenda today are not too close to each other to be united and we are not clear why the ruling coalition has proposed to discuss amendments to the Labour Act and, let's say, this law on the budgetary system or the loan for Serbia's roads. It is necessary to consider real laws in a very short time, which, you will admit, is not quite as simple, and certainly it will not be as high-quality as such laws deserve to be paid attention. The law on the budgetary system as one of the most important laws planning revenues and expenditures in the Republic of Serbia, on which the full budget is being spent, defines budgetary and out-of- budget users, their revenues, how they are spent, indirect users, etc. It must be admitted that this law is quite compact and has many provisions. However, there are many illogicalities that we have tried to correct through the amendments. One of the illogicalities is that the Ministry, as a proposer of this law, has provided for all budgetary users who violate the Budgetary System Act, to have certain sanctions and to be viewed as being in a reduction of transfers, either in other penalties, but therefore there is no sanctions for the Ministry and the Government if they violate the Budgetary System Act, for example, in the adoption of a memorandum on the budget, in the adoption of a draft budget, especially in the case of increased costs at individual ministerial positions, there are no sanctions provided for in the law. It has been said here several times that this is the basis of a budget which, the prime minister himself said, is the basic budget, as a basic instrument of the government's economic policy, which will be fought by the government against the global economic crisis and against the recessions that exist in the world, so unfortunately Serbia has also come. Although we had a November month and statements by Serbia's top officials, the president of the Republic, the Minister of Economy and Regional Development, that the crisis will not hit Serbia and that it will bypass us, and that we will even have a chance to take advantage of this crisis as our option for greater investment in our country. Of course, these were populist statements and none of that happened, but the crisis went deep into our economy and into our economy and from the first projected 6.5% of GDP growth at the end of last year we burned to the original 3.5%, then 0%, and then minus 2 percent, which is current, and according to the forecasts of serious economic analysts, this GDP decline may be 5%, and perhaps even 7%, which is not pleasant to anyone in Serbia or even in this room. I'm not talking crazy about this data, but it's simply facts and realities that must be presented and that must be shown to the citizens of Serbia, because there have been a lot of lies and fraud in the previous period that have resulted in a very difficult economic situation in Serbia. The government announced the fight against the crisis through a reduction in public spending and through incentives for businesses. The reduction of public consumption is seen very vividly. It was a whole campaign to rebalance the budget on how this crisis is very welcome to Serbia because it forced the government to reduce its own public spending, reduce the number of employees and see our economy more realistically. Did the government’s promise and fulfillment come true at that time? Of course not. I don't know how much public administration spends less than last year, what are the revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget in the first six months, what are the costs, how much do we owe to different users, what do we owe to budget, what do we do to the budget, by various grounds? According to the data I have, real revenues in June this year are about 3% lower than in the previous period last year, nominally, and expenditure is about 4% higher, which is also true. If the data is presented, then it is clear that there is no reduction in revenue, but an increase in expenditure. Also, it has been promised that the economy will receive incentives through subsidized loans and through burden reduction. Of course that's not true. Business burdens are increasing and higher, so more than 70,000 businesses in Serbia are in a blockade, and according to the National Employment Service, more than 80,000 people are out of work. Indeed, I find it rather likable to expose some colleagues from the ruling coalition who say the government is struggling sharply against reducing the number of employees by amending the Labour Act and allowing employers to send people on paid leave for over 45 days. Didn't we have a promise that there would be 200,000 new jobs in Serbia, that Serbia would advance and that there would be better conditions for living in Serbia? Of course, it's all pre-election promises and there's nothing out of it, and the reality is that we have an increase in the price of services in all sectors. The increase in gas prices is 60%, phones over 100 percent, utility prices are higher than 50% and of course we have strikes everywhere in Serbia, like those in Lapovo, like those in Nis. The social situation is becoming more difficult and more difficult, so much more serious government measures are needed to overcome the difficult social situation in Serbia, especially in the autumn, as painlessly as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24002	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mr. Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24003	We continue the story of the law on the budgetary system, the backbones of an economic and financial system of a state, and we talk about the bill itself, the lack of this law and the suggestions in which the SRS considers it necessary to complete, upgrade and perfect this law. I've already mentioned basic remarks. What's important is to point out, I haven't had time, I'm using this time now, to point out, and this is how budget inspection is set up in a legal sense, it could satisfy the needs of control, but we're witnessing that in practical life we have political volunteerism, the will of politicians in determining who needs to be controlled, when all the records, negative records, negative controls are placed in the drawer and left without sanctions. If the government continues with the way it has done so far, we have thousands of such examples, we pointed to them, we talked about them, unfortunately, none of them are corrected. We are afraid that such a practice of political volunteerism, the will of political structures will continue. As for criminal provisions, law enforcement sanctions, I also have huge objections, on several occasions I will show and point out what is the disproportionateity of the sanctions against the act done. If a minister implements a non-intentional transfer of funds and gets caught in the part, the budget inspection will exercise control, an application will be filed, fined from 5,000 to 50,000 dinars. On the other hand, if a similar act is done by the director of a private enterprise, the fine is threatened and will be fined up to 100,000 to 3,000,000 dinars. Also, if the government or minister fails to deliver the final bill within the deadlines scheduled, they will be fined up to 50,000, and the private firm will be fined up to 3,000,000 dinars. A huge disproportionate to the work done and the adverse dangers both in one case and in another. What we need to worry about is the non-cooperation of very important state bodies, the Ministry of Finance, the Government and the NBS. The government's biggest critic is after the opposition parties, the governor of the NBS. Here I will read his statement from Saturday, where the "Pres" says the Serbian government is making moves that threaten to receive a second tranche of credit from the IMF. He explains that in the event of a failure of negotiations with the IMF, not only will we not get an additional 700m euros for foreign exchange reserves, but we will not get $200m from the World Bank and not 50m euros from the EU for budget support. What does the IMF ask of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent financial institutions of the Republic of Serbia? It seeks to stop borrowing abroad, reduce public spending, increase exports, reduce imports, reduce private persons' debt abroad, strengthen fiscal policy, reduce deficits in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and also deficits in the province's budgets, in cities' budgets, etc. and restrictive budgetary policy – almost none of what the IMF is asking the current government to remove. What was done in terms of reducing public consumption? These are marginal measures that do not give effect. The only measure advocated by the IMF, which relates to the reduction in imports, can be said that the government is doing so. It does not because it makes measures of economic and financial policy, but does it in an indirect way. Import lobbys, due to the abundance of goods on the domestic market, but still not of domestic character, but of sides, are not able to perform a particular trade and therefore stop imports. Do we have any measures of export character? Are we stimulating exporters with certain measures? Do we have a credit policy to improve exports? We don't! Do we have a stop to foreign borrowing? We don't! Here, we consider some of the laws every week – either the law on loans or the law on the confirmation and guaranteeing of certain credit obligations, and thus from day to day of our debt-based obligation are increasing and greater. We entered the 2009 budget with a 1.5% deficit projection, and now we have a situation, which is what the official representatives of financial institutions tell us is about 4.5% -- I was in one parliamentary issue, two months ago, telling us that it cannot be below 6%. We will most likely have budget rebalances within a month of the agreement with the IMF, if they approve 4.5% of us, with certain new conditions that will set us up, so at the end of the year we will certainly have, based on monetary and economic and financial indicators in production, services, in transport, by my estimate, cannot end below 6%. What's going on with the gross social product? The official government assures us that it is moving at 3.5% and boasts that this is significant in relation to the EU, which has 4.5%. However, if we do an analysis by individual independent institutions, prominent economic experts, then we come up with data that we practically have a reduction in the instructions relating to the gross social product – a decline in industrial production of 18.1%. The employers' association says it's over 25% now. It means that someone is now getting a haircut, not an employer's union, because they have more competent data and they're far better at monitoring the situation and they're worried about the situation. Furthermore, we have a 35% reduction in imports, a 30% reduction in trade traffic, a 12% reduction in services, a 27% reduction in the construction sector, etc., it cannot ultimately give a 3.5% reduction in gross social product, but it must be, far, far beyond that. At a scientific meeting recently held at Megatrend University, the assessment of independent economic experts is that the gross social product will decrease by about 10% this year. That should concern the current government and all of us together. Also, what we need to worry about is the area of banking and the policy run by banking houses, banking institutions. In the last six months, businesses have placed 450m euros, and in securities of value or in the accounts of the National Bank's Treasury, they have invested 750m euros, or since the start of the 120 billion dinar crisis in securities of value and cash registers of the Treasury around 50, which means about 180m euros or two billion euros -- that should concern us. There's a collapse in the economy, huge indifference. The banks are liquid right now, but they don't want to invest in the economy. Why? It is much easier to de-caminate, with interest rates of 12, 13, 14%, i.e. from the NBS, or from the state of Serbia, than to invest in non-performable enterprises or areas that currently, due to the global economic crisis, internal crisis and huge internal problems, cannot place their product and achieve a certain profit from which interest can be served, which is currently over 25% for the economy. We're not talking about the public, because these are the interest rates we need to worry about. What we must point to is the recent statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia at a meeting in the UN, which referred to the effects of the global economic crisis on the economy and society, where he said among other things -- that the margins in Serbia are up to seven times higher than in the countries of origin. This clearly speaks of the authority of the prime minister and the competence of financial institutions, and of the inadequacy, lack of control and lack of respect for economic flows. The opposition here in Parliament, and in particular the SRS, pointed to these problems – huge interest and huge margins. What's done? Nothing! Even the governor of the NB, here from the same coalition group, pointed out and presented certain things to you in public. He's competent, he's responsible here and he has to fix it. He didn't have the courage to say it and point it out. However, there is no courage in the government. This government does not run an adequate financial policy and this should concern us, all together, and especially the people who pay such high interest and high margins. At this point, we have about 61,000 blocked companies, and that's more than 50% of the companies that work. What did the government do to unblock these companies? Nothing! Also these indicators, and you boasted about the means of information, among other things, at the meetings of the Assembly, that through the subsidized loans you would help the economy. Here is the data - 450,000 euros total, and these are short-term funds. All three projects have been approved, long-term investment. Twenty or 22m euros are long-term loans. These are all short-term loans. That doesn't help, you need to know that. The Ministry of Finance is responsible here. The Treasury doesn't have a program! The government doesn't have a program! We have sought and insisted on the assembly speaker – the government must come out with a national strategy to mitigate the negative effects of the global crisis, but also a domestic crisis that has resulted in negative flows and economic and financial impacts in the country. Is that what you went out with? You're not! Do you have a competent policy to prevent negative economic and financial flows? You don't! There's nothing to talk about! This government has to go!- I'm sorry. The fall needs to worry us all, especially you. You've got a month or two until September, and then you see what you're going to do and how you're going to do it. Prepare, because you haven't prepared a national strategy. All the normal countries of the world have prepared a national strategy, have a programme of measures and adhere to this programme of measures. Your program of measures and three activities, three programmes of measures to prevent negative flows have gone into recovery. We lost time, we didn't get results, because if we had the results, you'd be generously boasting, coming out here and in the media talking about positive things and positive flows that come out of your measure. We don't have those measures. Get ready, otherwise the people will go out into the streets. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24004	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go, Mr Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SNS, this bill on the budgetary system is of paramount importance, it is also of paramount importance to all citizens of Serbia. The fact is that it is one of the most significant system laws, a law governing the area of public finances, which regulates the budget system and, as one of my colleagues said, regulates planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget. With a number of good things we can find in this law, it seems to me that the basic motive for the adoption of this law at the moment is the path-position, unfortunately, in which the Serbian economy is today. The fact is, because of the poor economic policy that's been led here since 2000, we've come to a situation where the public sector, primarily funding from consumption, and today we're not in a position to maintain that level of consumption, so it's inevitable that we have a decrease in revenue in the budget. The basic problem of the Serbian economy today is the problem of supplying goods. We have a very bad economy, small and not competitive that can't compete with a foreign offer, on the one hand. The fact is that we have the absence of structural reforms and that there is a criminalized privatisation process behind us that has destroyed many companies, as one of the essential reasons for such bad supply of goods. On the other hand, we have big problems with imports. The fact is that we can't finance this much imports, as we could in the previous period, that we obviously lack a foreign exchange inflow, that the foreign exchange inflow significantly affects the course of the dinar and threatens to collapse the Serbian economy. A soap bar called the Serbian economy, which was based on foreign borrowing, for sale of enterprises, is now apparently firing. We have an extremely bad situation in the economy, an alarming situation in the economy, and our government, unfortunately, unlike other governments in the world, is making moves that don't lead to recovery. The whole world today encourages consumption, encourages investment, strives to reduce interest rates, revive the financial sector, and our government continues with this failed economic policy, a policy of suffocating production and economy, a policy which, unlike the world, goes towards reducing consumption. Our government is trying to lock us in four walls, empty our wallets through inflation, through pay cuts, through an increase in utility prices, and put a paw on everything that's left and the rest of budget revenues. And that is the basic reason why today we have this bill on the budget system, regardless of all the improvements this law has compared to the previous one. The Budgetary System Act primarily aims to introduce full control over fiscal revenues through enhanced discipline, through internal audit, through budgetary inspection, this is what is good in this law and what welcomes SNS Tomislav Nikolic, but it also aims to protect the Republic's cash register from collapse, primarily by regulating relations between different levels of government and in favour of the Republic and the Republic's cash registers. Serbian Progressive Party Tomislav Nikolic has submitted a series of amendments to the text of this law, I think there are 40. I, what bothers us the most, would single out the part relating to the suspension of funds passed on to other levels of government, and we also have a lot of objections in the work relating to the conversion of apropriety, the attitude towards the State Auditory Institution in this law is not adequate, according to us, a mechanism that would somehow control new employment in state institutions, there was something in the previous law. I would say that the deadlines and conditions of payment from the budget are not sufficiently defined, that this is quite scarcely done, the execution of the payment order, all of this is left to ministers, which is one of the major problems of the Serbian economy today. It's a path that leads to corruption and it's a problem that you had to deal with more seriously in this text of the law. As far as the law itself is concerned, it is obvious that the recession and economic depression of the economy, which we all expect in the fall, prepares all of us for one hot, not only political, but also economic hot autumn, that we are obviously expected to fall in budget revenues, the bankruptcy of a large number of enterprises, because with such minimal growth, all those companies whose liquidity is on the edge will go bankrupt. Loss of jobs, poverty and poverty, that's what no doubt awaits us... (President: Mr Anticu, the time foreseen for the work of your parliamentary group has expired. I'm sorry, then, but, ten minutes... (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the scene: Not true, ten minutes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24006	Five minutes and 30 seconds. The word has been made by MP Arsen Đuric. The remaining time for the DSS parliamentary group is 18 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24007	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for who knows which way the ruling majority destroys the dignity of this house by uniting the debate on laws that literally have nothing to do with each other. These are all important laws and by uniting the debates with the MPs is the denied opportunity to discuss in a good and valid way the proposed legislative solutions, but you are not worth talking about, so I am not wasting this little time I have, based on the draft law on the budget system. When it comes to the draft law on the budgetary system, it is a framework for budget planning and implementation. In light of this law, the aim of the new law is to further improve the budget system, especially in the part of planning, preparation, adoption and control of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budget of local self-government. It is true that the proposed law is comprehensive in a more precise and appropriate way to define deadlines and commitments in budget planning. What's good is that agencies and various other bodies whose founder of the Republic are finally involved in the consolidated account of the Treasury and that for the first time in the law there is the term 'vanbudgget funds'. I sincerely hope that the budgetary inspection will also control their work, although it is not clearly defined in the law, but we have proposed it by amendment. It is a good thing there is a obligation to develop medium-term public investment plans. However, the existing Budget System Law had defined deadlines and obligations but you did not respect them. On several occasions last year, there is no respected deadline within which the government was due to bring the budget, within which it was due to deliver the National Assembly, and even when the budget rebalances were adopted, a memorandum containing the amount of transfer funds to local self-government. I'm not sure if local self-government at this point knows what the transfer funds are available to them during 2009. Namely, these transfer funds have been reduced 40% in general and thus municipalities in Serbia have been brought into an extremely difficult position, the realization of some of the already-started investment and development projects, which were planned this year, will not be realised. The government has transferred most of the burden of this economic crisis to local self-governments in an extremely difficult position, especially when considering that in many municipalities in Serbia, these transfer funds account for more than 50% of the total budget of these municipalities. When it comes to budget planning, that's where you didn't celebrate. When we adopted the 2009 budget at the end of the previous year, I debated and criticised it, I talked about the budget being unrealistically planned, and in particular the unreal planned revenue of the budget. It was clear to everyone in Serbia at the time, except for our government, that there was an economic crisis and that it would be difficult to fill the budget, and the minister then smiled and didn't believe the story and what we talked about. We planned to increase the revenue of the corporate tax budget, by 25% you increased those revenues, and it was clear to everyone that there would be no company, that there would be no increase. You planned it to have one budget rebalance after a few months, and it is quite clear that we will have a new budget rebalance in the fall. Also, this budget filling is not carried out with a planned dynamic and due to an unreasonable government decision on unilateral implementation of the SAA, reducing budget revenues by several hundredm euros. You have later resorted to budgeting by increasing excise duties on various goods of broad consumption and thus burdening the wide range of population, so today in Serbia we pay the most expensive fuel in the environment, and among the most expensive in Europe to replace the missing funds in the budget, because you have made some of your wrong moves and wrong decisions. The DSS parliamentary group has submitted a series of amendments that will try to correct the proposed text of the bill, and I think these amendments have been written highly constructively and in the spirit of correcting the proposed text. I sincerely hope that the Government will accept some of these amendments during the debate in particular and thus correct the proposed text of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24008	Thank you. Mr. Ilic, I've received your application as an authorised representative. I'd like to ask you that after the speakers have been reported, there are more, in the end, all 20 minutes, of course, at your disposal. It's okay. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, looking back on both your discussion and the discussion of some of my predecessors in today's debate my story and conversation with you, in a way, I'd like to start with one question. You were a little unconvincing and I'm asking you, do you really believe this law will be defined as it is, as you said, by modern financial management? Personally, I don't think they will, but not because of what the law is bad and unarranged, but because of the fact that there is no political will and political awareness that public finances, the state's budgets are not modern, but domestic, rational and appropriate times and economic opportunities in which this country is located. On the one hand, you say that on the agenda of the proposed laws, this law is the most important. That's where we can agree with you. The law on the budgetary system and its content and quality really promotes or shows how responsible one authority is and how prepared it is to deal with its public revenues in a safe way, i.e. public expenditures. In that sense, by insisting on the importance of this law, you could ask and insist that we conduct the debate on this law in particular, rather than putting it in a basket with the laws, as some of the previous colleagues have already said, who do not have any touch points with all these issues, that is, with all that the law on the budgetary system implies. Once we adopt this law, its application in practice will be the same as the way and procedure of its adoption, adoption or discussion about it. I've listened to most of my fellow MPs today. It seems to me that everyone has failed to look back at something that you put high on the scale of the reasoning of this law. You, and I have said several times, that you should be given a medal for the courage to avoid in your legal proposals to call on the EU, this time not in that direction, have again made a step. You are the first minister in the government to be properly packed and in an indirect way defined and stamped the illegal work of regulatory bodies in Serbia, i.e. agencies, commissions and others, I repeat, regulatory bodies. On courage, you really need to be honest, on the one hand. On the other hand, for us in the SRS, it's a great satisfaction, because through what you've put into account, and I'll read later, it really gives us the right to all our accusations and criticisms addressed to the work of agencies, commissions, regulatory bodies and all those who, as you said here, have wasted budget funds irrationally. What we are discussing now is the fact that we believe that the agency and those regulatory bodies should be abolished, and you think that you will solve the problem of wastefulness and financial bahanalia in these regulatory bodies by defining them as direct or indirect beneficiaries of the budget, i.e. the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. We don't think you'll be able to do that. We believe that the problem of financial operations with public funds in this country was not a problem because of the absence of legal regulation. You had two laws on both the budget system and on public revenues and public expenditures, now you've integrated them into one law. Indeed, if there were will and determinations that domestically available funds were available to the Republic of Serbia's budget and at all other levels, from municipalities, provinces to the Republic, everything would be very different in financial and economic terms. This, referring to the law, saying it is modern, that it is modern, may be so in some parts, but it is truly unspeakable to the end and it will not provide all this that you insist on today and today you convince Serbia with this law will get. Here you also said that changes are necessary in order to create conditions for the use of EU development assistance and Serbia's obligation to form appropriate own institutions for managing EU funds, i.e. a decentralised system of EU funds management. Who guarantees us that because of the political awareness and profile of the government in Serbia and these funds and these funds, the same thing that has happened with the funds within the agencies, within the commissions and other regulatory bodies, and even with direct beneficiaries of the budget. We talked and talked about it several times, we think it's good to define the programming budgets, but we also witness that the space for manipulation and irrational spending has also been for those users of the budgets who have shown their budgets through the programming budgets. It's nice that you say what the budget is, what it represents, how real estimates are to be made, real budget projections, but here's my question for you -- does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have rights, I'll be free to say, to share such lessons in Serbia? We almost met in this congregation and talked. Then in my discussion, I announced the possibility of a new budget rebalance. That's when you told the gesticulation that none of it had anything to do with it. From what we hear, the government is preparing budget rebalances for September of the month. He's a necessity and he's an inevitability. When we talk about the real projections that this law obliges us to, here, on today's agenda, the next law that we will consider is the bill on amendments to the Republic's administrative taxis. Now, look, Madam Minister, how much those who promote this law have a sense of projection, or realistic assessment of what and how to do. In Article 16 of that same law, heading 145 says that the number eight thousand is replaced by a thousand, but the number 80,000 with 16 thousand. All the values you have here with amendments and additions to the law are reduced by at least 50%. I understand the harmonisation of the law, but the reduction in figures in this amount speaks and points to missed projections in the adoption of republican administrative taxis in January. And that's when we said that the fees for certain tariff numbers are really big. There was no hearing about it. Six or seven months after all of this, we come to the Assembly and discuss the fact that, through the changes, it is proposed to replace 80,000 with 60, 70% smaller amounts. These are bad projections and bad assumptions. Bad projections can't be blamed for any administrative, say, act, law or form. No, it's just those who are projecting the budget, which are projecting the revenue side, or those who are designing the spending side. We have a problem with this image being repainted to local self-government. Do you really expect such examples to be taught in local self-government budgets to be properly designed? It's not a legal issue, it's a problem of the consciousness of those who deal with it. The tasks of budget projections, respect for deadlines that have existed so far, but are not respected, amendments to the law will not change anything. You cannot expect a real budget projection at the level of local self-government that provides the congregation's majority from assembly to assembly. But you don't have the mechanisms to deal with it, to deal with it and once, after nine years of constant promotion of European values, get in the way. You have a case to make a decision on a local taxi as a source and budget income, but because of the efficiency of charging the same business, you trust the local self-government company, and then the public company collects that income and that income does not give the local self-government budget – and you complain, and you complain, seek protection and you do not have protection against the state to stop such non-sensions. We can talk as much as you want about nice and good law. The law will not essentially solve any problems, although it would be good if one of them were resolved in Serbia. Today we are talking about the modern management of finance in a state that has not brought the final bill to the MEPs for eight years, in a country that has done everything in its power that the Auditory Institution does not work. I want to believe that you intend to put it into operation, but practice and life in Serbia really do show something else. Now I'm asking, Madam Minister, since you've come to terms with all these problems from agencies to regulatory bodies, how are you going to build mechanisms to call on the responsibility of those who, let me put it simply, have ruined the money? Are there mechanisms? There is no political will to deal with it, we can deal with it as much as you want European and modern and affirmative laws to adopt, not a problem of paperwork. Many of the laws adopted by this and previous stimuli have not found adequate application in practice. That's the fundamental problem of this country. That's why the government has to change, first power, then the laws. How rationally to discuss the budget of the Republic of Serbia in which 36% of the total expenditure on pension funds is spent, and only a year earlier, it was only a fifth, or 25%? How do you realistically project the budget when the state enters the 2009 budget projection, planning to make the budget deficit 75%, and six months later, based on economic indicators of income and, unfortunately, catastrophic by structure, on the divisive side, we can assume by the end of the year that the deficit will be nearly 150 billion dinars, and you boast in the success of the negotiations with the IMF based on the 75 billion budget deficit? One is our political relationship and attitude towards this arrangement with the IMF, but what if, however, because of this unrealistic assessment and projection of the budget and that negotiation of yours, whatever those funds are, they might feel in Serbia, if the job fails? That's why we find it a little ungrateful at one, I would say, a very abstract way to promote this law. I believe that you, from the point of view of the profession, are interested in the same, that you will, and that you want to present it in the best light. I'm not even going to challenge your intentions from this chair, but, Madam Minister, the government you're sitting in, the environment you're sitting in really doesn't have a political profile, ambition and the will to improve the budgetary system of this country and all the other segments of this economic and social environment. And that's why this law, like all the other laws that this council brings, and this assembly adopts, will remain just a dead letter on paper. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24010	Thank you, Mr. Stevanović. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic. Thirteen minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24011	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The current Labour Act also foresees that in the event of a termination of work, which occurs without guilt, the employer may and may have the right to pay the employee a paid leave of 45 days and for that time, of which 45 days, the employee will receive a salary of 60% of the minimum personal income, i.e. the income that the employee has made in the previous three months that must not be less than the minimum wage. Today we have before us a draft law supplementing the Labour Act, and this supplement applies only to two things – the possibility of going on paid leave exists in case of a reduction in the volume of work and other changes, concerns that this paid leave can be achieved for more than 45 days, but the bill promoter does not say what is the upper limit and how much is above 45 days. It's just that it's a little weird, given that the government, as a bill promoter, needs to bring some order into this system and should provide jobs, at least that's how it was supposed to be to provide 200,000 new jobs, and reduce unemployment by 11.9%. Now, there's obviously a problem with that, which isn't enough work that she hasn't provided and doesn't have a good enough framework, which she hasn't provided, so people can work and earn their own income. It is obvious that those people who, and those political parties who sat in the government in the 1990s, are sitting still today, and it is obvious that Serbia is still going in the direction of the 1990s. This law before us shows it, the Information Act shows it. So the 1990s in Serbia seem to be coming back, thanks to the incompetent government. I want to say one more thing. The fact is, the government has to ensure that the state works. This government of course doesn't provide that. She won't mind employers, why should they be resented, wouldn't mind the workers, wouldn't mind anyone, and that's why she can't run this country. It must edit the framework for the state to function, and the framework can be arranged by having social dialogue between employers, state and workers. Obviously, he does not exist today, and it is clear that the government bears the greatest share of responsibility for this. To remind you, this is the government that says for itself, according to Prime Minister Cvetkovic, in celebrating the existence of a year of this government, that this government has significantly improved Serbia's image in the world. Serbia has worked from 2002 to 2007, and has been working to reduce poverty. It reduced poverty from 14% to 6.6% to be very precise, I'm talking about living people who have names, last names and who have their face and their torment, it reduced that number of poor people from a million to slightly less than half a million. The government did not stop the trend, but rather the number of unemployed and the number of poor among them grew, so that with everything this government has provided, which is a huge inflation, which is a huge collection, which is the unemployment of people, the government certainly could never fix the image of Serbia, but could only spoil it. In addition to what I'm saying, what Minister Ljajic said, which is not here today, he said well enough, that all that local self-government is fighting to stay is folk cuisine. This shows how good the government's image is and how much that government with that image ruined Serbia, ruined an industrial production that fell by 22%, ruined agriculture. She ruined everything she got her hands on and, unfortunately, owed Serbia to these measures, that our grandchildren had to pay off the loans. Our debt is now at GDP level, by the end of the year, it will be 27.5 billion euros in figures. Hosts and citizens who are poor don't owe themselves, but that's why the government, and how it owes, because she totally knows. She buys time, she won't pay back those debts and is completely uninterested in how Serbia will come out of all this. She has no strength, no competence, no moral authority to lead this country. This is why the government created on folk wisdom, that patriotism is not poured into the tractor, today has brought Serbia and people in Serbia, Serbian citizens, to pay the most expensive gas in the region, that this price of 103.71 dinar, how much we pay for a liter of gasoline, is actually 60% burdened with various excise duties that the state covers inability to make adequate decisions and to deal with the crisis. The government has completely nice and cleverly shifted the burden of the crisis to the citizens. Here, the minister doesn't need to listen to all this, because she knows it all and, in this way, the government simply makes laws like this, laws in the '90s. It's "no smell, no smell", we're not gonna blame anyone, we're not gonna move anything. Everything will look like we're doing for each other, the other, the third, in fact, the government is only working on its own benefit. No way, until this government leaves with actors from the political scene in the '90s, anything will be better in Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24012	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24013	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here we are today in a united debate of four points of the agenda, and we have before us a bill that the Serbian government has decided to change certain republican administrative fees. Some will shrink, while others will increase. What should be pointed out in the amendments to this law is the reduction of the republican administrative fees by 50%, in the case of intellectual property protection, when the applicant is a natural person. I think the government should have considered, however, when making such a decision, more specifically, that this reduction does not only apply to natural persons, but also to enable legal persons to benefit from such a reduction. Because if it is constantly said that small and medium-sized enterprises are the ones whose business needs to be improved, because such enterprises should be the main operators of business activity, in order to create new jobs, more specifically, in these conditions of the economic crisis, preserve existing jobs, then they should also, in some ways, come into contact and, I repeat, give them certain privileges. Such a reduction in the Republic administrative fees for the application for the recognition of patents, small patents, for the protection of topography, integrated car, for the recognition of design rights, for the recognition of stamps, collective stamps, or guarantees, for the registration of designations of origin, or geographical indications, then, for certificates, for certificates, derived from the register and assurances of data relating to intellectual property, which is subject to official records and all other changes to this proposal of the law, and relating to the protection of intellectual property rights, will apply only when it comes to entrepreneurs, store owners, and not the owners of the company. Given the fact that in Serbia intellectual property rights are quite compromised, a solution to such a problem should be approached with much more seriousness. Given that the rule of law is not working, we are all witnesses together that piracy is booming in all fields. However, this problem is not only facing Serbia, but this is a much wider problem. I will quote the conclusion from a seminar held in the Chamber of Commerce in Serbia in early June this year: ''The EU Customs Authorities seized 70 million items last year only, which were forged, and the total turnover is estimated to cost an estimated 200 billion euros in counterfeit goods. These are just some of the indicators of economic importance of intellectual property rights, and to the dangers faced by consumers, it is best to suggest that more than 60% of the pharmaceutical products sold online have been counterfeited, which poses a huge risk to citizens' health. This is why intellectual property protection is necessary for the acquisition and financing of innovation and creativity, leading to economic, cultural and social progress. It promotes the production, dissemination of knowledge and wide range of quality products and services, and gives consumers a guarantee of quality and origin of goods. "As far as Serbia is concerned, it has been said that the right to intellectual property is the basis for free movement of goods and cultural goods, whose abuse is causing great damage, thus protecting intellectual property is one of the priorities. The most important data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in this field will be expressed through activities, partnerships with state authorities in the adoption of a national strategy in the field of intellectual property rights, then education of small and medium-sized enterprises managers and fostering innovation and the development of new technologies. It is further noted that small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia can become an extraordinary source of innovation, but provided that the state helps them solve financial problems. The EU has decided to reduce fees for registration of the European brand to small and medium-sized companies, so this model should also be one of the methods Serbia should apply to the development of innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises. I must admit that I am very surprised that when the Serbian government amends this law, it does not respect the EU's recommendation to reflect the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, but only natural persons. It is usually what the EU commands for the Serbian democratic authority of God's command, so this is a little surprise. Otherwise, according to the Republic Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship, Serbia is positioning itself very poorly on patenting, partly due to small investments in research and development, and in part because of the enormous costs for international protection ranging from 14m to 50,000 euros and more. Serbia, all indicators prove this, is not investing enough in innovation, as the company's expenditure on research and development is low. Also, the link between education, research institutes and the commercial sectors is very weak. In the end, I want to say that it is clear that the reduction of any taxis behind it pulls a reduction in revenue in the budget and that this could be the answer, which is why the tax on protection of intellectual property rights is reduced by 50% only by physical and not legal persons. In itself, there is also a question of how these tax cuts will be compensated, because we are well aware of how much the problem is the lack of money in the budget. However, it is high time that this government, which has destroyed Serbia's economy during the privatisation process in recent years, should understand that it is beginning to do something in the interest of the businessmen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24014	Thank you. Let me give you a heads-up. Since we have three other MPs on the list who have applied for the discussion at this point and Mr Velimir Ilic's application as an authorised representative, I think we will be working today, or we will end this without a break and I expect that it will be in the next 40 minutes, how much time it is left for the parliamentary groups and the authorised representative. The word is Mr Miroslav Petkovic. The time remaining for the DSS Parliamentary Group is six minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24015	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, it is truly regrettable that today we are participating in this theatre, given that the ruling majority's MPs have united the agenda points that are completely incompatible and I would really like to see any connection between the law on the budgetary system with the roads and with the labour law. The finance minister, unfortunately, is not present, so I will participate in the theatre by trying to act as if Mrs Dragutinovic were present and to address her, so I hope she will be able to hear it somewhere, and I will be free to deliver my discussion in writing to her. Minister Dragutinovic said the law on the budget system is very important and of course we agree. It's one of our favorite laws. I remind you how many DSS deputies asked questions to Mrs Dragutinovic – where the budget was when he was more than a month late. This bill introduces a newspaper, brings some new solutions, but we will try to conduct some of its repairs in today's debate, and I am sure, if it is well-willed, that the DSS amendments will be accepted in a quality way that corrects the text of the law. This law provides that a minister, or person who can invest in a consolidated account of the Republic's Treasury in a domestic or foreign financial market of money or capital, can invest in a consolidated account. Of course it is good and money should be invested, but the least we can expect as MPs in Parliament is to be informed about it. When the minister invests her funds in private accounts, she of course does not have to inform the National Assembly, but when the money is invested in certain funds, in certain banks, I think MPs should be informed about it. I'm sure the Minister will accept that. We have also responded to the budget calendar which has been broken, to remind you, countless times in the current term of Minister Dragutinovic. It's something that's inadmissible. The budget calendar is clearly established and the deadlines and dates for certain operations to be carried out, when the procedures are to be completed and when the draft budget is to come to parliament, but it is obvious that it was one of the favorite members, because it has really broken it several times. This is, above all, important also because of the adoption of the budget of local self-government, because I remind you that many local self-governments simply were unable to bring their budgets because they were waiting for the adoption of the budget at the republican level. If the local self-government does not adopt the budget within the scheduled time limit, it will be punished by depriving the transfer funds. There is no minister's responsibility in this law if he violates the provisions of this law. I don't think it's necessary to stress specifically how much a city means when the transfer funds are reduced by about 200 million. We in Cacak have this week a session where we will adopt budget rebalances, precisely because this government has decided to deprive the transfer funds and thus for a certain amount of funds, a very large amount of money, disables some of the projects that we have planned in our local self-government. This law directly penetrates Article 44 in the power and jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as it predicts that the amending budget proposal must be within the maximum deficit and that the surplus cannot be used to increase expenditure. That's right, but then let the government bring the budget to its session, let them hold a press conference, tell us what the budget is, what the deficit is, and then know what it's doing, and then the rebalancing by that logic could also be adopted at the government's phone session. There is no responsibility for certain deadlines when the government is to inform both the National Assembly and the local authorities of self-government should report their parliaments within certain deadlines to suspend the budget. We predicted it was a seven-day deadline. We think it's quite an appropriate deadline for everyone to be familiar with certain changes if these funds are suspended. What's certainly one of the hits of this law is Article 103. A bill of law, where I don't see a finance minister. This member regulates violations and absolutely does not put the responsibility of the finance minister in breach of the budget system law, or if it violates certain deadlines. And last time I thought of it as adopting the budget, and now I think that if these deadlines are broken, the finance minister should resign. We have submitted an amendment to this article and we hope it will be accepted, because we are really trying to help ministers do this job in a valid and quality way because it is about the money available to Serbian citizens. A colleague of the chair, you are also a lawyer, read Article 105, which reads: 'If the provisions of other laws, or regulations, are contrary to this law, the provisions of this law shall apply. Let's get the other laws in line with this law, we can't act like one. It's inadmissible, it's against the constitution, that this law be some roof, organic law, we can call it whatever we want, that the provisions of the other laws don't apply if something else is written in this law. Finally, this law clearly introduces new powers for both the government and the minister, without answering questions at all if they are asked about the responsibility of both the government and the finance minister. Gentlemen of the Government, be assured that we will regularly remind you of the budget deadlines, when the draft budget is due to come to Parliament and when it is to be discussed, and when the draft budget is delayed this year and it comes to the procedure after the deadline, you will not be angry when we again seek the resignation of the finance minister. Let's start with one concrete question, given that September is approaching, two and a half months ago we pointed to this in the budget rebalance, I really want to know when there's going to be a new budget rebalance of the Republic of Serbia? And of course, in addition to this rebalancing, we expect you to bring a new memorandum, because it is a legal obligation under this law, and the laws are passed to apply and to be respected, not to be praised by the President of the Assembly with the number of laws adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24016	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24017	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to sublime in the principle debate an argument which, through the draft bill on the budgetary system and the draft law on the granting of guarantees from the Republic of Serbia in favour of, this time, the "Marfin Bank" and, by the authority of the Public Enterprise, would explain, above all, to citizens what a fundamentally invisible economic situation the state of Serbia is at this moment and, I would only say, is the result of a continued policy that has been led almost a decade ago. I will have to start from what we could hear from Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, about how neither development nor reform has been stopped, about how Serbia has become a stable democratic country, the government that has responded to all the challenges adequately, about how the country's financial economic system is preserved and how the government has responded in due time to the effects of the crisis, that we have not had mass bankruptcy of businesses and banks, or mass layoffs of workers. That this statement was made on April 1st, and that I understand, but it did not, but was given on July 9th when the report on the year of work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was presented. So, these illustrative and unrealistic government projections for this year, above all about the initial GDP growth of 3.5%, and then the zero growth rate, which was discussed at the Kopalnik consultation, to finally make a minus 2% projection with the IMF, but also at the time of its adoption through budget rebalancing, which this assembly adopted at the end of April, is clearly unreal, because the previous economic indicators indicated that the GDP decline would be at least 6%. The overall irresponsibility of the economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the slow acceptance of reality, if I may say so, is also evident through the avoidance of the transport-related process of building strong, stable infrastructure and restructuring of the entire public sector, as all participants in the mid-day debate pointed out. So these are the processes that, for the ultimate result, should lead to bringing down the greatest monster we have in society, which is corruption and bribes, to some normal standards. However, it is precisely these social phenomena that are constantly growing, and the dynamics of economic activity suffers a high degree of erosion. In such an environment, monopolies could also be created in certain economic activities, but in history individual companies or banks that had a market perspective will go. While there was privatisation income and it was easy to borrow, but it was just an illusion of a more comfortable and better life than it really was. But now that the effects of the transition process are more than thin, and numerous, I would say, financial resources needlessly spent on unproductive purposes, that will certainly be more unfavourable for the global economic crisis on the Serbian economy. So it can be established that both the economy and the population of this country are the victims of a neoliberal economic doctrine, in which it is all left to the market and has just applied such a doctrine under the conditions of weak state institutions, undeveloped legal infrastructure, only set the decisive blow to the domestic economy and facilitated the realization of large capital plans on this market. So, under the board of markets, which in its essence did not actually work in Serbia, the liquidations and those legal entities, interest rates of banks, prices of products in trade chains, real estate prices, etc. It was clear that all these rules of play, I speak in general about the financial sector, and were set up to stimulate corruption, stretching out individual, particular interests in the first place, and those of the national interests, which we of the SRS had often pointed out and talked about, were practically reduced to the bottom. That, among other things, it is evident from numerous protests by dissatisfied workers following failed privatisations. Also, what I would like to point out this opportunity is that the country's growing foreign market borrowing after such a transition period is an indicator of the failed economic policy from which some of its main protagonists in the government of the Republic of Serbia exist today. You could already hear the fact that, compared to 2000, Serbia owed almost three times more in late April of this year. The debt, it is evident, will continue to grow after the stand-by arrangement with the IMF and financial arrangements with other international financial organisations, possibly also some governments. This makes Serbia practically, but certainly enters the high-indebted zone, becoming a permanent addict of financial injections, without any indication, which is the biggest problem, so that the loaned financial resources can be returned at all. And putting a country in this kind of addiction certainly has some political repercussion for it, and it seems to be a little thought or the scope of thinking is such that it is unacceptable. So, the bottom line is, on this case, just buying time, and the future that is already knocking on the door will always be in, but then it can already be late, because with this economic and political position of this country becomes the victims of marketing based on some unrealistic expectations and moves that are precisely in service of such expectations and particular interests. You have two observed studies of prominent American economists Carmen Rajhart and Kenneth Rogof, who have systematised experiences, presented a series of disturbing data regarding all financial crises in recent decades and what is interesting to us is that these analyses show that the crises were followed not by slowing down, but by the decline of gross domestic product. On average, the decline lasts about two years and GDP decreases by more than 9%. During the crisis, there is a huge rise in public debt, which in three years after its outbreak increases by an average of around 86%. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are witnessing that Serbia is going through a classic payment crisis of its own, and this crisis has grown. It's more than obvious, in currency and slowly becomes a debt crisis, and very soon we'll be like a state facing a budget crisis. The problem, however, is that the crisis in Serbia is not only due to external factors, but its depth and duration are much smaller, and the exit from the crisis would be much easier if there were no internal factors. One of the reasons is when the business elite asks for the state to be in charge of continuing the overestimated dinar policy. It actually requires the continuity of economic policy that has been destroying Serbia all these years. The Serbian elite probably knows local political miles, but does not understand the obvious world in which we live. Does anyone really believe the IMF will lend money to Serbia to save owners of over-indebted and re-invested domestic empires? The state, that is clear, today we have little space to affect the ultimate dynamic of the overall situation in which it was found, because the foundations have been built since 2002 and the results are now seen in full glare. Therefore, in order to go some way through recovery, essential laws and laws are needed, as well as laws that will be absolutely applicable in practice. One of the ones we're talking about today is exactly like that, but there's a big fear, as you could hear from the predecessor's exposure, that it's just going to remain a dead letter on paper. It is clear that every day delays cost Serbia more and more. Whether those in charge of this sector in the Serbian government are going to think about fast dinar-depression, or how to preserve foreign reserves, bring down imports and consumption, while removing much of the disparity on the domestic market and, in some ways, starting to rebuild, will show time. The scarce funds obtained from ino-creditors must be clearly invested in infrastructure and energy, not simply saving empires that cannot be saved. We are witnessing that the NBS has already spent hundreds of millions of euros defending a course that ultimately did not defend. And at the worst of times, Serbia has to do what it didn't do even when the money came to it, which is to live off what it earns, and in this particular situation it tries to save and invest. It is clear that this moment is also missing, and the dramatic problems encountered in Serbia's financial system are becoming more difficult and more difficult every day. One of these problems that should be solved by the already mentioned essential laws is, above all, the fact that they relate to, I would say, well, both the explosive and irresponsible growth of private borrowing, as well as the fact that businesses and citizens are in debt in foreign exchange and that they are therefore exposed to a huge exchange risk. The system was also sustainable only while the dinar course rested on the sale of state property and on ino-loaning. However, this global economic crisis has only shown the folly of such a model, because even if the IMF wants to gradually solve the problem of an unsustainable Serbian banking model, the concept of a solution that looks too much like one that has led to the collapse of the Serbian economy. On several occasions, when there was a set of laws in this area, we pointed out that all these economic problems in Serbia are structural and that it will not go away with this fact that this global economic crisis is ending because, with the IMF's policy of high interest today, overestimation of the dinar and total external debt of Serbia, and the debt of the state and the private sector, as estimates show, will exceed 90% of gross domestic product. What we in the SRS pointed to was the fact that Serbia will thus enter into a state of permanent debt and economic crisis and it is clear that it must begin to address these structural problems. Perhaps one of the solutions is certainly the possibility that the NBS would further knock down the reference interest rate, as the inflation effect would be minimal. Banks could withdraw money that was placed at the NBS, but due to lack of insolvency debts, it would probably leave Serbia this money, the foreign exchange market would be under pressure at some point, but it is certain that the NBS can have enough reserves to neutralize such a blow at the level of the course it wants. This would also solve Serbia, or free itself of money that serves nothing, and at least reduce the external debt we talked about, especially that interest burden. We have already had the fact here in the Serbian Parliament that a rebalancing has already passed, which seems to me, has, above all, endangered the work of other functions of the state. Obviously, according to the announcements and the finance minister and the governor of the NBS, another one is expected to increase the VAT rate or additional tax on earnings, and it is clear that this will only further drive the private sector into the gray economy, and that the growth of unemployment will further knock down VAT revenues and profit taxes. Last year, if we base ourselves on this data alone, VAT and sales taxes amounted to 302 billion dinars, and the 2009 budget planned to charge 338 billion dinars, and the rebalancing allowed the expected amount of payment to be paid back at last year's level. With relatively large monthly oscillations, employees' contributions until October last year covered about two-thirds of pension funds, and that is, what can arise as an additional problem throughout this story, is that the share of the contribution since November has been reduced to half, and that the need for the transfer from the Republic of Serbia's budget to cover the difference between the contribution of employees and the amount of pensions has increased by 50% and from 33% to 50%, respectively. There are many examples, but it is obvious that there is little time for such a thing and that it is necessary to reform the complete Serbian tax and monetary system, that it takes time, but that some measures must be taken right away, if the state wants to protect both citizens and the economy, but not from the market and the laws that are being passed, but from the anti-market will of domestic monopolys present. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24018	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Mrs. Verica Radeta. You have 13 minutes and 20 seconds at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to waste my time explaining how commercially impossible it was to connect these agenda points that are now joined in a single debate, but it's clear that you didn't do this by accident. This was done on the assumption that among these points of the agenda, the greatest attention of the Members of Parliament will be drawn to the budget system and you can see that all MPs, from all parliamentary groups, who participated in the work, spoke mainly of the draft law on the budgetary system. The draft law on the completion of the Labour Act should have passed without a single publicly spoken sentence, because this bill, this one member who is changing, is not what you tried to present to us both in the light of this law and in the public when the amendment of the Labour Act is mentioned. The economic crisis and the social misery that Serbia is in today are primarily bad and criminal privatisation and poor labour laws, all of the Doss' laws from 2000 to today. You, Mr. Minister, you know best, very often in the media, you seem to be telling the truth about your impressions with various meetings and conversations with Serbian citizens who are out of work, who are not getting paid, who have been expelled from work by new employers, who work for salaries they cannot live on. And, believe me, Mr. Ljajic, you would have been much easier to perform your current function if you had defined yourself to propose a good, fair labour law to the National Assembly. The SRS, our parliamentary group, has made very open and clear comments on all the proposals of the labour law, we are talking about proposals from 2000 to today, from that law that was passed without the existence of the assembly majority. Should I remind Mr. Novakovic who voted remotely for the labour law from Thessaloniki, that first Doss law?- I'm sorry. On the text of the labour law at the time of your predecessor, by voting for the amendments, all MPs voted for all amendments, then the law did not go into the text proposed by the government, but part of that opposition today is power. It is interesting that today they need the law against which they once were, in the same way as the MPs of the SRS who voted. This is a way of functioning all of the governments so far and is responsible not only for this government, but for all of the governments so far why you have never defined yourself to propose to us that Parliament adopt a comprehensive law, which would cover everything that is really problems and employees and employers in a way that the law is, as far as possible, equally good and employers and employees. All previous labour laws since 2000 have exclusively taken care of employers and you, too, see, Mr. Minister, in your daily work. It's hard to find out in the cabinet. Since you do a good part of your job in the field, we see it in the media, there certainly people don't want to tell you much more than we do, or what we see and hear in the media. And you know, quite certainly, what are all the problems of this law, and how a good labour law could significantly help tens or hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens who have been in the field of privatisation and employment since 2000, who have brought so many citizens to the brink of existence. I will comment, as long as time allows me, on a number of members of the Labour Act to draw your attention to something that is both the obligation of your ministry and of you as minister, and which may lead to you actually having a thought – to propose a new labour law. This game with one member's changes, again, to please employers, in the good part of the tycoons, that's not good. That's not good, because you're representing yourself as a socially responsible government. The Socially Responsible Government must take care of each citizen of Serbia. You are neither social nor you are responsible, you are a bad, irresponsible and harmful government for all citizens of Serbia, or for the vast majority of citizens of Serbia and in every segment of society, as well as in this area that is in the jurisdiction of your ministry, Mr Ljajic! I'd like to remind you of Article 12. The labour law which states in paragraph 1 – that employees have the right to receive adequate income, safety and protection of life and health at work, health care, protection of personal integrity and other rights in the event of illness, reduction or loss of employment and age, material security during temporary unemployment, as well as the right to other forms of protection in accordance with the Law and the General Act. You know well, and the citizens of Serbia know that a huge number of employees do not have what Article 12 provides for them. The bill, again because of the fact that the law is bad and that criminal provisions do not lack hair from the head of the person who has been employed for several months or more, without paying them wages without paying them social or pension insurance obligations. So the state also got involved in, in the previous government's call, paying off the difference from budget funds, that part of which was not paid by employers, and yet the job is not finished and we still have the situation now not only with private sector employers. Here, you heard whether it was last night or before last night, the president of a municipality in Serbia said that the municipality, a local self-government financed from the budget, manages to pay only salaries to employees, and that there is no speech on contributions, social and pension, due to reduced transfers by the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia to local self-government. So, I mentioned Article 12 to draw your attention that as Minister, you provide for the application of Article 12. The bill's proposal, because there will be much fewer problems, above all with the citizens of Serbia, and you too will be easier in your ministry. Article 14 states that the employment contract or the decision of the employer may determine the participation of the employee in the profit achieved in the financial year, in accordance with the law and the general act. We also warned when this law was passed and every time any law was passed. The law must not contain the word "can." The law must say something "must" or "no" to something "eat" or "no". Every time it comes to "can," it's abused. Here, what kind of employer uses, or applies Article 14? I'm sure not a single or very small number of employers, because by law you didn't commit them to it. Like, the law said "can," and you leave it to tycoons who hold a monopoly around Serbia in all areas or in most areas. The obligations of employers, as referred to in Article 16, are, for example, in point (1) to pay the employee's salary in accordance with Law or Article 4) to provide the employee with the performance of the work contract established. If you applied, or made employers apply these two points of Article 16, then there would be no need to amend, or supplement the Law, as you have proposed today. Article 76. The law refers to compensation for damages – if the employer's fault does not benefit from the annual leave has the right to compensation for the average earnings of the previous three months, as determined by the general act and the contract of work. And I read this article because it's very close to this member whose change you're predicting. Why is this not applicable in the case of Article 116, as provided for in Article 76? Article 112 says that minimum earnings are determined by a decision of the Social-Economic Council on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. If the Social Council does not make a decision within 10 days, then the decision on minimum earnings shall be made by the Government. I quote this in order to draw attention and remind you of the time when this law was passed and when we spoke, Serbian radicals, that this Social-Economic Council should not be formed and that it should not take over the government's powers. You treat it yourself here, in fact, that they can, but they don't have to do their job, and if they don't do it – then the government will do it, which is what the government is supposed to do. I thought I was also quoting a chapter relating to employee claims in the event of bankruptcy proceedings, because it is extremely current in this period when hundreds of companies are threatened with bankruptcy and when a large number of employees are left out of work, runs out of income, runs out of pension and social insurance, runs out of health insurance. which is amazing, but unfortunately happens in the state of Serbia. I only mention one case: two days ago, a woman in the neighborhood tells me that, at the Bureau, the Employment Agency has recorded in her work book that she no longer has the perks she receives, because she's got a job. The woman didn't get the job, that's how you prepare the statistics, but they told her to come back in a few days to re-apply to that agency. So you manipulate people's lives, jobs, and statistics. Mr. Minister, you occasionally come honestly when you talk about employee problems and the problems of the part of Serbian citizens who are in your ministry's jurisdiction, but you know, and it's a scam. It sounds nice what you say, but you do nothing to change such a situation, and you can, regardless of the economic situation – your ministry and you personally can, here first of all, change the law or by adopting a new labour law, but not in this way. (President: I would like to thank you. ) I see that the time is running out, but allow me just one sentence, Mr. Chairman, regarding this member, because Article 116, whose amendment you are predicting, I will comment on when we talk about details, too, is a great delusion that will lead to a large number of citizens indefinitely, with your consent, Mr. Ljajic, in the situation of working for salaries that are far below the minimum wage and that they will not be able to feed the family. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24020	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24021	First, I would have to say what I agree with Mrs. Radet without any doubt, which is that it would be better if we passed a new labour law, which is no doubt a better solution than amending and supplementing this law. I'll agree with you that this isn't the best law. On the contrary, I have more trouble than those you have brought. You were then in Parliament – this law is the product of a political compromise that happened at that moment and I will not enter into it. Unfortunately, at this point, we do not have the agreement of the social partners on the amendments, or the adoption of a new labour law, and it is completely irrational to enter into the procedure without ensuring this agreement, first of all, with trade unions and employers, and given the importance of this law, I think that a greater consensus is needed, i.e. the wider consensus of parliamentary groups in this Parliament. You will admit that it is not realistic at this time to expect that agreement to be reached in view of the different views, on the one hand, unions and employers, and what the Ministry will do, on the other hand, will prepare a working version of the law for the autumn to enter public debate. We are prepared to reach as wide a degree of consent as possible in the conversation with the parliamentary groups regarding the adoption of the law. What I can't agree with you is that this change is actually a tycoon gratification. The basic purpose of this change is to allow a job to be preserved. Of course, these changes will not solve the problems we have in the economy, they will not solve the problems that we have with the inequity of our economy, that not all workers will not be protected and they will not solve technological surpluses in many businesses, but we will allow at least in certain companies to protect certain jobs and the basic purpose of adopting this law is to preserve jobs, not to protect tycoons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24022	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic. I have the right to a replica. It would be correct if you gave me three minutes to replicate the minister. Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Ilich. There's a word for Mrs. Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24023	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I'm going to use this line right now to explain what I didn't get here before, so I don't know how you guys figured out what I was going to say about supplementing this law. You have provided for a new position to be added to Article 116, which says d, ''exceptionally, in the event of an interruption of work, or a reduction in the volume of work required by a longer absence, the employer may, with the previous consent of the minister, refer the employee to a leave of work for more than 45 working days, with the remuneration of the income from the position of the 1st member. ''And the position of the 1st member says that the employee has the right to make a minimum profit of 60% of the average earnings in the previous three months, with no less than minimum earnings established under this law, during the termination of work, which occurred without the guilt of an employee, the longest 45 working days of the calendar year. Floskula, Mr. Ljajic, and what you have just said and what he has promoted as a highly intelligent Boris Tadic – that we should all keep our jobs. Of course, but the state needs to make new jobs possible. The state should protect employees from losing their jobs, this member is intended for employers, because you are now without restriction allowing employers to, like, have a firm, send people on forced leave, pay them 60% anyway of poor and poor wages. You know well that tens of thousands of employees in Miskovic's mini and maxi markets have salaries below "minimaries", that there is a base salary of slightly less than 15 thousand dinars, so with past work someone gets to 16, 17, 18, and the minimum earnings in Serbia are about 17,000, plus a mandatory addition to a warm meal, it amounts to about 21,000 dinars. Explain to me that you do not protect the tycoons and that you do not protect the employer. In this way you will also enable Miskovic and others who have employees to be able to guide them because they are not paid, that perhaps, in some period, because of the poor purchasing power of the population to close or to issue a store or a mini market, to someone for good money, to direct these employees indefinitely, with your consent, because that is how you predicted this law Thank you. [[(President: The time foreseen for the replica is up. Thank you.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24024	The word is Mr. Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24025	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we had these four very important laws and we expected one seriousness. You've seen, she's a little bit of a Minister of Finance, so she's bored and she's left, the hall's empty, the MPs of the ruling coalition don't care. It is sad to hear the minister of the ruling coalition say that a dozen MPs are present, because they need to hear some important things about the law that may leave tens of thousands of people out of work tomorrow or lead them into a difficult situation. Whether it goes hand in hand to an employer or employees, we'll see, but you serially adopt these laws. For the next session, you have prepared a set of laws, all of it will be united, it doesn't matter what the law on the budgetary system is discussed here, the labour law, all of it can together, credit, all in one pile, to finish it as soon as possible, and that in its exposé after a year of work the Prime Minister will come out and say that the government's greatest successes – 170 laws in Parliament, 250 laws pass the government's procedure. The second biggest success of the government – we introduced electronic sessions, which some did not remember earlier. That's very important for Serbia. Of course, he also said white Schengen was very important. But what will we have, what will the state have from the white Schengen, what will the citizens of Serbia have from the white Schengen, when poverty is mastered?- I'm sorry. I expected the prime minister to discuss serious issues in his exposé of the government's work anniversary. We now have an unsustainable system in the state, we have under a million employees, we have under two million dependent people, they're pensioners, people with disabilities, a variety of kinds of dependent people, and we have about a million people doing something. Of which the half in administrative affairs, in public enterprises, etc. That state, and with millions of people waiting for work, and no jobs, new companies aren't being created, they're not opening up, this situation is catastrophic, this situation needs to be discussed. How to get over the employee, no matter what he does, he receives a salary of 12 grand, 15 grand, and we have those we used to discuss that receive millions a month. Those employees have three on their backs waiting for some receipts. This situation is catastrophic and whoever solves these problems, they can't, of course, suddenly, have to start to solve it. However, there is no such solution today. You have seen that from New Year's Eve to this day, we have owed four billion euros. You know what it means to inject into a country four billion euros, three billion of which without this parliament?- I'm sorry. Here, it's now being announced at the World Bank, I guess today another $388 million is being signed for corridors. But this country, when it gets so much responsibility, needs to flourish, to go, to have one upward path, and it sinks ever lower and lower! That's the problem with this country, how to charge the budget? Is the budget charged? How can you charge a budget if you don't do one "Bor", one Majdanpek, one Magnochrom, if you don't do "Vagons", don't do "Viscoza", don't work there the whole "Rakovica", but everyone forgot about it, doesn't work for years, problems wherever you want. Mr. Ljajic, it's nice, it's gone, it promises people, it tells them it's going to do something, but it can't be done, there's no where, in any way. And we, every day of you from the ruling coalition, experience some new problem under the European integration company. You've introduced, here at the last session, five thousand new administrative posts, statistical regions, that's so important for Serbia, but, of course, the EU's demand. So you've introduced this communal police force, so it's all pulling back new administration, new costs, new expenditures, and there's no new jobs, new jobs. This very important topic, how to survive where there is no budgeting, perhaps the minister is not interested, she has a shortcut to work, and she has surrendered, sits down and listens to Mirko Cvetkovic who comes and gives his exposés. I almost told Mirko Marijanović, God rest his soul, and maybe it was more serious and better then, because I've been an MP since 1993 and there's never been a Parliament like this! No people, no MPs, no one's interested! Here, share whatever comes and how it comes, promises whatever it wants and whoever it wants. I don't know what to do anymore, we're in a completely unembarkable situation! Therefore, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, it is honorable to give the elections. The first time we had a problem at the government, a fight, we disbanded the government and said, "You have choices." You can't mortify the people! What is the goal of the ruling coalition? That's what Mr. Ljajic knows. The basic rule is to hire a working-age population, create working conditions and the person who receives the salary to survive with his family. How can that happen with you? Here again, thousands of people will be out of work. You made big promises in the election, big promises: 200,000 jobs, coming Mercedes, Folkswagen, Fiat! The largest construction site in Europe, the highways, everything is moving! Gentlemen, next to my house, whether it's spite or not, it's done 600 meters since spring, from the end of the season to now. The settlement chokes from the dust, the holes reach a depth of more than 20 inches [30 cm]. Poor tollers sit around and say, "We don't have oil for oil, former ministers, we don't have oil to start machines, we'll work manually for you, and we swallow dust." No one can open a window all summer, gentlemen, for nothing. Where are your construction sites? You're all dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead, you're dead. It's all stopped. Agriculture in disaster. A kilo of cherry is 12 dinars. Are you a normal world?- I'm sorry. Milk, when I was a minister, there were 34 dinars, and now it's 15, 16, 17, no one! The meat, the import lobby blooms! You're running an artificial dinar course and you're giving billions to make an import lobby do its job. He rules the earth! The tycoons are making businesses, they're getting back into systems! New companies are set up – tycoon! They're doing their jobs. Don't let me come out here one day with a list and you should be ashamed, gentlemen, of the ruling coalition!- I'm sorry. Here's the chairman of the board of directors who's cutting our logs, saving wherever he gets. And so be it, you don't have to pay us anything, don't pay us anything, nothing! But Mr. Government is leading the action now - the fight against cancer. The billboards are happening all over Serbia. The gentleman owns the billboard, Mr. President of the Administrative Board. And he did it for nothing in the land of the road, so the tolls don't have the bread to eat! And you say, "What are you nervous about?"- I'm sorry. Well, this is sad! This is grief! This has never been sadder and sadder! You don't care, you'll come on the day of the vote, you'll vote whatever they tell you. In the principle debate of fifteen laws, on agriculture, for the afternoon of four laws, all this goes, the budget system. That it's fortunate, here for a month to fight a battle about it and lay the foundations of a normal state. This country is collapsing, it's gone! The other day, one of them was saying "Palmi Plus," I don't want to mention his name right now, he says -- we're looking forward to these European integrations, because then there's nothing, then the borders will move away, then we'll be able to do whatever we want, and Brussels is the place to decide. The Serbian Parliament is where it will decide!- I'm sorry. You have to understand that, otherwise go home, sit here and what you're looking for in Parliament! What kind of ruling coalition are you? Do you have a job for the people? Do you have a ransom? What can we take to that EU? Where are your markets, gentlemen?- I'm sorry. What products can we take out?- I'm sorry. A little bit of this wheat you buy for a bagatella and a raspberries. Is that Serbia's future? Where are the banks? Whose banks are they today? How much do you raise in bank funds? Who's taking that money?- I'm sorry. Why don't these banks invest in our business?- I'm sorry. And this toy thing is one big dance! Gentlemen, we're not crazy, so we don't understand. You don't have the money to live and function the state. You're withdrawing money through the National Investment Plan, which is why you've introduced the Ministry of National Investment Plan. You take money off the employment and investment of new jobs and pay pensions and other salaries to budget users. And you don't pay what's planned in the budget, it's a long time because the government didn't respect the law budget -- and it hasn't paid for years what was to be paid! Then you let the tolls in and one day they'll choke. They choked, you put them in debt, you give them credit to pay, to survive, and to survive. But they can't make up for it, they're gonna crack, the system's shooting, totally! Why? Here, let them borrow the loan, and you don't pay anything. Kalanovićka has not paid seven billion from the NIP these past months, gentlemen, and it will come from a loan, so we will borrow them and say, "Here, put yourself in charge, just to get them off the budget, invest from the budget, and you know that the NIP funds should go to new companies, new jobs and new investments!" Money's been spent! There was no investment! No corridors were made. Why? It wasn't for projects, I know it, or expropriation, or anything, because it was purposelessly spent where it was supposed to be! And I remember Dinkic doing it, you son of a bitch! Take us two months to rebalance 100 million euros and say, gentlemen, here, give us the projects. We all get into projects and we don't get there, the end of the financial year, and it can't go back to the NIP, but it's spilling into the budget reserve and it's slowly starting to crack, the finance ministry is at its disposal! It's old tricks we're looking at here. Kalanovićka – how much did she give to the passengers, why not pay for the jobs, why is there no "Table" around Belgrade yet? You all took pictures there. I've been working 90 percent of "Tables," and you didn't pay when you were supposed to pay for it. You're not paying anything now! You don't pay for making those vital functions of the state. And it's all coming out of debt, because you figured out that the EU and the World Bank only give for investment, and primarily for roads and then you say -- let's take them down, so Dinkic took down five billion in one budget, so next year he took down six billion. Well, it's your debts. So he transferred the budget user to a public company with a debt of 10.2 billion dinars and said he would extend it within three months and not due until today. Now, these are your debts, and no one there was a thief, but there was no dinar there, as there is now and there will be none, because this is a non-domestic business in the state! You've done a coup in this Serbia, you've made a single parliamentary system a presidential system! Your hat's the president. Whatever I ask the people of the government if it can be completed, they say – see Boris and his Cabinette. Gentlemen, what are you doing in government? That's why you don't come to the sessions, that's why you're not there, because you don't decide anything. You get what you need to vote, here, these MPs also get what to vote on. Your group boss hasn't been here in days, no need. This is something passing where you show up on the day of the vote, finish the job, vote the miracle of the law and then come out Mirko and say – 170 laws we passed in a year. So, what is this serious state that in a year adopts 180 key laws? Well, how many working days are there, how many laws do you adopt a day? Well, these are important laws, are you normal people? Where are your limits, you don't know yet, and you're adopting all the laws?- I'm sorry. Don't be angry, don't throw it away, I wish you were capable of courting this country. You have a chance, but you don't know, gentlemen, and you're not even interested and you're not interested. This country is being run from some other centers. It's being run from somewhere, someone's taking her. Who, I don't know, we have to ask someone. Who's the main cap in Serbia and who's holding this whole system? What are we here - the Serbian Parliament? What is the Serbian Parliament's institution, what is the role of this most Serbian institution? What is her role and whether she has any role at all or serves as a prostitute to bring us some of the credits you've already signed here, here, you're already signing today, you're all done, and then you come to us, of course, you're going to get most of it, you're going to vote it, and it's going to go the way it's going to go. I expected the prime minister to talk about 69,000 companies that are on the verge of bankruptcy, in a blockade, to talk about the problems that have arisen today in the state, that 100,000 people have lost social life. What kind of fight against cancer?- I'm sorry. Do you believe -- there's a Javaljuk in Chačan hospital totally, I'm sorry the director isn't here, I went to get my child to treat him in Belgrade, and he's holding me for half an hour, he won't let me go, he's holding the fiscal register. Until you pay 50 dinars to get into the hospital, 50 dinars a man knocks, you can't find yourself confused, you run into a trainer, you run barefoot, you can't find 50 dinars, and he says, "I can't let you go, I can't let you go." My men, do you enter the hospital to save some life you have to pay a fiscal bill at the cash register of 50 dinars? That wasn't since pigtail twisted, gentlemen of the government. Do you know when the pigtail twisted? Well, it hasn't been since then! And that's today, gentlemen, and it's a disaster in this country. And we have to do something to save this country. You're talking here -- everyone's a technological surplus, here, I've been listening to the tech extra exposure now. Well, we've only got eight million citizens in this area. You saw, Chinese, who you handed over the other day to host the University have one city of eight million, one city! And this space, Serbia empty, you don't know how to organize it. One peasant would work, but he has no one to sell, he doesn't know what he's going to do, he doesn't know where he's going. Plant a cherry because you forced it, I remember, Dulicka and the others. Now he's got the motorcycle and he's cutting! He used to cut the plums, now he's taken out the raspberries! What do we do, we don't know where to go, what they say! Is there anyone normal here that can lead this country on a normal path? It will be difficult, I repeat, but realistically come out that this parliament is discussing problems, that we start solving these problems, if we can, if we have the strength, if we don't have, we can all get out of the package, so let some new people come in here who will know and find solutions! Everyone gets into this politics and sits down. And they all come. Some people here need two sticks to get in. They come in for five minutes, the side card and they go, they wave, they talk, they hit the kez, and they go home. And some have entered the government to bury themselves in the Alley of the Giants, because it will be free, man, in the Alley the Great will be, all fine, generations to watch. Well, it's not one normal world. Please think about what you're doing. You bring the Information Act so we can't say what we have to tell you, that we can't tell you anything, that we have to protect Dinkic and frame him. Guys, he buried the Serbian economy! In the history of the serious state, was once the minister of the economy of "assistencic" from some university that in years failed to be a doctor, nothing, to doctor, or to finish, and you gave him the whole economy and regional development, tourism and privatisation, you gave him more to be in charge of both infrastructure and everywhere, what you didn't give him. You see that's a pest, people?- I'm sorry. I'm telling you this from my best intentions. Don't be mad at me. Sometimes I might even be emotional. My soul hurts because of this Serbia! Don't talk to me about democracy. I've been fighting for her my whole life. And I almost didn't pay with my head for my fight for democracy, more than once. Now, what about democracy? This democracy, this kind of parliament, this kind of debate, this many kinds of laws that are adopted daily -- that's not Serbia's future! I welcome you, and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, come to your senses! This isn't good, this spill-over from public enterprises, the pay hike, it's a broken system...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-13-0.u24026	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Time is up, and democracy is strictly obeying the rules. Thank you. Is there anyone else who hasn't used his right to Article 93? Does the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there are no more reports on the lists of parliamentary groups, nor does anyone appear for a word anymore, I am concluding a joint principle search on: a draft law on the budgetary system, a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, a proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Marfin Bank" a.d. Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" and a proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act. By respecting the deadline laid down in Article 142, paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure, I schedule the debate in detail for Wednesday, 10:00 p.m., July 15th, 2009. Thank you for your cooperation and goodbye.
