ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, I will ask you to influence your undisputed authority that these parliamentary issues are not mere formalities and that finally, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are getting answers to the questions we are asking. This is how it all looks like a farce, to the possibility that we are supposed to ask something, however, without any answers or answers that absolutely do not satisfy the questions asked, we should shut down this institution, not to waste free time. Again, I ask the question -- what about the assets of the former Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, the SSRN of Yugoslavia, the Socialist Youth, etc.? I remind you again that there are over three hundred objects in question and that the right to use these objects had parliamentary parties, and to this day I have not received that answer. Again, I express my reasonable suspicion that it is a huge crime and that it would have to finally be answered and all the information related to these facilities - where they are, in whose hands they are, because under the 2000 law, absolutely zero any change of ownership under any conditions. Also, Mrs. Comic, I've asked a few questions about the "consalting Mafia". In the past decade, we have been in the midst of a consulting mafia that literally robbed Serbia and took over four billion for it. Among other things, I asked the Agency for Business Registers - was the consulting firm Morgan Stenley registered because it was not on the site, and it participated in the privatisation of the tobacco industry and therefore took ten million euros? How could she participate in this if it wasn't registered? I didn't get an answer until today. What kind of state is this? What does that look like? Also, Mrs. Comic, I ask you to influence me to finally get an answer to the question about Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and his participation in this dirty business when it comes to privatisation, because Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic was also the director of the Privatisation Agency as well as the CEO of Ces Mekona. Ces Mekon is also a company that has significantly participated in privatisation and for this took over 455 million dinars or, more specifically, 455,257,091 dinar. Although the question was asked, as it participated in over four hundred privatisations, those who were asking the question, as a Council for Combating Corruption, did not get an answer to this day. For example, she says, in the event of the privatisation of Ces Mekon, the company was hired by the Privatisation Agency to assess the value of the company. Let me remind you, Mrs. Comic, at the time that Ces Mekon was assessing, at the time Dusan Nikezic's son was at the Agency at Mirko Cvetkovic's and it was an obvious conflict of interest. Be careful, they sold the company "Seme" for the 132m then, which means that the square was worth about 6,669 dinars or 100 euros. He says -- in the Anti-Corruption Council, they then asked the government why the firm that Ces Mekon rated as an average sold as a company in which it is only worth business space, or at the price that applies to the companies that are before bankruptcy. The workers and the Council have never received an answer. I ask that the answer be finally delivered. He says - the role of this consulting firm run by Cvetkovic is also significant in the disputed privatisation of the Veterinary Institute in Zemun. The Council asked the government for an explanation of whether Ces Mekon was given representation based on a registration tender. They voiced suspicion that it was a conflict of interest, as there is a link between agency director Mirko Cvetkovic, as executive director and partner at Ces Mekon, and the owner of the company, Dusan Nikezic, whose son is Zvonimir Nikezic, deputy director of the Privatisation Agency. (President: five minutes. ) This is the most obvious example, I conclude, of policy and criminal and robbery of state property, and I ask you to provide me with an answer, and at today's session, when the time for asking parliamentary questions to the Government will show on the case of "Sugarana" in Kovacica what kind of robbery has been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31653	The word has a National MP Zlata Djeric, followed by a National MP named Rada Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the President-in-Office of Serbia, I am obliged to ask Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic a question, and I expect that at today's session, i.e. during the afternoon session, he will appear and perhaps immediately answer the public citizens of Serbia, as regards the statement by Mr Sandor Egereshi, which is today in all Serbian media, which is that this government will carry out the necessary changes to the Constitution by the end of its term, in order to achieve a sufficient degree of autonomy of Vojvodina. I know that no political party in its pre-election programme has announced changes to the Constitution, and that it has announced, it has had to Decidently declare that the amendments to the Constitution, whether the citizens will support it, whether they will vote for it, so the citizens of Serbia are very concerned, especially in Vojvodina, what kind of private agreements, arrangements have reached certain political parties or certain political figures, and that such an important act, whose change they are announcing, have not informed us. I expect Mr Mirko Cvetkovic to make a public announcement and respond to the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31655	The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31656	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS parliamentary group has warned several times in the last 20 days that the government has not submitted the budget within the deadline prescribed by the Budget System Act. To remind you, the law was passed several months ago and predicts that by November 1st the law must be in the Assembly, in order to be adopted by December 15th next year, December 15th is approaching, and we still don't have a budget. I am taking the opportunity to warn that the government has violated the Budget Law, because the deficit is far greater than 70 billion, as allowed by the current Budget Law, that it is currently 83-84 billion, or 150m euros higher than the law allows, so that, before the adoption of the 2010 budget, the budget rebalance for 2010 must also be adopted. It's December 15th. A few days ago, we received a reply from the finance minister and the finance ministry, with precise reasons why the budget is late. The answer was received on November 24th, dated November 16th, and was signed by Minister Dragutinovic. She explains, among other things, the reasons why she's late for the budget. What was very surprising to us is that it is saying – I suggest that these days there is a bill in the assembly procedure to determine the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, that this is a constitutional obligation, or obligation, provided in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the implementation of the Constitution. Article 88. The bill provides – the competent republican authorities are obliged to take all necessary measures, including the provision of necessary financial resources. And he says -- as it follows from the above that the adoption of the statutes and the bill will affect both the amount of income and expenditure of Serbia's budget, both at the overall level and on certain budget users, it is necessary to specify precisely those financial effects before the 2010 draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia is sent. We thought the law on the transfer of jurisdiction was done in co-operation, that it was done by the entire government. Since it is 11 months late, compared to what the Constitution predicts, or constitutional law. We thought that the entire government was doing it and that each of these responsibilities was followed by serious analyses, because when these responsibilities go to Vojvodina, they will have to be conducted to the fullest extent. We expected that complete analyses of all financial effects were made and the finance minister indicated that this is completely different, that only now is it done and that the law on the transfer of competences to Vojvodina is the reason why Serbia and Serbian citizens do not have a budget. We didn't accept the explanation that no law on the financing of Vojvodina could be passed. There's no real autonomy without funding laws. We couldn't accept the explanation why there's no law on Vojvodina property, because if you want essential centralization and essential autonomy, you have to determine these two extremely important things. It is simply amazing that the government has entered the law on the transfer of competence completely unprepared, that there is absolutely no idea how much revenue it is, that is, how much funds it is necessary to target the AP Vojvodina so that these powers can be implemented and it is absolutely amazing that this is the reason why we do not have a draft budget for 2010 in the Assembly today. That confirms what we've pointed to in the last weeks in the Assembly, and unfortunately it's absolutely true. I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, how much will the entire portion of the tax revenues of the Republic of Serbia belong to the AP Vojvodina? The second question is: when will the 2010 draft budget finally be in the assembly procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31657	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31658	My question this time is on behalf of the Parliament Club Advanced Serbia – SNS, primarily the leadership of the Assembly and professional services, and those working on the maintenance of the National Assembly website. In fact, it has recently been practiced to give a brief overview of the events at the meeting, i.e. the course of the session, in the context of the topic. I am protesting on behalf of the SNS MPs and on behalf of parliament, because the site cannot literally represent what the promoter explains in the law itself, which is why some law is proposed, what it wants to achieve, and that discussions by SRS MPs, DSS, SNS, LDP are called opposition discussions. You may consider us an amorphous mass, perhaps we are not worthy enough to identify individuals, or MP groups with principled views, but it is for us to announce the way in which the parliamentary channel is applied or reporting tomorrow from the board, when it seems expensive to you that the Second RTS Programme is transferring the session. Even right now, it's not enough for me that those who follow the meeting and have the opportunity to access this site to see that it has nothing to do with reality. I am simply interested in the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which also behaves in this regard as a government body. The ruling majority can work in the interest of their government, and this is completely understandable and politically fair, but it cannot be presented to the Assembly, in its overall work, and reporting on the work of the National Assembly in this way to the citizens because it does not respond to the truth. In the name of truthfulness and proper reporting, I don't expect you to put whole sessions and total stenograms, because they're received by individuals as they suit them. That's not even an option. But one level, minimum, objective information is simply necessary. Believe that for the rest of us MPs, it's offensive. I was in congregation responsibilities on my way out of the country, and when I tried to see what was happening in this congregation, I was completely appalled by the difference between what I could hear in the conversation with my colleagues, my family, what was written in the paper and what was on the National Assembly site. Every move, every performance, every information that comes out of this house is a picture of us, or about the authors of that news. I'm not going to ask you to behave like this at the time of the government and pass laws that you will enjoy tomorrow as MPs of the opposition. But I ask you not to lend anyone such inaccuracy, because it is simply not the information that is expected of this congregation. That unequal treatment when you make up delegations, when you couldn't go to Holland, the SRS didn't go. No one has even informed Parliament club Forward Serbia that it is going somewhere. We don't want to hear from the towers where the delegation goes, which is where it goes, where it goes, which is the counseling. This home is, you say, Mrs. Comic, the home of those who want to come to it, and she is the first house of MPs here, who must be all equal, whoever chaired this assembly today or yesterday. The first amongst the equals, in the image of the president or vice president who currently holds the presidency, you know what it means - to predicate the responsibility between us, not to give the place where it is valorizing in the interest of its ruling majority. I simply ask you, on behalf of the authority of the Assembly, to take care of the texts on the site - assembly activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31659	Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives answering for a word? Does anyone want a word based on Article 235? (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the site: Just one second...) ) National MP Jorgenka Tabakovic wants to speak again, but according to article 235 once to five minutes. It's been used. I have no reason to give you my word in this part of the session. So each parliamentary group has a president or authorised representative for the application of Article 235 who can use the right once to five minutes. (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the post: I forgot to mention the New Serbia parliamentary group... I thank you. In the presentation of the People's Parliament on who was treated by all the names of the opposition was left out, without intent, of the NS Group, the others were mentioned, so this was corrected. Does anyone else want a word from the authorised representatives or the president of the parliamentary groups? Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Milica Radovic and Dejan Radenkovic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic has called for the sittings to be attended by representatives of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina Tamas Korhec and Dragoslav Petrovic. Also, I remind you that today, November 26th, is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 200. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly today, from 16:00 to 19.00, will be the time to ask parliamentary questions to the members of the government present. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – THE PROPOSAL OF DAVANJA PRE-FERENCE ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AUTONOMAL COUNTRY OF VOVODINE The first registered speaker is MP Zoran Mašić, after which the National MP Žika Gojković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31660	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at first I would like to say, first of all, because of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, because of our sympathisers, that the SNS does not object to the adoption of the Statute of Vojvodina, or the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. On the contrary, we are in favour, and we believe that these are documents that are in accordance with the existing Constitution and that they should have already been brought. However, we oppose the adoption of these acts with elements and attitudes that do not comply with the Constitution and which are elements of the statehood of the AP Vojvodina. For almost 30 years I have lived in the AP Vojvodina, and I remember the period when the AP was set up under the laws of the Constitution in 1974, those 1980s, and also the fresh memories after the change of one, and the other constitution, as the province functioned. That is why, with full right, I and all my colleagues coming from the AP Vojvodina, we have the right to criticise, to suggest that the documents brought by this parliament are exactly in accordance with the current Constitution and to be of real interest to citizens and the Republic of Serbia, as well as to citizens in the AP Vojvodina. Since I have already spoken for longer in the principle debate on the law on the transfer of jurisdiction, estimating the time available to our parliamentary group, I will once again try only some elements to apostrophe, which are in the draft statutes, which are not in accordance with the Constitution and are not of the interest of the citizens of Serbia or the citizens of the AP Vojvodina itself. It is the members of this Statute that regulate the adoption of certain development strategies, in particular the strategy for the development of agriculture, science, the adoption of strategic plans for economic and social development. In each serious country, strategies are adopted at national level. They actually have a long-term character. In serious countries, parliament strategies are adopted, making such strategies more difficult to change. Unfortunately, the practice in our country, especially since 2000, is that the development strategies are almost all economic and social areas brought by the government, and therefore they are not very serious documents. The truth works, the statute foresees, and Article 34, that most of the strategies to be adopted in the AP Vojvodina should be passed by parliament of Vojvodina i.e. The Assembly, which means at the Republican level, is being made strategies by a government decision. It can happen, tomorrow, when all these documents are implemented that someone from the AP Vojvodina says - our strategy has stronger power, because it was brought to parliament, than a strategy that was adopted at a republican or national level. That is why we believe that such documents should absolutely remain in the jurisdiction of the Republic authorities, if they accept our proposals from the government of this country, in the next period of this strategy should be brought into parliament and fully seen through them the economic development of our country, the development of agriculture, the development of science, the development of all other areas, the social activities, because you will agree with me that there are no specificities of agriculturals in the AP Vojvodina, and there is no living or tomorrow will not live better than he has lived from farmers in this, as we often say, the central part of the Republic of Serbia. I only took an example of agriculture. The same is true in science and in this social area, as well as in agriculture, this country should provide much more resources and allow for other benefits, especially for the development of agriculture, but also for the development and improvement of research. I must also commend certain proposals put forward in the Statute, including in the proposal for a law on transfer of competence, for example on science, that the province will set up certain funds to assist scientific research and education institutions, primarily to provide a part of the material costs, then, the service of scientific research equipment, the financing of even certain projects. But as a strategic branch of social interest and of national interest, funding and the development of science must be at a republican level. As well as agriculture, since it is inadmissible for us that inspection controls return to the province in the good part of business and social activity, and from this very period of the previous province authorities, when these entities were also in the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, are relatively fresh memories that there have been frequent conflicts of jurisdiction in inspection controls. What crosses the border, where it should control the state's inspection or earlier federal and within the province itself, that it should now control some circuit inspection, so there have been frequent overlaps of jurisdiction, often misunderstandings and various types of conflict. I don't think that's necessary. Furthermore, I would like to point out again the unnecessaryness of the establishment of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. That's what I was talking about two days ago. Some here yesterday tried to explain and say that in some other countries there are some regional academias and that such a pandan could be established with us. Yes, there are academias in many countries, and there are a large number of academys in us, and I'm just going to remind myself of some. There's a medical academy, there's a veterinary academy, there's an engineering academy, there's a pilot academy, there's a military academy, so there's a glow of professional accelerations that include certainly certain research workers. In other countries, there are similar academys or academic and scientific, but in each country there is one national scientific academy that is the creator of the development of scientific research, educational work. These people are just taking part in building a strategy, projects of national importance. And there is no way to justify that there are some Academy of Professional Types in some countries or a professional-science type, that such a pandan should be established both with us and that there is an academy that has, above all, a certain political character and the desire of certain politicians and certain political furniture to restore the Academy of Science and Art of Vojvodina, because it was in some future period. We have the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, as a prominent scientific institution that has gained a reputation around the world, we have the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts in Novi Sad, means in Vojvodina, and all people who are involved in scientific research and meet the conditions to be elected for regular or correspondence members of the Academy of Sciences should do so right through the Serbian Academy of Sciences, above all, should deliver people researchers from Vojvodina. And I think that it is also feasible, and again all that advocates the establishment of that institution we warn that it is unnecessary and that it is not of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or to the citizens of the province of Vojvodina, because nothing important will advance scientific research or educational work in the province. Furthermore, we oppose the establishment of a Vojvodina Development Bank. We think it is unnecessary to put other regions and other regions in an unequal position. As a party, we advocate the establishment of a developmental agricultural or agrarian bank that will, above all, serve to finance and develop and improve agricultural products, as one of the most significant economic branches in our country. This authority, in this sense, should seriously consider our proposals and set it up itself, but make sure that if we get citizens' trust and come to power in this country, that we will form among the first ones a agricultural development bank, which, above all, will finance the development of agricultural production. Furthermore, we oppose the self-indemnity of the province, the collection of taxes and the participation in the revenues of public enterprises and the institutions established, means that part of that gain is being poured into the province's budget. These powers are anti-constitutional and should remain in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, as they were in most other countries. So, compared to the time we have at our disposal, I once again presented just a few things that are in the Statute of Vojvodina, which, according to us, are unconstitutional and unnecessary. In the context of the debate on amendments on the proposal for a law on the transfer of competence, and we will explain more specifically, and I hope to understand the proposal for a law on the transfer of competence, that a good part of our amendments will be adopted. In essence, this key act, because the law on the transfer of jurisdiction essentially implements this Statute and puts it into office, means that these amendments will be adopted and that these documents will be regulated in accordance with the Constitution. The truth is, this document, the bill of statutes has been amended significantly in relation to some previous versions, but I think there are still a lot of elements, more opportunities to exploit and really be generally acceptable to all citizens, to members of all peoples and peoples living in the Vojvodina area and, ultimately, to be acceptable to most of the parties operating politically in the area of both Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31661	Thirteen minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used and is available for another five minutes. The word comes from MP Zika Gojkovic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31662	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, from the debate we had had the opportunity to listen to in the past days when it came to the statutes and the law on jurisdiction we could see what was expected, that this debate, at least when it comes to the opposition, would be dealt with in more form than in essence, when it comes to the Statute of Vojvodina. The biggest resistance and disagreements arise precisely as a result of the fact that the decentralisation process did not include the whole of Serbia at the same time, so that, by doing so, the Statute of Vojvodina is very maliciously represented as separatist. Therefore, the SPO advocates the urgent and comprehensive decentralisation of Serbia, as arranged by EU states, by the same rules, by the same laws and by the same obligations. The EU's policy is precisely regionalism policy. This means that EU funds will not be able to compete for funds without defining the region. That's a fact. When we talk about criticism, then we should tell the public that he has complete insight. As a fact, the fact is that for decades in Serbia, there has been one widespread but almost nothing based on prejudice against which the centralised state, in which budget powers and all power and influences under the control of the central state, is a strong state. A state that is decentralised, with regional authority and with strong local self-government, is a state that is weak and is subject to secession of its parts. Unfortunately, such an opinion is the government in Serbia, the question is where else, although the experiences of other countries speak quite the opposite. Countries such as Great Britain, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, Slovenia, experienced real economic development and prosperity after decentralisation. Strengthening the AP and the region, just like we are trying to do in Serbia, in many countries like Italy, Spain, the UK, has just led to the fact that the existing separatism comes down to a minimum and that the unity of the state is preserved. I say, on purpose, I underline existing separatism, since it was extremely visible in these countries. When we talk about Vojvodina, when we criticise this statute, we need to be honest and say some other things. It should be said that the decentralisation process that began in 2002 in Vojvodina led to significant results. The facts suggest that the province administration in many elements of the work and functions takes on far more quality than the central administration does, and there are many indicators. Regular adoption of the final budget, co-operation with the Republic's Information Trustee, which we in the SPO think is very important, the modernisation of the province's administration, the greater legality of the work of the province's authorities, more than 80% of administrative cases are resolved within the legal deadline, the reduction of unemployment and many other things. But most importantly, it is that Vojvodina has become a living example that the concept of multiethnicity can be implemented on one occasion, to say, relatively small space despite all the troubles and wars this country has had. When on one side we have all this said, when on the other hand we have one very clear view that Vojvodina has neither legislative nor executive nor judicial authority, then it is completely unclear who it is that wants the secession of Vojvodina and how it wants it. It's certainly another opportunity for political manipulation, but above all, an opportunity to show who these people are who underestimate citizens, the same people who chose them. If we look at the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the part that concerns the Kosovo issue, and if we compare it to the debate we have had in the last few days, with a very heated debate, I cannot help but say that I have been formed to believe that certain patriots trust the Albanian people in Kosovo more than the Serbian people in Vojvodina. It's something that's terrible, it's a classical political hypocrisy that has been segregating this people for years. We welcome the introduction of additional guarantees for the special rights of mothers and children as part of our programme commitment to a healthy and stable family, and special protection of these categories. We also highlight the positive formation of the AP Vojvodina Development Bank, which would replace several existing Vojvodina funds and in a more comprehensive, more economic and transparent manner would be a pillar of the development of Vojvodina, but also of Serbia. There have been many words about international regional co-operation. Unfortunately, it was mostly criticism. We in the SPO think the exact opposite. We believe that interregional co-operation between the AP Vojvodina within the Serbian Constitution and the established foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia can only be an impulse of the European integration of the Republic of Serbia, but also a good framework for co-operation with the Serbian diaspora in the environment. It is the locomotive, as the SPO sees Vojvodina and as it has seen and described in its declaration since 1993, but it is the difference between us from right-wing European Serbia and those who want to introduce themselves to the right-wing people, but through this debate on the statute, they have very clearly shown how far their left ideas still stand in their hearts. Ladies and gentlemen, the AP Vojvodina statute is a balanced document that is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and represents a major step towards Serbia's further decentralisation. Regionalisation, the establishment of new municipalities and politicistic development, my becoming a reality for the entire territory of Serbia, and all of course must be accompanied by political decentralisation, i.e. division of the state into several electoral units. That is why the SPO will support this draft statute in the voting day. I would use, Madam Chairman, just one more minute, maybe not enough, to look back at what's been going on in the past few days, and it's not about the statutes. It's terribly degutant, and I believe that many like me are disappointed that the funeral of the late Patriarch was used for personal promotions. So I would take the opportunity to say and to call on us to continue in this assembly to fight with the strength of the arguments, by the power of the fact, to give up the hard words and vanity once and for the first time in our lives and to show how much we have actually learned from the late Patriarch.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31663	Seven minutes and 15 seconds used by the MPs' group. The ZES parliamentary group is available for 59 minutes and 45 seconds. The word is by MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this is one of the most important topics, not only in this assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also before this calls, and I think every future assembly of the Republic of Serbia Assembly will refer to this session where the Statute of Vojvodina is adopted. Why is that? Because there is objectively a concern that the adoption of the Duke's statutes for Serbia can be one of the greatest historical mistakes and problems that may be greater than the KIM problem. KIM is also occupied when it will have to return to the constitutional and legal order of Serbia, and this with Vojvodina will be a voluntary act and a voluntary path towards secession. Here in advance, I believe that the vast number of MPs of the ruling majority do not think that this is the path and that it is such a danger. I don't think they're doing this consciously, because they believe that this may be some way that would possibly make Serbia a better one. I'll try to convince you of the facts or documents that that's not the case. If you take only from the moment that Kingdom of Yugoslavia was created, it means almost 100 years ago, from that moment on, the password "weak Serbia" and in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and in that Socialist Yugoslavia, Tito's Yugoslavia, so here is now "weak Serbia". The only weak Serbia could satisfy all those living in Yugoslavia and now in Serbia. You know how it was repetitive and how the Vatican did it, and the Comintern and the Yugoslav communists. Unfortunately, with the help of Serbian communists, but only after Serbian communists Filipovic, Sima Markovic, Vladimir Ćopic and Petko Miletic were killed in Moscow processes. When they cleaned up the Serbian leadership, they found those who blatantly reiterated the need to destroy the great Serbian hegemonism. That the Dukean question is not a new question and that this statute is not something new I will show you on the basis of documents. This is the Duke of the Dukes, this is November 1958, the Salzburg Declaration of the Vojvodina Movement. He says: "Leaded by the eternal principles of natural law and social justice, the Vojvodjan movement programme is based on Christian ethics, on social justice, on democratic principles. The basis of the programme is the principle of equality between all the ethnic groups of Vojvodina and federalism." That's mentioned in 1958. The second conclusion: "The Vojvodina Movement rejects any concept of declared minorities or one favored state-run people." How does this sound familiar? The third conclusion: "Vojvodina, as a federal unit, a state of a wider Central European Federation, will be an organic part of the future EU". In 1958, look at the current statute, so to speak. One part of the fifth conclusion: "If, contrary to our principles, there are still issues that may arise, they can and must be resolved by democratic, peaceful means, in a joint discussion, in the spirit of the best agreement between the representatives of Vojvodina, on the one hand, and representatives of neighbouring peoples, on the other hand." Who are the neighboring nations? What neighbouring countries are these? Is this one of these countries and Serbia from Užic to Belgrade, as former Tito's communists used to say. I can't read it all for the sake of time, but I'm happy to give it to anyone who's interested in this document to look at it and compare it to the statute, to see how many things are exactly identical, just said in a different way. One of the thematics or conclusions here says: “As long as there are more common interests (conversation of co-operation) in close relations, such a relationship could be imagined between Croatia and Vojvodina, which have more mutual interests than with other members of the Danube Federation.” That's the 1958 conclusions, gentlemen. It is further said: “The minimum that could satisfy the justified requirements of Vojvodina is the position and status of Vojvodina as a federal unit in any composition. Under Vojvodina, in full terms, it calls, therefore, a geographical, historical-political and ethnographic, it is necessary to understand the provinces of Banat, Bačka, Srem and Baranja triangle." The only difference between the current statutes that the Baranja triangle does not mean, although the people of Vojvodina entered Serbia with Sremo, Banat, Backo and Baranja in 1918, with this baranja triangle. That's what we're pointing at and we're trying to tell you that you're not the one who started with the statute. This is a long-planned trip, it's all long planned, it's just waiting for a convenient moment for this to end. If that's the case, I'll show you the documents, no matter what some of you laugh at. I know some of you don't even wear their names and names because of their parents' past. But that's their problem. They shouldn't at least laugh at the facts I'm making. Maybe they can disprove them? To make some other argument. But laughing at what's happening today, I think it's the hardest possible cynicism. In 2000, the newspaper "Ta Nea" said in Athens: "As long as the brother-in-law war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Western sources began to announce a new explosion in Kosovo and Metohija. Immediately after the end of the NATO bombing, NATO began to play on the map of the further decapitation of Yugoslavia, through the independence of Montenegro and today, while the catastrophic damage that NATO bombs have done to the bridges in the Sad have not yet begun to remove, plans with Hungary's minority and the possibility of self-indulgence of Vojvodina are being put first," according to a comment from the Athens daily in 2000. You didn't make this up, we didn't make this up. This is a project that's being realized. It says in the German list "New Politics", according to the Vatican and Cije plan, the integration of these Balkan territories, where the Catholic population lives, into the common continent. With the help of German capital and the US administration, the Vatican has set out to realise the long-standing dream of connecting Austria, Italy, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Cosmeta, Vojvodina, Albania and Romania. Its realization began three years ago, by infiltration several hundred alleged priests from the Vatican to Albania and in the space of Cosmeta and by sending a larger group of German special forces to train Albanian police units. These are very clear things that say that this plan is only possible if it gets support in Serbia. You see, in 92, the U.S. Congress, in February, it reached eight conclusions. The seventh conclusion says: "As a condition for international recognition, Serbia will be asked to commit not to provide any more assistance to the Bosnian and Serbian Krajina. Also, at the first moment it will be required to introduce old forms of autonomy to Kosovo. As additional pressure, the Hungarians will demand Buck. During this phase, Europe will pledge to the Serbian government in Serbia, parallel to previous requirements, to abolish the economic blockade and economic aid for recovery of the economy. “ In 1992 nothing new, everything is the same, only the scenario has changed a little. The ninth conclusion: "Political and economic pressures on Serbia will not end with this. Europe hopes that the masses of refugees and JNA officers will be so burdened for Serbia that it will cause economic chaos. Finally, to help all these republics, including obedient Montenegro, destabilize and separate Serbia, Europe will also provide them with small economic assistance. “ In 1992 these conclusions were adopted in the American Congress. What happens next? Following the adoption of the first version of the statutes, in 2008, the European Commission immediately goes public and asks Serbia to adopt the statutes, which puts it as an imperative. With what right? One counter-constitutional act, because you came to that conclusion, and that's why the original form was changed, although this one was no better either, because this one was also anti-constitutional, but the first one was so rigorous that it was simply amazing. But the EU is demanding that the statute be accepted. What is the EU's interest in adopting the Statute of Vojvodina and getting some new forms of autonomy? The statute, among other things, is a public secret, is said to have not been written in Serbia, written by Hungarian academician Ferenc Glanc, with the help of some other Hungarian academics. This brings up serious people who are dealing with this topic and who warn that this thing with Vojvodina is an extremely serious matter. If that were the case, there are some moves that are already being made. They say a banana brigade has been formed for the entire territory. I would use this, among other things, to pass it on as a question to the Ministry of Defense, to give us an answer as to whether it's true. It says -- a banana brigade has been formed for the entire Banat territory, based in Pancheva, with already designated brigade commander, Serbia's Army Active Colonel Steve Radojicic. This brigade was formed as a backup brigade of active military officers for the entire Banat. To remind you of the events in the former SFRY, to remind you of the reserve composition in Slovenia, to remind you, too, of the reserve composition in Croatia, how it all started and how it ended. I'm expressing serious concern that this can all happen the same way that it happened in the former SRJ. And the question is, what's the background of all this? What's all this about? Does anyone think about what will happen when the Banatian Germans first ask for compensation for their property? To remind you of Vaclav Klaus, the Czech President of the Republic, who refused to sign the Lisbon Agreement, until they secured for the Czech Republic the right not to be obliged to pay compensation to the Sudanese Germans. Who on behalf of Serbia will stand on the line and say we do not accept the Lisbon Treaty or enter the European Union until you promise not to pay compensation to Germans who went to Germany after the Second World War. Who's gonna do it? Is it possible that this is a move that brings us into a situation that we will have to fulfill, because it will all come down to one condition: to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31665	People's MP, the time you have at your disposal has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31666	Just one more sentence. To remind you of 1974, when the Constitution of Serbia was adopted, then in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the chairman of the Assembly said that only one vote, one MP was against what Radenko Mandic, Cacanin, stood up and said... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31667	People's MP, thank you. The word has been issued by MP Bojan Kostreš, MP Aleksandar Jugovic and Bojan Kostreš have replaced the order by the application for the word, so now there is a word from MP Bojan Kostreš, followed by MP Rade Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31668	Dear Mrs Comic, dear colleagues and colleagues, I must express great satisfaction that the AP Vojvodina statute arrived in Serbia after more than a year. Although I, and my party colleagues, do not think that this statute is epochal, that it is largely restoring the autonomy of Vojvodina, nor that this statute will largely resolve all the issues raised by the province's administration, but also by the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, I must say that it is a great relief to the fact that the final statute, I hope, on Monday or Tuesday, will be adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that, hopefully, we will put an end to this chapter of debate, the accusations and the conflicts that exist both in this high house and in the public. In fact, the autonomy of Vojvodina is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Although I think that constitution is not good enough, although I was against it and actively participated in the campaign against the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, after the adoption of that constitution by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, this constitution is for me the highest legal act in my country and I will respect it. This constitution today allows this level of autonomy that allows and therefore it is good that the Statute of the AP Vojvodina has taken advantage of all possibilities and that the Law on Transfer of Jurisdiction has allowed Vojvodina to consume maximum powers in accordance with the existing Constitution. But the adoption of these two acts will not be the conclusion of a story on Serbia's decentralisation and regionalisation and the construction of a modern democratic European and efficient state. It's just supposed to be a start. What we will be pushing for is that all that Vojvodina has is obtained as soon as the other regions in Serbia, so the Shumadi, and the Morav area, and western Serbia, and the city of Belgrade and everyone else. The benefits of autonomy are multiple. I will give an example that perhaps in the best situation or in the best way shows how, when autonomy exists, one region or one area can develop. According to the Privatisation Act, after privatisation of any state-owned enterprise, Vojvodina and the AP Vojvodina budget remain 55% of the funds, so that, after the donation or sale of NIS Vojvodina, there are 400 million left for the public company, 220m euros. The sale of the Nis tobacco industry, which was sold for 377m euros, left the town of Nis 19m. By selling the Vranje industry, which was sold for 50 million, Vranje remained 2.5 million, which means that these two cities received about 21.5m euros. If by chance there were a Moravian province, after privatising the two companies to the region, there would be 210m euros left in the region, as it says about what benefit the people living in the region would have if they had an autonomous province. That money, therefore, is worth more than 200m euros for 40,000 jobs. There would be 40,000 jobs in the Moravia area if it had been organised as a province and had rights like the AP Vojvodina. What we advocate is that all the rights that the AP Vojvodina has and other regions when they are created in Serbia because it is the only way to have an effective state, to have a country that will be closer to the citizens and that will be able to solve their problems. I don't doubt any of the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I simply believe that one minister, regardless of who he was, is not so capable, smart and good-quality as to know about all the problems in Novi Sad, in Subotica, in Leskovac, in Kralje, in Cačka and in other areas. Building strong local self-government, building a region, will allow the government to be closer to the citizens, that the government directly corresponds to the citizens and that all those problems that can be solved at the level of local self-government to be resolved at the level of local self-government, all those problems that are the issue of the region to be resolved at the level of the region, and those topics that are exclusively the issue of the state, such as monetary policy, foreign policy, macroeconomic policy, security, these are issues that should remain at the level of the Republic of Serbia. It's the only way we're going to make an effective state that's going to be better. There are many delusions that such a system of state authorities will increase its administration and collect the state. That is simply not true, because today we have 31,000 employees in the Republic administration and 23,000 employees in local self-government. The city of Belgrade has 1,700 employees, and the AP Vojvodina, or the province administration, is somewhere between 1,600 and 1,700 people. So, it's not a big figure, but these people allow authorities in Vojvodina to implement, allow citizens and citizens of Vojvodina to easily consume their rights and allow the province's administration to function very easily. If we were to go logically that the province administration is surplus, then we could say that the administration of the city of Belgrade is a surplus, because every municipality in Belgrade has its own administration, so what do we need the administration of the city of Belgrade for? It is simply not true, because the city of Belgrade as one whole must have authorities that manage the municipal system, and traffic in the city and all other issues that are in Belgrade's jurisdiction. In addition, I must say that we are very pleased with the fact that Vojvodina will be able to have representations, in accordance with the statute and the law on jurisdiction, in Brussels, and will be able to communicate with other regions. Simply, 380 and some regions today in Brussels have their own representations, and I am very sorry that many of my colleagues have not been able to go to Brussels and see what it looks like, because many of the issues that are being solved at regional level are very important. I'm not happy just because Vojvodina has or will have its own representation in Brussels, but we're terribly sorry that, let's say, Belgrade doesn't have, that Nis, Kragujevac, Cačak can't communicate with the same funds that Vojvodina can with. For this reason, I think we should not go in the direction where the Vojvodina are abolished, but rather allow others in Serbia to have the same rights and powers as we do. When Bulgaria and Romania entered the EU, then the countries of Bulgaria and Romania helped their regions open their representations in Brussels and thus lobbyed common forces to make more money come to Bulgaria and Romania. I think that's the way Serbia should go. I think we need to be organized and that this first step that Vojvodina will take is just the first step that will take a very short while, that very quickly the city of Belgrade has its own representation there and that other regions, when they are formed, have that opportunity. That doesn't mean they're embassies. That doesn't mean foreign policy is being run there. This means that we will be able to apply to certain funds and that we will be able to help make money come from the EU to Vojvodina. I hope very quickly to other parts of RS. I think the story of separatism is a reflection of impotence and an attempt to distract attention from the essence, and the essence is that the province's administration, which has been in power in Vojvodina for the third term, has undivided support for citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, that the province's administration is wasting great energy to help RS and its European efforts and to try to be a bridge between Serbia and Europe. That is why I hope that these laws and laws and statutes will be passed and voted as soon as possible in the RS Assembly, although I must say that I am not satisfied with the competencies allocated to Vojvodina's acts, but this is one beginning to create a new, modern, European, decentralised and regionalised strong state of Serbia, which is in the service of its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31669	Ten minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31670	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course, yesterday and today I have followed all the debates which, according to its content and how it is reflected that many state issues, on many political issues, on many personal issues of our citizens, the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and of course the citizens of Serbia. With respect to the right of all of us to express our own position, the position of the political option we belong to, I would like to say that we have absolutely respected here in Parliament, procedurally speaking, the Constitution, because in accordance with Article 99 of our Constitution, which speaks of the competences in point 8, we are actually giving prior consent to the Statute of the AP and in accordance with Article 185 and we have been doing our activities, and Article 85 says that the highest legal act of the AP Statute is that the Statute of the AP brings its assembly, so the Assembly of Vojvodina with the previous consent of the National Assembly. In this previous agreement, what was happening in the work of the National Assembly, was our activity in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Yesterday I informed about how the Committee on Constitutional Affairs worked and how it was spoken, and the Committee on Legislative Affairs assessed that the text of this Statute is in line with the applicable legal acts of our country and the Constitution as a basic and basic act. It is quite logical that the content and participation in the debate of many MPs was permeated by both emotions and certain tendencies that can be seen as political messages, but I have reported first of all to say that the Assembly in all its segments, the Serbian Parliament, respected the Constitution and its contents and form, contributed first to the debate on acts that are of paramount importance. What did it do, though? In addition to the arguments that were heard, which were related to the content of the acts, some of which were highly directed to our public, and in this regard I need to read the text of the letter sent to me by the enlightened Mr Episcopal of Grandma Iriney, because he says, "Dear Madam President of the Assembly, please let my statement in the paper be read in front of the MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia. In advance, thank you, with respect and good wishes." The following is the following: "For the sake of information that one of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in a session held on 25 November 2009, in the afternoon, read my alleged letter concerning the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, I can only state that it is a pure falsification, which is a crime. In fact, on behalf of the Holy Archaeological Synod, I did not speak on my own behalf about the subject of which the congregation is currently discussing. The Holy Archaeological Synod of the SPC has trust in the maturity and responsibility of the MPs, who are obliged to care for the integrity and unity of the country. If, for God's sake, it turns out that's not the case, which I don't believe in, the Holy Synod would be at the disposal of democratic mechanisms for putting forward attitudes and adequate appeal. Personally, I believe that the framework and the criterion of Vojvodina's autonomy represent the RS Constitution. I am convinced that the vast majority of the SPC and Serbian citizens think the same in general. "I simply don't think that after this text there is any more need to say anything, until I appeal as an MP, first among the equals, on arguments, facts and truth, and political charges and the tendency to actively participate in the debate can be understood. A lie cannot be tolerated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31671	The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic. The time available to the DSS is two minutes. (National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica, MP Aleksandra Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31672	So thank you to the first among the equals, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, for giving me one creamworth that I will now use here. In this building, in this assembly 72 years ago, in the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the votes of Serbian MPs were voted in the Treaty between the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the Holy See, known as the Concordate. Both SPC, both the professional public and the general public were against it. But Serbian MPs raised their hands for something that was obviously a damaging act of state interest. (Zoran Krasic, from the site: Anthema is thrown. ) At that time, the patriarch, blessedly resting Mr. Barnabas, commented and said this, "A shame to the headless Serbian gentleman." Otherwise, that day, when the Concordate was voted in this building, was the last day of Mr. Varna's life. (Zoran Krasic, from the scene: It was bloody lithium. Keep that in mind. The letter says that it is believed that the statutes of the Vojvodina will also be adopted in the framework of the Constitution. The question for you -- how do you interpret the fact and the question for the most responsible party of the DS, that the first elected statute is an ultimate act, which was sent to this assembly, and only 13 months later, a passed law on determining jurisdiction, as a consequence of the ultimatum that came from the duchy wing of the DS? What's in line with the Constitution? Is Serbia a Serbian state and all its citizens under the Constitution? What is written in the statute -- that Serbs are a national community? Find me in the Constitution of Serbia where there is a term "national community". There are Serbian people and there are national minorities. You allow this statute, and that's why the League of Social Democrats...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31673	Two minutes. (Zoran Nikolic, from the scene: The League of Social Democrats, so she came with you. ) The word has a National MP Milan Vukovic, followed by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Group ZES... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because I believe that the Honorable President of the National Assembly has hurt my dignity as a National MP. So, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, a letter I read yesterday was published on the official SPC website on February 6th 2009. That's the letter you got. In an almost identical text, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic received the letter and received the government of the Republic of Serbia. I got the information, and I apologize if it's not true, that on behalf of Sinoda SPC, that letter was signed by Bishop Bucky Iriney. I repeat, I apologize if it's not true that he signed it, but there is a letter. On 7 February 2009, all daily newspapers in Serbia brought information: "Politika", "Pres", "Kurir", "Blic" etc. You have a whole series of politicians' statements, including from your party -- what they think of the letter from the Sinode SPC. So it's true and let it remain recorded for history, that the SPC has warned you that you are on a path leading to the destruction of the state. I apologize again if I said, probably because of the wrong information, that he was signed by the bishop Bucky Iriney, but he did sign it by the Holy Synod SPC and you know it very well. The same letter was received by the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic. Do not remember a lie with Serbian citizens that the letter does not exist. The letter exists, it's authentic, only we don't know for sure who signed it. I apologize again to the bishop Backo, if I got the wrong information that he signed it. There's definitely a SPC behind this letter. After all, check on their official website.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31675	National MP, your explanation for the violation of Article 104 is a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In your explanation, you did not support anything that Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, a national MP, told any untruth. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: The letter exists. On the contrary, you apologized to the bishop Irinea for falsifying the National Assembly yesterday. (Zoran Krasic, from the scene: The insult is not a matter of fact. ) I ask the People's MP, Zoran Krasic, not to throw it away. This is a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. You asked for the right to receive a word on the basis of article 100, and you found that your dignity was injured, because Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's MP denied the truth. Then, in your explanation, you confirmed the truthfulness of the allegations from Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic's public statement. It is a difficult demeaning of the National Assembly, a reputation for the National Assembly. This is a violation of the reputation of the National Assembly, and since you have already given measures of warning, first and second in this session, I give you a measure of taking away words. The People's MP... Dragan Todorovic... (National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic threw her shoe in the direction of the presidency. ) National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic has compromised the order at the session of the National Assembly, by an act that implies the position of Article 2 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and I give her a measure of distance from the session, which punishes any MP who physically violates the physical and moral integrity of the National Assembly. I ask the MP Gordan Pop-Lazic to leave the session hall, to respect the reputation of this assembly and to leave the sitting room. Since National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic does not want to leave the session hall, I ask the National Assembly's service that, after I set a break, I would say "a shoe" to which MP Gordana Pop-Lazic violated the reputation of the National Assembly, find and deliver to the MP, because the subject is her property. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes and we'll continue the session at 1140 hours. The word will be given by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, as MPs Milan Vukovic and Aleksandar Jugovic changed the order of the place. [[After break – 11,40]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31677	Dear Members of Parliament, MPs, the chairman, for the last three days, we have been discussing two acts, a bill establishing the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and the Statute of Vojvodina, and it is our constitutional obligation to declare them. This is certainly not disputed and it is not disputed that these two acts can give only those powers established by the Constitution of Serbia, no more or less jurisdiction than is prescribed by the Constitution. If we think that creating autonomy with strong powers is a right to decentralisation, then it's a delusion. In this way, Serbia can get two centres and there will be centralisation again, as people living in municipalities are totally whatever their boss is, whether Novi Sad or Belgrade. So, the Serbian Constitution envisioned a real decentralisation in a provision saying municipalities have their own property, their original incomes, their taxes. This is important because the municipality is a fundamental social unit in which citizens exercise their rights. To remind me that by the time Milosevic arrived, the authorities of the municipality from their budget had funded both education and health care and culture. The extension of the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Region does not result in a fundamental decentralisation. The question is why, after three years of adoption of the Serbian Constitution, no law on municipal property, or the law on the return of municipal property, although it is prescribed by the Serbian Constitution that the municipality has its own property and that a special law will be passed. For example, the building in which the congregation of the municipality is still owned by the state. Where is it in the world? Even when the road is made of self-dependence, the owners are not municipalities and citizens, but state. All of these are reasons why the SPO advocates maximum decentralisation and administration of competence and property in the hands of municipalities. So, once again, I would like to stress that all the cities in Serbia and all the municipalities in Serbia must be essentially in the same position as Belgrade and Novi Sad. On behalf of the Serbian Renewal Movement, I urge the Serbian government to pass a law on the return of municipal property after an urgent procedure in the assembly procedure, because it is the only true way to decentralisation Serbia and economic prosperity of Serbia. There is no dispute that the SPO is consistently favouring the decentralisation of government and the even regional development of Serbia, deeming this a prerequisite for effective functioning of the state. Political development is more than necessary to bring Serbia back to life, as Serbia must be whole strong. To be fair, Serbia is south of Belgrade poor. If the granting of higher powers to the AP Vojvodina is only the first step in decentralisation of Serbia as a whole, then the move is acceptable to the SPO. To be clear, Serbia's dedegradation is yes, the new sadisation of Vojvodina is not. Euro regions are the regions of the Serbian state, and they are not states or parastates. Serbia has and can only have one capital, which is Belgrade. Bringing back property laws to municipalities in Serbia is one of the most important laws this parliament must adopt as soon as possible. Serbia must develop evenly. Under Serbia, I also mean AP Vojvodina, and in order to have an evenly developed Serbia, municipalities must have their own budgets, their original incomes, taxes and property. At a time when demetropolisation, regionalisation and politic development are the main principles on which modern European states rest, Serbia is being swept into political, economic, financial, cultural, media and all kinds of monopolies in Belgrade. Today, Spain has 17 regions, 50 districts and close to 10,000 municipalities with its budgets and development policy. There are 12 similar regions in Finland, in France 22 regions, 101 departments and about 40,000 municipalities. Mali Slovenija has six regions and about 200 municipalities and Croatia has 20 counties and about 500 municipalities. Serbia has no functional region, and the number of municipalities is the same as four decades ago. These municipalities were seized with an anti-constitutional blow in the mid-1990s, their right to income from business space, the right to employment of people, even the right to diameter and cadastre. The will and will of Belgrade's central offices depends on how much money the municipality will share. Three quarters of total financial capital, both domestic and foreign, turns to Belgrade. Even in the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, only a sad reminder and comparison, there were 35 municipalities in the area of today's Wooden Municipality, and Leskovac himself was a Serbian Manchester. This distribution of power and capital gives birth and the growing hatred of Serbia towards its capital. Belgrade is seen as a bank robber, not only Belgrade, but everyone in Belgrade. I believe that decentralisation and even regional development are the path of Serbia's recovery that we must fight for. We have received assurances from coalition partners that the adoption of a law that is on the agenda is the first step on that path.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31678	Six minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The ZES parliamentary group is available for 43 minutes. The word is by MP Sasa Maksimovic, and the time available for the parliamentary group Forwards Serbia is five minutes. After him, MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31679	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, instead of looking at the Statute of the Vojvodina as a problem of good organisation of state and decentralisation, we are actually in a situation to be more concerned about a sublegal act like the Statute of Vojvodina. Regardless of the ruling majority's efforts to convince us that this is the statute, and with it, the bill on the transfer of jurisdiction, in fact a certain kind of decentralisation, that's not the case. It's nothing else, and there I have to agree with the previous speaker, rather than the newly-soldication of Vojvodina, or perhaps a more appropriate expression would be a new sadism. In any case, the new sedation of the Dukes is not necessary. The question arises whether Vojvodina's autonomy is only sought because Serbia is "economically exploiting" Vojvodina. When in fact our duchess, I say our duchess, because I'm a Vojvodian, when our duchy politicians have said anything in public about the difficult situation of agriculture, which, in any case, deals with the largest number of people in the Vojvodina area, what is the price of cereals, what is the price of corn, what is the price of oil, what is the cost of artificial fertilizer? When, for example, will a new job be opened in New Vienna instead of all the factories that are closed? There's only one company in New Vienna that works, I don't mean these small companies of five and ten workers, I mean something bigger companies, like 50 or more workers. There's only one thing, and there's one cramp. That is what the people of Vojvodina are interested in, not whether their centre will be in Belgrade or whether it will be in Novi Sad. They don't care. Vojvodjan politicians seem only to have money in their heads, which will in any case be used by a small number of people and a small number of settlements in Vojvodina, and our villages will, unfortunately, continue to fail, disappear, because there is no different situation now. What happens after receiving autonomy, we should look at some history books, but not those written during Joseph Broz, but those before and after. Anyone who doesn't learn from their past should know that the second time the price is much higher. If we already need some political regions, or so on. The middle level of government and administration should then be implemented on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, which could then be called some kind of decentralisation, but not this. The SNS advocates decentralisation in terms of strong local self-government, not in such quasi-sustainable solutions. Citizens and citizens of Vojvodina, to use your expressions, should first and foremost reflect on what this statute is giving them. Whether it's a improvement in their lives or actually a complete administration parallel to the state, where they're going to have to pay both the province and the state administration. I don't see the reason for another government or the ministry, or the secretariat, it's absolutely irrelevant what they're called. Who would actually like to pay two administrations, when we can't really pay this one to the common forces, both Vojvodina and Serbia together. Of course, this province government and the quasi state apparatus of the province will pay only the Dukes. To tell you the truth, all of this looks like a classic Serbian curse to me – let everyone be the boss in their house, we don't care about everyone else. The statute as it is before us, unfortunately, must be confirmed or individual parties will leave the coalition. What does that mean for DS? That means the DS is losing power and the new elections are there. With a catastrophic economic policy, a constant reduction in the purchasing power of citizens, that means, after new elections, and the departure of the DS in history. In the most direct contrast to the Constitution is a provision under which the territory of Vojvodina cannot be changed without a referendum on which 50% of the population of Vojvodina would come out. This is a very dangerous and completely unnecessary provision. Does this mean that if a local government introduced such a provision into its statute, after a referendum that it would hold, it had the right to change the boundaries of the municipality, to detach from something, or to attach anything? Of course, you'll say you can't, because the change of boundaries of municipalities is regulated by a special law. That's right. I'm sorry, I hope you won't include this time. [[Applause]] As I said, that is true, but the issue of changing borders within the framework of the Serbian state is regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution stipulates that changes in territory are decided by citizens of Serbia, not by citizens of one of its works, no matter what part of Serbia. So the highest legal act of a state, not some sublaw act, is what the statute is. What you will only manage to do with this statute is to confrontation the citizens of Serbia, noting Vojvodina as if the citizens of Vojvodina were exploiting other or less worthy citizens, although the truth is actually different.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31680	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to inform you that part of our session today, beginning at 12.00 hours, from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly, will be accompanied by the delegation of the Chinese Association for International Understanding, headed by Mrs. Van Ji Gen, Vice-President of the People's Committee of the Chinese People's Political and Consultative Conference and the Vice-President of the Chinese Association for International Understanding. Some remarks on the behavior of the National assassin, we wish you a very war welcome and that you have a prize stay in Serbia, holiday visit and please come back again as soon as you can. Thank you. National MP Milan Vukkovic has a word. After that, MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31681	Given the course of today's debate and what's been going on in the O.R., and also the time that's left and which is short, and respecting that my colleagues are going to talk after me, I need to tell you just one thing. I'm not from Vojvodina. I'm a Kragujevcan. I'm a Serb by nationality. I like to write with Cyrillic and write. I consider myself a patriot, and I will vote in peace of mind for both the jurisdiction law and the confirmation of the statutes of the AP Vojvodina. Unfortunately, since we have had such a discussion, that MPs have been called to speak, you do not hear me colleagues, I will try louder, since we have been called to declare whether or not the adoption and confirmation of the statutes is public, name and last name, I am now saying that I will vote for patriotic reasons: because the Statute of Vojvodina is good for Serbia. Why is it good for Serbia, I'll explain it to you. It is not Vojvodina's selfishness, Vojvodina wants to be organized in accordance with the Constitution, that those tasks that it can do best for itself are done. Everything good for Vojvodina is good behind Serbia. The greater economic development that needs to come out of the new statute will contribute... You're waving at me, mate, not... faster economic development of Serbia. All taxes and contributions paid in the territory of the AP Vojvodina are in the register of the Republic of Serbia. It's a common budget. Therefore, all that is good for the development of Vojvodina is also good for the development of Serbia. It's good for Kragujevac too, it's good for all the regions in Serbia. The fear of regionalization is the consequence, on the one hand, of misunderstandings, and on the other hand, I'm afraid, of evil intentions. Here, for three days, a theater has been performed that needs to be dacuminated, as a good drama should be culminated, shot or incident. Risking getting a shoe in my colleagues' head, I tell you, the statute is good for Serbia, the statute is good for all citizens of Serbia, the law on jurisdiction also. We should all calm our passions, vote our consciences. Voting by conscience, I repeat, not as someone who lives in Vojvodina, but someone who lives south of Belgrade, I will vote to confirm the statutes and the jurisdiction law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31682	Two minutes and 35 seconds of MP time were used. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31683	Dear Madam Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, here are two days of day-to-day political interpretations of the law on the transfer of jurisdiction and the statutes of Vojvodina from ideological rather than legal premises, which is Nada Kolundzija, head of the parliamentary group, obviously and showed one parallel analysis of constitutional provisions and constitutional solutions. So, not one millimeter more, not one millimeter lower than the constitutional framework, or what the Vice-President of the Assembly would say, Mr. Novakovic – just as well. The remarks that have been made are primarily political, not legal. What's this about? It's something called securitisation issues. When you have nothing to say about education reform, health care, state administration, society as a whole, then you need to find some topic in which you will find someone you will call a traitor, a secessionist, an opponent of Serbia, etc. Then you're turning the subject from what is the insatiable need of this society, which is that the topic of reform is imposed as a key topic in this society and it's true and true patriotism of the 21st century. In this line of demarcation of those who will vote in favour of the draft statutes and the proposal for a law on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, there is one line of demarcation and there are three groups that dispute these two documents that need to be adopted, the law and the statute. First, they say openly that they are for unitaryism as ideology and say: if they had written the Constitution themselves, Serbia would be a unitary state. I don't want to argue with them at all, it's their legitimate right and, believe me, no one thinks that any other argument, except rational, challenges their beliefs. It is up to Serbia to assess how a unitary state run by the Central Country Authority would function, and it is obvious that some cannot give up communist beliefs, because as was once the Central Committee of the Communist Union, which determined everything, there should be only one central country administration that prescribes what kind of regulation should be in the whole state. So I wouldn't waste any more words on them. Serbian citizens know very well who they are dealing with, cheap pulsism and demagogues that have cost this country very dearly over the past 20 years. Another legalist approach has problems with inconsistency. I have here a professional study – 'Prizma', January 2003, I am sorry that Mr Samardzic is not here, where he says - the DSS proposal represents the form of a regional state within the framework of a constitutional concept, in which the legitimate relations between the ideas of a civil liberal and decentralised state are overcome. The regions participate in the central legislative authority and have, pay attention, to their authentic decentralised legislative authority. It's just one example. There's even a photo here. There is no confusion in calling someone Slobodan Samardzic, so it is not this Slobodan Samardzic, who today contests any need for the autonomy of Vojvodina and decentralisation of Serbia, and once advocated that regions in that proposal of the DSS constitution also have legislative authority. Third ideologically, they haven't been profiled yet. They know they're against it, but they still don't know why. Serbia has waited 20 years to understand that they have followed an ideology that makes no sense on the threshold of the 21st century. We do not have time to wait another 20 years to realize that Serbia must be a regionalised state and that it must be a decentralised state. On one case alone, I will dispute, yesterday their head of the parliamentary group said here - what will the Vojvodine Development Bank do? I wish we had a developmental bank in Kragujevac, and in the King, and in Chačka, and Apatino, and in Shid, and in every city, that we might have a development bank. I'll tell you what centralised means specifically on this case. The verbas that was once by personal income, then in that former Yugoslavia, was among the five, most of the 10 municipalities, because he was a food giant with Vital, Carnex, Sugar, Medel, and not to mention other companies, he had his own development bank called the Vrbas Base Bank. This basic bank, Vrbas, has made it possible to develop the whole region and has been one of the most economically powerful areas in the former Yugoslavia, which we today call the Western Balkans. What happened? Under a political order by centralising everything that exists, Vrbas Banka had to join the Belgrade Bank. The Belgrade bank went the way it went. She went bankrupt. Today, the Vrbas municipality, 3,000 square meters of business space in the centre of Vrbasa, which was built by the citizens of Vrbasa with their hands and with their money, must be financed from the Bank's Bank's bankruptcy and recovery agency to buy the property they built with their money and their own hands. It's something called centralised in action, gentlemen. Those who earn, I have to tell them one remark -- the mind is like a parachute, it only works when it's open. You need to open yourself up to all this and think a little bit more about where you want to take this Serbia. Otherwise, here I am particularly offended as a Serb, whose mother comes from Drina, and my mother from Morava, and I was born in Vrbas, that here they are named as the bad Serbs who will vote for the statute and who will vote for the law on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina. Gentlemen, let me remind you that some Serbs, such as Dositej Obradović, Sterija Popović, Branko Radčević, Đura Jakšić, Jova Jovanovic Zmaj, Stevan Sremac, Isidor Bajic, Paja Jovanovic and Veljko Petrovic, Petar Konjović, Milos Crnjanski, Mihailo Pupin, and I could count much more, but I will not take up time for my colleagues. It's legitimate to be a nationalist. It occurred to me, a moment ago, when she was interrupted. Wise Claudius Magris said - the extreme right is patriotic, but more often and prefers to shoot at his fellow countrymen than on the side of the occupiers. Indeed, there were gunshots here in terms of words, and some objects began to fly according to a different opinion. This kind of intolerance really wouldn't wish it ever happened in this high house again. Let me tell you something, when we're already talking as some of the elements of Serbian nationalism, it's 923. Stanoje Stanojevic wrote -- Vojvodina is a typical representative of Serbian nationalism. In the Serbian people in Vojvodina, Serbia was the greatest ideal each served. Everything that was Serbian was good, beautiful, heroic and noble, but it was neither chauvinistic nor imperialistic patriotism. It is tolerable to anyone else, with respect for all sides, which is good and respectful. The Serbian people in Vojvodina loved Serbia, as parents who love children, with all faults and shortcomings and such Serbian nationalism and patriotism radiated from Vojvodina to all other parts. Unfortunately, after 100 years, the air has not reached some today who are declared Serbian nationalists. Finally, we will support decentralisation which does not mean disintegration. From a democratic point of view, it means increased participation of citizens in public affairs. From a state point of view - strengthening state integrity. decentralisation is the only right to defend every separatism, because if you don't take someone's jurisdiction, which he will do better in a better way in the benefit of citizens at some lower level, whether it's local, rural, regional level, he has no reason to object to any center.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31684	The used time of the parliamentary group is 8 minutes and 25 seconds. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of... (Milos Aligrudic, from the place: Replica... No, you have no right to a replica. The People's MP Mirko Cikiriz has the word, followed by MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31685	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the SPO as the right-hand side of the list of ZES in the Corps of Enlightened Serbian Nationalists, want to see Serbia rich economically, with a perspective for all its citizens and for all its parts, and completely decentralised. For this reason, in the day of voting, we will give our vote for the adoption of the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, because we are for decentralisation and strengthening of the province, regional and local self-government and their wider powers in relation to the central government. The supervision of central authorities, as we understand it, should focus solely on the control of constitutionality and legality, while extending the jurisdiction of local self-government, the province's self-government, should not endanger the unity of the state or territorial integrity. Here, in the absence of arguments, they heard every reason why they should not vote for the statute. One of them is the question - what will happen after the adoption of the statutes with Fruško Gora? The Fruska Mountain will be where it has been since the world and the century and while it is sacred and century, only the management of the Frusch Mountain will be taken over by those who live on Frusk Mountain and around Fruska Mountain and who are alive interested in making the Fruska Mountain look better and more content than it is today. Five or six years ago, a political stance with which the SPO fully agrees, and that is not our political party's position, but we have nothing to take away or add to this position. It is said: “There is almost a public legal consensus in Serbia today about its decentralisation. The consensus is relatively high because the reasons for decentralisation are not only required in one factor, such as its relative ethnic complexity but also in many other economic, historical traffic and communication reasons. All of them are united by the idea of greater efficiency in the decision-making of lower bodies than the central government, as this would make the government closer to the citizens and thus subject to their better influence and control. “ This political stance has one flaw, with which the SPO disagrees, which is that regional authorities, according to the draft constitution proposed by the 2004 DS, should pass laws. The SPO disagreed with this last view and therefore we do not understand this abuse of such a sensitive issue, which is sensitive in all countries that went into two processes first. For example, Spain and Italy have tried for centuries to run their provinces, cities, etc. unite into one unique Italian or Spanish state. One centre showed that life in its countries could not be well regulated, and then those countries had a number of separatist movements, the most pronounced of which were in Sicily and Sardinia in Italy and northern Italy, and in Baska and Catalonia in Spain. However, regardless of what was severe political debates on how to regulate best relations and decentralised central government the biggest resistance in Spain was to decentralisation by fascist Franco, calling for traditional Spanish values. Traditional Serbian values are just European values, because at a time when our top state officials signed the cross, because they were illiterate, when they carried Turkish fesses, the Serbian authorities knew at the time to send their elite to school in European centres. They also brought European ideas with schooling in Serbia, and with these European ideas until Communism arrived, Serbia made economic progress, spread its borders and was always on the right side in major world disputes. Only after the arrival of communism and the relic of communism does Serbia receive its sunflower and constant collapse. One of the conditions to regain Serbia's strength and influence is precisely in its comprehensive decentralisation, opening up a perspective for all its citizens and all its parts, and therefore the right-hand side of the List for European Serbia, which is made up of enlightened nationalists, will vote for these acts in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31686	From the time of the parliamentary group, 5.20 minutes have been used. Since none of the MPs declared in order no longer want to exercise their right to address the National Assembly, there is no longer any sign of word on the lists of MPs. Before the search is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93, want to do so. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk letter from Nada Kolundji, president of the ZES parliamentary group. Time is available for 2.35 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31687	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to say that the ZES parliamentary group will vote in favour of a decision to confirm the AP Vojvodina statutes for several key reasons. Because it is our constitutional obligation and we want to implement the Constitution consistently, because it is the citizens' interest and we are ready to always work in their interest. We will vote in favour of this decision because we deeply believe that decentralisation of government is the best interest of all citizens of this country, because we also believe that by respecting the Constitution, by confirming this statute and by passing the law, we confirm the unity of the Republic of Serbia and its integrity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31688	Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the proposing representative, MP Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, want a final word? No, I don't. I'm concluding a unique search. Having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on a proposal for a decision to give prior consent to the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSITION OF THE LAW About UTVRĐIVANJU DESCRIPTION OF AP VOJVODINA (individence) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Aleksandra Janković, Zlata Djerić, Aleksandra Ilic, Srdjan Spasojevic, Tomislav Nikolić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Babić, Igor Bečić, Jelena Budimirović, Božidar Delić, Stefan Zankov, Oto Kišmarton, Milan Knezević, Sasa Maksimović, Zoran Mašić, Predrag Mijatović, Draga Miražna Miladović, Žaljanaković, Žaljanažić, Mirjavić, Božalna Postić, Milja Polja Pok, Gojko Radić, Gojko Radić You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislative Committee and the Government's opinion on the amendments. In writing, the amendments were withdrawn: Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jankovic, for the addition of new members 5a, 5g, 5d and 5dd, together Aleksandra Jankovic and Zlata Djeric for the addition of new members 5b and 5v, together Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic to Article 8, a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group, all amendments are submitted on 20 November 2009 and on members 16. 17. 35. and 64, submitted on 23. November 2009, together Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Đerić, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic on Article 3rd item 5, together Velimir Ilic, Radoslav Mojsilović, Srdjan Spasojevic and Milutin Jelačić on the title above Articles 48 and 48, and the title above Article 49, which they submitted on 23 November 2009, together Milos Aligrudić and Donka Banović on Article 8 and together Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Aleksandar Pejčić and Milan Dimitrijevic on Article 8, and Zlata Đerić and Aleksandra Ilic withdrew their signatures from the amendment to Article 76, so that the only applicant of this amendment Srdjan Spasojevic. On the basis of Article 148(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative Committee rejected as incomplete amendments to the Members of the People's Parliament: Aleksandr Martinović, by the name of the Bill, the title of the Head and above Article 1 and Article 1. 1, together Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic, Milutin Jelicic and Radoslav Mojsilovic to member 3 and a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group to member 17. On the basis of Article 148(3), Rules of Procedure, these amendments will not be discussed and will not be voted on. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we move on to a review of the Bill's proposal in particular by amendment to Article 1, I would like to inform the National Assembly that we will use today's regular break between 15.00 and 16.00 hours. By 15.00 hours, we will do a search in detail, or a debate on amendments, and after a break at 1600 hours, according to Business, the last Thursday of the month is the day for members of the government to come to the Assembly and ask parliamentary questions, which will take up to 19.00 hours. In the course of the session, we will be informed in time. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31689	Article 1 is deleted and replaced by the words: "This law lays down the original and trusted competences of the Autonomous province, the property of the AP Vojvodina, the means of exercising trusted competences, the authority of the Republic of Serbia in the control of the exercise of original and trusted competences, and regulates other issues of importance for the position of the AP Vojvodina". A year ago, as many as 64 academics, dozens of prominent citizens, university professors, cultural and public workers supported this position and sent an open letter to the president, both the government and the Serbian Parliament, calling for the state to be stopped. A NGO has urged MEPs to prevent Serbia from dispersing again in the following way. The NGO is expressing great concern about the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Serbian state, which is firstly severely damaged, we hope only by the temporary, violent kidnapping and occupation of KIM, then by trying to make the AP Vojvodina a new state in Serbia. The proposal for the province's statutes is counter-constitutionally awarded by the characteristics of statehood, which is intended to attach a special national identity to the Vojvodina Serbs. As the proposal for the Duke's Statute begins new deployment and destruction of the already reduced and crippled Serbian state, by the decision of Sinod, meaning this NGO, on behalf of Patriarch Paul and SPC, please present the memos and requests at the Assembly meeting, where this issue would be discussed. Hoping that MPs would pay attention to him and that this apparently anti-constitutional act would deny their consent and confirmation, the letter to Parliament Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic wrote. A letter of similar content was sent to the president of Serbia and the Prime Minister. It is a letter read by a fellow SRS counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic, not knowing, of course, since most of the statement by Sinod is drawn up by the bishop Irinej Baki, whether or not he signed it, but that letter is not a falsification, it was realistically sent to the president of the Serbian Parliament the moment the proposal for the Vojvodina Statute entered the assembly procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31690	People's MPs, please return to the subject of the agenda. Article 103: "The MP is obliged to speak on the subject of the agenda". Your amendment is to Article 1 and the amendment assumes amendments and additions to Article 1, so please respect Article 103 together.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31691	Now should I keep talking about that amendment or should I put a patch on my mouth? You know what, Mrs. Comic, what's certain and what I'm about to do now is call on the citizens of Serbia to come and attend the vote in front of this federal assembly, their home, means the former Federal Assembly. The moment the vote begins, you are obliged to provide the people with a video-bid so they can monitor how his Serbian MPs vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31692	People's MPs, I warn you to return to the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31693	It's a very important topic. You don't communicate with people.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31694	It is your duty to speak of an amendment to Article 1. Citizens and citizens of Serbia and yours and our joint invitation to attend sessions was arranged by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of course they are free to follow the work. This is an institution that is completely open to the public and this is the home of the Serbian people and all citizens living in Serbia. Please return to the agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31695	I really think people should be present for the vote. When we watch all of Serbia's games together, which the Serbian people wouldn't see...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31696	People's MPs, you're reminded of Article 103, so you've been warned to speak on the subject of the agenda. The topic now on the agenda is the search in particular of the bill and I reminded you to return to the topic when you tried to discuss whether Bishop Iriney signed a letter or not and when you tried to talk about who should follow the vote. Please do not participate in the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do you want to continue the exposure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31697	It's possible that this way I'm discussing, is it possible that you know my entire formal period, since childhood through early youth, has really been tied to this northern Serbian province and to Sainta. There were only four Serbian houses in that street of Preradovic -- my grandmothers, my neighbours Council and Milan Pontic and Pajtic's houses, with well-educated children named Bojan and Neven. These are four Serbian houses whose TV antennas were turned towards following Serbian television, while others were facing Hungary. My whole family on my mother's line, including my grandmother, and my aunt, and my sisters about my aunt, she spoke great Hungarian "on the ion" because she taught him as a mandatory language at school. Unfortunately, I only got over swearing, because it got on my nerves, which I hear in every store instead of a good day, "Ion's wet," "steak." I didn't understand why my father and I were marked as Serbians, that's what - your mother is nice, but she married a Serbian, and why my grandmother recommends that I come from a field trip by writing postcards in Latin because mailers won't want to bother with Cyrillic. I would almost agree that we "Vojvodjans" are different from the rest of Serbia if not for all my relatives, friends and acquaintances who were as different as those Vojvodjans, who lived in Montenegro, Knin, Herzegovina, Macedonia, Kosovo and even Slovenia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31698	National MPs, with full respect for your family, ask you to bring this into contact with the text of the amendments which reads (an amendment which you have submitted): "This law establishes the original and trusted competences of the AP (hereinafter referred to as the AP Vojvodina), the assets of the AP Vojvodina, the means of exercising trusted powers, the authority of the Republic of Serbia in the control of the exercise of original and trusted competences, and regulates other issues of importance for the position of the AP Vojvodina". That's the text of your amendment. Please bring your discussion into contact with the text of your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31699	I'm bringing her in right now. You're the only one who won't let me go through with it. I started through the personal and we come to what is important, which is that the programme of governmental autonomy of Vojvodina, all mentioned by our dear autonomists hotly or incessantly implemented, was founded long ago, meaning half a century ago, in November 1958, by the Salzburg Declaration of the Vojvodina Movement, which was signed by Dr. Eugen Jocic, Prof. Adalbert Karl Gauss and Prof. Dr. Cornel Filipović. The statement first lays down the principle of equality between all ethnic groups in Vojvodina and federalism, with the rejection of ideas of any state-of-the-art people, as various ethnic groups, Serbs, Hungarians, Krauts, Bunjevci, Shokci, Romanians, Slovaks and others would aim to synthesize into one Vojvodina nation. Thus, Vojvodina would be a federal unit of a wider Central European Federation that would, and what else, be an integral part of the EU. Any similarity between the Salzburg statement and the current intentions of the Vojvodina separatists is by no means random, especially at the level of the claim that the European Vojvodina would have entered the EU as an independent region long ago, that it was not stopped by retrograde Serbian forces on the road. That is why it is necessary for the new state of Vojvodina to have its special new identity, with a unique of course the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, a Latin letter that separates the Vojvodina from such a primitive Cyrillic, which identifies the Serbians. That is, Mrs. Komic, the essence of this amendment, and my message to the citizens is that they must come and attend the vote on 30 November. I guess he'll know what time it is, on the plateau outside this house, which is their home. And if we lost Kosovo because of the Cypriot separatists, Serbian parliamentarians decide on Vojvodina. The people have the right to see how their MPs vote. So, folks, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31700	Four minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 18 MPs of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? It's a lot easier when you put your card on. You don't have a card? I can't give a word to anyone else's card, because the stenogram will be in conflict with what I say and what the MP says. National MP Jovan Palalic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31701	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 1, we, unlike the representatives of the government who proposed this bill, wanted to give the definition of an autonomous province, as stated in the Constitution of Serbia. Yesterday, we had lauded about it, and we felt that the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina had left out the constitutional definition that Serbia was the state of the Serbian people and of all citizens living in it and that it was an autonomous territorial community, and yesterday we criticised that concepts such as the "region" were introduced and that Vojvodina was an Autonomous Area of Citizens and Citizens, we wanted to define it precisely, to see clearly in this law which determines the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Province that the AP was part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, Article 1 reads: "The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina is an autonomous territorial community established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, guaranteeing the constitutional equality of the Serbian people and of all the citizens and ethnic communities living in it." The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the regulations adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the broadest possible way, guaranteeing the rights of national minorities throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but we wanted it to be in this member who defines the Autonomous Province, that the Constitution of Serbia and the constitutional provision that the state of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and other citizens living in it, so we also want to define the AP Vojvodina as an autonomous territorial community in which the constitutional equality of the Serbian people and all other citizens is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31702	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31703	Thank you very much, with an apology for my mistake. So here we are with Article 1. I just wanted to say something first about the amendment that will be tabled by the DSS, i.e. before we explain this amendment to Article 1, which was given by colleague Jovan Palalic. Her MP club, on this proposal of the statutes. Regardless of what this proposal is about to determine the jurisdiction of an act that is almost impossible to improve, because it is both procedurally and contentally wrong, we said that it came out of the statutes, instead of coming out of the Constitution, that it has a large number of non-constitutional provisions etc., so regardless of the facts we set out specifically before, and in part yesterday in the discussion, the DSS will try to simply change the blood of this law, to change the number of amendments enough to make it agree with the Serbian Constitution. It's his main task, as well as any legal act. Therefore, the DSS will table 76 or 77 amendments. More than 90% of the members are subject to the amendment of the DS parliamentary club, all in the intention of making this law a consistent and unanimous constitution of Serbia. Of course, the whole problem that arises with us is that this law stemmed from the statutes and most of this law, which indeed determines the competences of the AP Vojvodina, is not, therefore, authentic competences that arise primarily from those areas of jurisdiction established by the Constitution of Serbia by its Article 183, but stems from that part of the Vojvodina Statute on the competencies relating to this particular subject. Therefore, in the next presentation, we are going to amend not only these few first members, I am counting on Article 9, where this law determines mostly general norms when it comes to the transfer of jurisdiction, meaning the standards that precede the very part of the transfer of jurisdiction, but mostly later, numerically, quantitatively, that large number of norms, members of this law that really determines the competences of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31704	Since the time of the authorised representative, two minutes and 40 seconds have been used. Does anyone want a word? If not, MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? You're not registered in the electronic system. Here you go. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31705	This is the first amendment that the SRS has submitted to this bill, we have come from Article 2 and we are reporting for the first time. I'm going to take the opportunity to point first of all at those legal reasons that question whether there's even a constitutional basis for this type and this is the look of the proposed law. At first, I would like to ask the public who is following this transmission, because I can influence the public, and to change the views of MPs who are in my party bar, which means that the public understands what it is. Yes, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia speaks of province autonomy as the right of citizens, but the same constitution also speaks of citizens' rights to local self-government. The same constitution stipulates that it is a guarantee for all human rights, so why not say about democracy, the Republic of Serbia, not the local community, the beekeepers' association or the association of those who put a yellow helmet on their heads. Let's see in what sense this province autonomy should move. Autonomy is some kind of synonym for something called freedom. Now we're talking about freedom in one territory compared to what? What does that greater freedom need? Then we come into a situation where we have no answer, because if that freedom is needed in relation to the entire Republic of Serbia, then the Republic of Serbia is not free, so someone in some territory needs that kind of autonomy. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, when it uses words -- an autonomous province, uses them in plural. Take care when you think of the autonomous province as the only one that there is plural, or now to use something that exists in some other languages – "double". How did the Constitution prescribe this province's autonomy? It's like the right of citizens. The constitution took account of the fact that centrifugal and centrifugal forces in the Balkan area. The constitution had in mind that experience - which the snake burns he fears and the lizard fears. In the principle debate, you had the opportunity to hear the political attitude of the SRS and one reference to history and secessionism, and separatism and all possible excuses used to cover the essence. You are bound by Article 177. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that certain issues, not areas, which can be achieved in a meaningful way within an autonomous province, take place in an autonomous province, provided that these tasks are not subject to the jurisdiction of the Republic, because when we say the Republic, we think of state authority, it has exclusive jurisdiction and it depends on how this jurisdiction will be exercised. Please do not pursue a local self-government that is not a government, a province autonomy that is not a government, from a state government that is concentrated on a republican level, where all attributes of statehood and even a monopoly of physical coercion, and even the judiciary, where the division of power is manifested. That's where you made a big mistake, that's where you got it all messed up. Of course, you were deliberately mistaken. You have mistaken the next thing, that the Constitution also states in that Article 177 that the law sets matters of the province's importance. Please, when you say a question of regional importance, then it's not jurisdiction, it's not the whole area, it's just something in some area. You could have taken two things from the agriculture area, three things from the water industry, four things from the sports field, and you took it, you went even into the banking system. We just had a chance to hear about the basic bank in Vrbas, but the MP forgot that his authority had passed the Banks and Financial Organizations Act. The state can no longer be the founder, the province can't be the founder, and you stole the development bank from Metals Bank. How? By withdrawing its deposits from the Autonomous Region, questioning the liquidity of a bank, he came to the aid of a governor who imposed temporary measures, and then, in a closed procedure, the same province bought shares as founding capital, which is prohibited. And yet you trick Milk Stimc, thanks to the Ministry of Finance, to give consent to one such closed way of buying shares. It's a crime, there's no other word to say. Why can't it be done in Kragujevac? He can't because he doesn't comply with the law. It wasn't even in line with the law in Novi Sad, but you've already done your dirty work. Speaking of which, let's take fresh examples for the past 20 years of what's been going on with us. In fact, the definition of state has changed. Here are some examples. Montenegro has its own central, call the bank, but it does not have the responsibility, it does not broadcast its own money, but has come to a certain amount of euros in commercial transactions and use the euro as its own means of payment. The Development Bank and Pajtic can do the same, since they need to cover up little of those funds and what they've been doing these past few years. So the central bank is not an integral part of the definition of something called statehood. Montenegro didn't have customs in 2000 either, so it unilaterally took a job. She had no right to the army either, so she formed the Seventh Battalion. Isn't that right, Mr. Ljajic? How did you write the statute? You wrote the statute as a constitution, preamble text without calling to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Statute is a general act, but it's not a constitution. Another great truth, Mr. Ljajic. By agreeing to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, since the Constitution has prescribed the previous consent of the National Assembly, the statute then becomes a complex legal act, as two independent entities participated in its adoption. The derans playing there and writing something, in the event of a vote of consent in the National Assembly, means that two authorities participated in the adoption of something. You can't amnesty your responsibility for these things. Let's take it in a row. What did you write in this law? Trusting in a job. You gave both first-degree and second-degree state affairs to the authorities of the autonomous province, but then.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31706	Eight minutes and 50 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) A group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31707	It is about Article 2 which needs to be completely changed and which, according to the amendment tabled by the DSS i.e. her MP club reads as follows: "This law establishes the original and trusted powers of the AP Vojvodina, the assets of the AP Vojvodina, the means of exercising trusted powers, the authority of the Republic of Serbia in the control of the exercise of original and trusted competences, and regulates other issues of importance for the position of the AP Vojvodina". So, after the first article, as we formulated it in the first amendment, where the correct definition of AP Vojvodina was given, so different from the one in the law and the statutes, simply systemically followed by a member who actually describes the subject matter of this law, lists everything that this law should regulate and everything that is regulated in its latter text. It sets out that the law lays down the competences, determines the means, determines the mechanisms of supervision and thus makes one rounded whole of this member who, as I said, systematically follows and logically behind the first member. Article 2 of the Law, which we are trying to amend by this amendment, is actually very scarce in terms of the description of what the law needs to pass. Legally and systematically deficient, but it does not lack one position, one provision that should not have at all, systematically, a place in another member of one law, especially one of these laws. That provision, that position in Article 2. The bill reads: "The law-making process will take care of the level of citizens' rights achieved in the province's autonomy". It turns out, you see, by the system of this bill, as one of the most important things. After that dive definition in Article 1, which we had to amend with our amendment, comes a really missing description of what the law needs to pass and then, in the third position of the other member, you have something that is politically important in this moment for the AP Vojvodina, which is to take care of the level of rights achieved. So, there is some preconceived fear that the rights of citizens to rural autonomy, which is constitutionally right, in this case the right of the citizens of Vojvodina, who are later appointed in the statutes and in the law as some constitutional category, and in fact unconstitutional and unconstitutional, that these rights will sometimes, perhaps immediately or in some foreseeable time, be reduced, reduced, annulled by some of the functions of the state authorities or some laws, etc. Which may be the worst, this provision is actually just copied from the Duke's statutes. It is one of the primary wishes of self-defense of the usurped rights that the Vojvodina Assembly afforded itself when it adopted the Statute of Vojvodina on 14 October 2008. Now these usurped rights are perpetuated by an attitude that already integrates into Article 2, which means that we have drawn a line here and no one can come to us here anymore. It is an attitude that has a purely political and even worse day-to-day political meaning, and it has no place at all in this law, and especially in Article 2(2) of this law. That's why our amendment doesn't mention anything like that at all. This article is written in a correct, neutral, systemically logical way and therefore we believe that it is far better in this place than it is with Article 2 in this proposed bill of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31708	Three minutes have been spent using the time of an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31709	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Progressive Group has submitted an amendment to Article 2 and that Article 2 is deleted, and paragraph 2 states that the law-making process will take care of the achieved level of citizens' rights in the province's autonomy. If the same article in paragraph 1 states that the AP Vojvodina. in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Statute. arranges jurisdiction, choice, organisation and work of the body and services it establishes, then we think this is completely unacceptable and attitude 2 is simply an excess, because if it remains, it may pose an obstacle to any future amendment to this law. One can be called on to make certain provisions of this law, when it is fully implemented, and it is estimated to be both anti-constitutional and ultimately causing damage to the citizens of RS, not to be allowed and to say that it is a level of citizens' rights reached. So, from some future province government to be challenged by amending the law. We do not think that there is a need to stand at this stage of the adoption of this law, and we ask the promoter to consider our amendment and to assess the purpose of accepting our proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31710	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31711	The New Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment that deletes the member of the 2nd. It is already practically said that this second position – in the law-making process will take care of the achieved level of citizens' right to province autonomy – is completely unnecessary because it is something guaranteed by the Constitution. In fact, this member is also designed and designed to support the Statute of the Vojvodina and the idea of the sovereignty of the "citizens" of the Vojvodina. Although Serbia's Constitution determines that Serbian citizens are the holders of sovereignty and that before the Constitution and the law, all are equal, the statutes of the AP Vojvodina constitutionally creates the sovereignty of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina and the following anti-constitutional provisions - a provision on the right of citizens and citizens of Vojvodina to achieve, cultivate and protect autonomy, already in preamble; by determining that the holders of the rights to the province's autonomy are citizens of the AP Vojvodina in Article 4. Proposal for a Statute. By order of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, they shall exercise their right to province autonomy directly, through a national initiative or a referendum and through their freely elected representatives in Article 5. Proposal for a Statute; replacing the constitutional prohibition with the constitutional prohibition of discrimination against citizens in Article 20. Proposal for a Statute, taking measures by the province's authorities to achieve full equality between minority national communities in Article 20. Proposal for a Statute. By replacing the constitutional provisions with the constitutional guarantee of the levels of human rights achieved in Article 23. Proposal for a Statute, declaring that the province provides for the achievement and protection of human and minority rights, which is reserved only for the Republic under the Constitution, in Article 23. Proposal for a Statute; by providing additional and supplementary rights and protection, i.e. a higher level of protection for individual categories of persons living in the AP Vojvodina in Articles 21 and 23. Proposal for a Statute. For these reasons, in order to achieve the sovereignty of the citizens of Vojvodina, this Article 2 of the Law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina was made. All that I was talking about, the unconstitutional nature of certain provisions of the statutes, is, in fact, an analysis of Dr Vojislav Kostunica that you had the opportunity to read in various media and in "The Seal", which clearly speaks of the separatist nature of the Vojvodina Statute. Furthermore, as far as citizens' rights to rural autonomy are achieved, if these citizens are truly dissatisfied once again, I call on them to come and express their dissatisfaction in front of the House of the National Assembly on Monday 30 November, so that the MPs who voted for autonomy will either congratulate or reprove them, because they now live in a shortened state that does not have a southern province, and now they will not have a northern one.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31712	A minute and 20 seconds have been used by the MP's group. Before I ask if anyone else wants a word, I would like to inform the MPs that the SRS parliamentary group will be represented by MP Zoran Krasic in particular on the 1st agenda. Anyone else want a word? If not, on Article 2 of the amendment, with a correction, a group of 12 MPs of the LDP parliamentary group submitted. The government and the Constitutional Affairs Committee have accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment with the correction legally possible, so I find that this amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Rangelovic, using the time of the parliamentary group or the authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31713	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, our amendment is such and aims to improve something that is already becoming a constitutional category. Obviously, we have achieved this goal, in line with the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has accepted our amendment and that the Government has accepted our amendment, and has become an integral part of the law. So I won't overexplain the meaning and meaning of our amendment. We of the LDP have already repeatedly shown our relationship with the way the Constitution was written and adopted, according to what the Constitution contains, but we have shown our relationship to the hypocrites of all those who participated in writing, the adoption of such a constitution, who supported it and ultimately organised the referendum theft. I would no longer really talk about it, I would just add that once we have such a constitutional legal situation, it is necessary to improve it, since we already have such a situation in Vojvodina, it is necessary to regulate the applicable laws. Similarly, this is the LDP amendment. In the LDP, we believe that this bill, as well as the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, introduces a number of new mechanisms into the legal system, and thus our amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law of this kind. I am once again pleased that the committees of the National Assembly and the Government understood the content and importance of our amendment and that our amendment was accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31714	Two minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 2a be added after Article 2. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31715	Mrs. Comic, I wouldn't miss the pleasure of explaining the amendment again. Article 2a shall be added after Article 2a: The Autonomous Province of Vojvodina shall carry out its original and trusted competences, taking care of the development of its area and the preservation of its properties. Any direct and indirect discrimination between the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on any basis is prohibited in the conduct of operations under the jurisdiction of the Autonomous province of Vojvodina, particularly on the basis of race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other beliefs, property, culture, language, age and physical disability. This is just another confirmation that neither New Serbia nor the Democratic Party of Serbia, nor the other parties that belong to the national bloc and which are defined for democracy, cannot be included in the order of the clerofastic parties, because they very much advocate the ban on discrimination, and we think that this amendment was necessary because we also passed a law on the prohibition of discrimination during the previous period. I really find it unclear why an amendment, which actually sets things straight, is not adopted, but I believe that when the people arrive on November 30th, at 10:00 p.m., outside the House of the National Assembly, they will be able to appreciate the amendment that New Serbia has submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31716	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Ms Radet, submitted to the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31717	Respected Serbian citizens, Serbian radicals speak only to you today because we are sure that you will understand and understand what we are telling you, and what the regime of Boris Tadic is actually preparing for Serbia, and that is why his regimes here are trying to silence us. Article 3 is part of the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Determining jurisdiction, the title itself is an unconstitutional category, but unfortunately our amendment that we have submitted in this regard is not accepted, they say for some technical reasons. No, respected citizens, it's not about technical reasons, it's about trying not to tell you, and especially you, dear citizens living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, to say that the regimes of Boris Tadic by this law, as the title says, determine the powers of the AP Vojvodina. They establish some new powers that do not exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. These new powers, this law and statute, can seriously jeopardise the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, can be the basis for some hotheads to decide that all of you, respected Serbian citizens living on the AP Vojvodina, break away from the Republic of Serbia. We Serbian radicals, taught by the historical facts we talked about in the principle debate, are rightly afraid, and therefore we want to warn you first of all Serbian citizens, because we know that talking about those who cooked this up is not really what they came up with, but those who carry out other people's tasks, we know that it's pointless. Now, as regards the amendment to Article 3. Article 3 is one of the more dangerous members and talks about the interregional co-operation of the AP Vojvodina, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, although these Tadics say the amendment does not accept because the proposal is in accordance with Article 181. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course not. It is true that article 181 speaks of the co-operation of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, but not in the way that the AP Vojvodina is foreseen here, as it writes, to conclude regional agreements within my jurisdiction. What's the jurisdiction? What kind of interregional contracts are these? How can a part of Serbia called AP Vojvodina do that, and not part of Serbia called local self-government, for example. This is what we Serbian radicals claim to be the opposite of the Constitution and that it is fortunate that we have the Constitutional Court, and we do not have, because we only have two-thirds of those, you know five judges proposed by Boris Tadic and elected by the assembly majority, and five proposed by the assembly majority, and elected by Boris Tadic. We do not have a third-third of the Constitutional Court and therefore those who plan to start further splitting the Republic of Serbia can do so because, unfortunately, we do not have constitutional protection, we do not have a Constitutional Court. The only thing we have is this place where we address you and you, the respected citizens of Serbia, who we are convinced you will never allow anyone else to destroy the state of Serbia in any way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31718	Two minutes and 30 seconds of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Articles 3 and 3 and the proposal to add a new Article 3a, the amendment was submitted by a group of 19 ambassadors of the DSS. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31719	We are making an amendment to Article 3. In the text of the draft law, Article 3 is dedicated to interregional co-operation. We don't think it's the place of this member here. We also have an amendment to this article, which we will present later, and we believe that Article 3 should regulate other matter and I will now read how Article 3 should read in this law. Normally, the title, this current - interregional co-operation, is deleted because matter is different. The article reads as follows: "The AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as the Constitution), the law and the statute of the AP Vojvodina (hereinafter referred to as the Statute), governs the jurisdiction, choice, organisation and work of the bodies and services set up." After that amendment 2 to Article 2, which spoke of the matter that the law should regulate and counted all the elements of that law, it is natural for one member to come to indicate what the task is, which is to regulate the jurisdiction, choice and organisation and work of the bodies and services that it establishes. We think it's a systematic position here, not in Article 2, as it is in the bill of law that we're trying to change. After Article 3, a new Article 3a is added, which reads: "Ap Vojvodina carries out its original and trusted competences by caring for the development of its area and the preservation of its properties". That's attitude one. Item 2: ''In the conduct of affairs under the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, any direct and indirect discrimination of citizens of the Republic of Serbia is prohibited, on any basis, and particularly based on race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other belief, property, culture, language, age, mental or physical disability. ''This first position simply gives one principle standard on the obligation of the AP Vojvodina when it fulfils its constitutional and legal obligations. The second standard, in paragraph 2, stems simply from one need to establish the principle of banning discrimination on Serbian citizens. Why in this particular place? Because Serbia and with the autonomy that has been constitutionally determined is in the governing view of one asymmetric state, a state with asymmetric administration. It may happen that part of that state, which has the properties and characteristics of the AP, feels that some rights are regulated differently than the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia require. This different regulation of rights can lead to the inequality of Serbian citizens living in one AP and the rest of the country, as it can lead to, at worst, discrimination. Simply, this is one norm that prevents such a thing from happening in the entire content of this law that norms the position, status and jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31720	Two minutes have been used by an authorised representative. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, she tabled group MPs from the 21st National MP of the "Forward Serbia" group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, together with colleagues from the Progressive Serbia-SNS Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 3. Proposal for a law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Just look at Article 3 and the position of the 3rd bill, so that a man living inside Serbia, in the Raška area, as I live, feels uncomfortable, to feel inferior. With this famous 3rd member, all of us citizens of Serbia who live south of Sava and Danube have been further humiliated because you have stated that only the AP Vojvodina, as a region in which European principles and values are traditionally nurtured, can be a member of European and world associations, regions and within its jurisdiction, can establish representation in the regions of Europe, or Brussels. It's terrifying that you're additionally dividing Serbia. Wasn't it enough for you to divide into partisans and Chetniks, stars and partisans, that we now share in those who traditionally cherish European values and those who don't traditionally cultivate European values? Calm Serbia, gentlemen of the government, don't share it, don't argue with us further. The third member of this bill raises several questions – what is the state or scientific body that has established in which parts of Serbia traditionally cultivates European principles and values, and in which it does not? Is it the fruit of research, or was it a simple congregation survey? What exactly are European principles and values traditionally nurtured in Novi Sad, Sombor or Vrbas, rather than in the Kingdom, Nis or Valjev? Does this mean that Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic, from Kruševec, is a national MP from the list ZES, a smaller European than my colleague Igor Becic, a member of the SNS? Does this mean that regions where the first class of citizens, traditional Europeans, live, have some special rights, such as the Brussels House? Isn't that, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, an eclectic example of discrimination? Speaking of Brussels, let's imagine a situation where Brussels is openly blackmailing Serbia tomorrow that it must recognise Kosovo if it wants to join the EU? Will Vojvodina then also refer to its special tradition of fostering European principles and values and continuing on the European path? How many times did you from the DS, investing in minor political parties from Vojvodina and their only physical and no longer huge leaders, without whom you could not crack this government, say that Vojvodina's locomotive is going to take Serbia to Europe? Will the final implementation of this law arise in a situation where blackmail wagons will not be able to enter the EU, and the locomotive will, of course, continue there on its own? That is why I invite you to accept this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31722	A minute was used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? If not, the MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a message from Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31723	In front of the New Serbia parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment to the 3rd member to address international and inter-regional co-operation. We asked that in this article, which has three positions, a second and a third position be deleted, believing that already when we have this 1st position, which is very clear – the AP Vojvodina is working with the relevant territorial communities of other countries, within the framework of the external policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for territorial unity and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia – the second and third positions are completely excessive. The second and third attitudes in fact encourage what Mr. Ceda Jovanovic mentioned in the plenary session, those fears, generate those fears that exist in Vojvodina. Secondly, we from Vojvodina do not want what counterpart Zoran Babic spoke of earlier, that someone in another part of Serbia feels uncomfortable because we live here and that we are who we are. This law, most of its members, is precisely the attitude it seeks to encourage, develop and develop in the rest of Serbia that mild envy and mild enmity towards the citizens of Vojvodina, and you must know that we are very bound as a people and all other, blood, family and significant human ties throughout Serbia. This is a law that is problematic to each member. That's why, of course, we won't give him a green light in the voting day, which you won't mind. We will see how much attention the citizens of Serbia will be, but these two positions of this member could have been left out. I think they should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31724	Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MP, Verica Radet, submitted to the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31725	Respected citizens of Serbia, Article 4. The draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in the first position provides that the territory of the AP Vojvodina constitutes the territories of units of local self-government in its geographical areas (Bačka, Banat and Srem). This is completely contrary to the law on territorial organisation, this completely changes the image of the Republic of Serbia. It also includes municipalities, i.e. local self-government, Zemun, Surcin and New Belgrade. Banat, among other things part of the Palilul municipality, will become Vojvodina by adopting this law and will also become part of that territory that someone apparently intends to secessionistally break away from the Serbian state. The position of the fourth member says Novi Sad is the capital of the AP Vojvodina, and lie to you, respected citizens of Serbia, those who say that with their amendment they have changed that fact and that Novi Sad is not the capital of the AP Vojvodina. Under this law and by the statute, it is. It says so, it says -- the town of Novi Sad is the main, administrative center and headquarters of the AP Vojvodina organ. Last night, not of course in this place, but in one show we heard one of Boris Tadic's satellites, which was clearly and highly provoked, apparently said - yes, Novi Sad is the capital of Vojvodina and yes, we stand for the Vojvodina Republic. We Serbian radicals think it's very dangerous and that this law, a member by member, should be deleted because those from the government did not want to withdraw this law. That's why we made the motion to delete article 4. Unfortunately, we do not expect those of the regime to adopt it, but it is good for you citizens to know, you citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who live in Surcin, Zemun, Ovca, Borci, New Belgrade, that from Monday, when this law is passed, you will become Vojvodjans, as they say popularly -- that means, in the future, that you will eventually also be those who will be separated from the Republic of Serbia. Also, all Serbian citizens should know that this Article 4 that does not want to be deleted by representatives of the Boris Tadic regime is promoting another capital city in Serbia. There are no two capitals in one country anywhere in the world. The state of Serbia has the capital of Belgrade, as of Monday and the AP Vojvodina will have the capital of Novi Sad, with the will of the ruling Rays, which only fulfils the tasks of its Western mentors.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31726	A minute and 40 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of the 21st People's MPs, the Prosperity Group of Serbia, submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party has submitted a series of amendments wishing to correct this bill. In particular, Article 4 refers to territory, the symbols of the AP Vojvodina. We believe that a very bad solution has been given in the proposal, and what bothers us most in this article, of course, is the referendum, that is, the possibility of a referendum establishing territory within the AP Vojvodina and territorial issues being voted in general with only a quarter of the APV voters. So, the law makes a commitment that it is enough, that the referendum will succeed, that more than half the voters come out, means 50 plus one, and that, of course, the referendum is voted by most of that half, which should mean that only a quarter of the Vojvodina voters can decide tomorrow on territorial issues when it comes to APV. Our proposal is clear. We count that in order for a referendum to succeed, we believe that it is in the interest of the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia, that is, for the success of the referendum, it would be necessary for 50 plus one voter to vote for a decision, for some draft decision, and that this is the only right for the majority to determine that a question, which is on the agenda, is in the interest of the majority of the citizens of Vojvodina. That is why we have submitted this amendment, where we have merged Article 3 and 4 into a single member, who basically has that purpose. As far as territory is concerned, we also believe that there is no place in this article to list geographical areas and that clearly territorial units should be listed. We're on our way. Instead of Backa, Banat and Srema, we literally listed all territorial units in Vojvodina. It is already under the applicable law of all of us and, as we know, it is known to the citizens of Vojvodina who are territorial units. There was no reason why they should not enter such an important law for the citizens of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31728	Twenty seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the amendment to Article 4 was submitted jointly by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31729	Article 4 of this law speaks of the territory of the APV and that is what we have indeed, in these two days, tried very hard to draw attention to both the public, and Parliament and the Government, to what is inadmissible in this law. It says - the territory of APV is made up of the territory of units of local self-government in its geographical areas (Bačka, Banat and Srem? established by law. First, the contents of the Vojvodina look a little different when you divide it into these three units, because these units are geographically interpreted a little bit wider. It was said yesterday that part of Banat belongs to Romania, that there are parts of these territories that are in some other countries. We, as far as I know, except for some inadmissible means, cannot exercise our right to them. Furthermore, the APV territory cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens, expressed in a referendum under the law. We know that the referendum is a constitutional issue, with the Constitution regulated. This article is directly suggested that it can be changed and that it can be changed and who should raise the issue of changing the territory of the APV. Who has the need to solve this territorial issue with such a law at the moment that we are defending Europe without borders in the 21st century. Every day, a Europe that clears certain borders between itself allegedly imposes on us the strictest criteria and introduces borders between us, the borders between Serbs in Vojvodina and Serbs in Serbia. The Berlin Wall is down, we're gonna make it look like some brand-new walls.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31730	Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 19 MPs of the DSS Group proposed to one amendment to Article 4 and to add a new title and a new Article 4a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31731	Therefore, Article 4 concerns, according to the title of the bill, the territory and the symbols of the APV. This article is, as it is written, completely unconstitutional in every attitude and it must change. According to our proposal, according to our amendment, it should read as follows: "The APV territory is made up of units of local self-government established by a law regulating the territorial organisation of the Republic of Serbia. The APV territory cannot be changed without the consent of citizens expressed in a referendum, in accordance with the law. The APV has its coat of arms and flag, whose appearance is governed by the APV Assembly's decision (hereinafter referred to as the Assembly). The coat of arms and flag of the APV maintain its membership to the Republic of Serbia. The use of coat of arms and flag APV is governed by the Parliament's decision, in accordance with the law." Namely, this position 1 on the determination of the territory of the APV is in line with the Constitution and the Law, and it is the only one in line with the Constitution and the Law on Territorialisation of the Republic of Serbia as opposed to the proposal for this law, which mentions geographical areas, and then the territorial units of local self-government within these areas. That is, therefore, a provision and definition that is not identical in any case, and according to some significant interpretation, is falling away from the attitudes of the relevant Serbian Constitution and from the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia. Article 2 on the territory of the APV, which I have read as our proposal, therefore it appears to be in line with the appropriate position of this bill. It should be noted here that in the Statute of Vojvodina in the Proposal for Statutes of Article 3(2), you do not have this provision - that territory cannot be changed without the consent of citizens expressed in a referendum, in accordance with the Law. So the statute is not in line or this proposal that you gave us to discuss yesterday is not in line with the bill you gave us to discuss the day before yesterday. We simply draw attention to that fact, because the Statute of the Vojvodina and the law on determining the jurisdiction of two things or two sides of one thing, I would even say -- one older act, like a mother, and one younger act, as a daughter, by replacing them with the role, so here the daughter gave birth to the mother, not the mother's daughter. So the statute gave birth to the law, not to the law of the statute. As for the flag and coat of arms provision, it is in accordance with the Constitution, however, we believe that this law should bring a closer provision and say that the coat of arms and the flag of Vojvodina should reflect Serbia's membership. So some visual reflection of the relevant symbols of Serbia, and of the law, and of the flags and coat of arms, must be found in both the flag and the coat of arms of the Vojvodina which this law must determine. Namely, before the coat of arms of Vojvodina, which was given a few years ago, has not one single symbol of Serbia or the coat of arms of Serbia, and the flag of Vojvodina that we see very often in recent days, it is actually a flag that has only frames of red and white. This red and white colour of the flag of Serbia serves only as a framework for the flag of Vojvodina, blue in the middle of three stars is something that reflects EU membership, if that is the case. Vojvodina is neither a member nor has any organisational and legal relationship with the EU, except for some political orientations towards it. Therefore, it is really necessary in this case. Finally, the DSS proposes to add Article 4a to one title, i.e. Inter-regional co-operation of the AP Vojvodina. It's a member who follows systemically behind these so far. In the case of the law he is a Article 3, here interregional co-operation is practically a Article 6 or 7, if we look at those 3a, 3b and 4a that we added. So this article is completely unconstitutional and instead of this unconstitutional formulation, which we have been discussing for the last two days, we propose a single formulation that will be in line with the Constitution. It reads as follows: The AP Vojvodina is co-operating with territorial communities and other forms of autonomy from other states, within the framework of Serbia's foreign policy, with respect for territorial unity and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. That's attitude one. Item 2: Co-operation with relevant territorial communities and other forms of autonomy of other states of the AP Vojvodina is achieved through membership in the European and world associations of regions, mutual visits, fraternization, the creation of mixed bodies in matters in which it is competent, the conclusion of the Memorandum of Cooperation and Trade Protocols, with the prior consent of the Government. Item 4 - For the sake of more efficient and economical implementation of co-operation with territorial communities and other forms of autonomy of other countries, all the necessary assistance of the AP Vojvodina is provided by the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Serbia abroad. You have completely unconformed attitudes. Article 181 Serbia's constitution envisions co-operation of local self-government units and territorial autonomy with relevant units of other states. It's contained in us. We believe that this co-operation can be achieved through the forms that we have listed here, not through interregional agreements, which represent some kind of international contract. However, such capacity of Vojvodina cannot be achieved under the Constitution of Serbia, and that is where we cited at least four or five possibilities of form and co-operation. What may be the strongest, most important, is the memorandum of co-operation and trade protocols. It's extremely common to so-called. regions, as a general name of all these units in Europe, can have that kind of relationship. What may be even more important is that both such protocols and memos, the Serbian government must approve, must give consent, because it is simply a standard in Europe. This type of co-operation between these sub-central units, whether it is possible that federal units such as Germany, Switzerland, have the possibility of international co-operation, and even international contracts, these contracts must pass the supervision and consent of the Federal Council in Switzerland or the Federal Government in Germany. It's just a standard we have to use, too. Finally, that provision in the draft law of Article 3 which says that representations can be established in the regions and Brussels, therefore, extremely unclear, is simply being resolved here by imposing diplomatic and consular representations of Serbia to provide any assistance in carrying out this co-operation, therefore, Vojvodina with appropriate units of autonomy and local self-government in the world. It is a rational solution, which does not raise any doubts about any pretentiousness, etc., which is used by the diplomatic administration and the whole of the Republic of Serbia's ensemble. He's been deployed all over Europe. It's not just about embassies, it's about missions and consular representations that are spread across Europe. So it's the simplest way to do business, not double it, and make some kind of parallel quasi-diplomatic bodies over these representative offices that we've had a chance to see and hear in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31732	This used the time you had available as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, and the total time available to the parliamentary group is 25 minutes. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31733	Just a few sentences, to relate to what our colleague Slobodan Samardzic was saying. In addition to the clarified legal debacle created by the introduction of this standard of international co-operation of the region, one of the basic problems, with a symbolic aspect, the introduction of such co-operation through international agreements or the establishment of representations that are limited only to Europe and the European countries, practically means the following - by introducing into our legal order of this institute, for the level of autonomy that we have, of course, is not in line with the Constitution through this law, but it has come out of the framework of the Constitution, another remethyling factor is being introduced symbolically. In fact, it is trying to say that if the AP Vojvodina can conclude international agreements and be at the headquarters of international organisations of the regions, then it will be on a flat foot with Bavaria, Styria in Austria, Germany, etc., with cantons in Switzerland, so that it will practically be psychologically viewed as being in the level of federal units. Our legal order had to protect our country from such an opportunity in some elegant way. To clarify, we are not against the international co-operation of our autonomy in Serbia, it must take place in accordance with Article 181. The Constitution, the problem is that these really go far beyond the borders of the constitutional framework and the protection of the integrity of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31734	One minute and 40 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31735	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for sitting down, but since I have the Constitution and the law and the amendments in front of me, it is simply impossible to speak and stand at the same time. Why is this amendment unacceptable? So, above all, from the point of view of the Constitution and what the Constitution has opened as a possibility of content of provincial autonomy. The amendment suggests that when it comes to the referendum, therefore, the content of the amendment is to reject the word "their citizens", so the referendum is defined like this -- the AP territory cannot be changed without citizens' consent. And the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 182(4) says - the territory of autonomous provinces cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens expressed in a referendum in accordance with the law, and that definition has literally been transposed into this law. Therefore, the territory of the AP Vojvodina cannot be changed without the consent of its citizens expressed in a referendum, in accordance with the law. The amendment contains a provision under which the symbols of the AP Vojvodina by this law, other than what the Constitution has given as a right to an autonomous province, limits. Thus, the Constitution says in Article 183 that autonomous provinces determine the symbols of the province and the way they are used. No state body or any special law has been established to restrict the right of the AP to establish its symbols and the way they are used. The amendment submitted requires that these symbols be consistent with the symbols of the Republic of Serbia. So whoever wanted to do it like that could have done it with the Constitution, this is how the Constitution gave the undisputed right to the autonomous province that it was self-organizing its symbols and way of using them. When it comes to inter-regional co-operation, what is the content of this amendment is that it is required that forms of inter-regional co-operation can take place with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 181, reads: "Autonomic provinces and units of local self-government co-operate with relevant territorial communities and units of local self-government of other states, within the framework of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for territorial unity and legal order of the Republic of Serbia." Therefore, the constitution did not require that certain forms of inter-regional co-operation could be achieved only with the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What it says in the jurisdiction law is a literal copy of the definition of the Constitution. So: “AP Vojvodina is working with relevant territorial communities of other countries, within the framework of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, with respect for territorial unity and the legal order of the Republic of Serbia.” So the basic text of the law is in accordance with the Constitution, unlike the amendments, which restricts the constitutional rights given by the Constitution and guaranteed by the Autonomous Province.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31736	Hope Kolundji's MP used three minutes and 55 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31737	I'm just going to rephrase for a little bit what my colleague Kolundji said. I'll start with this last one. Please read article 181 carefully and try to recite it. There's no mention of interregional agreements here. There's only a possibility of co-operation here, and you don't have a single word for interregional agreements here. So, first statute, so the law simply introduced a category of interregional agreements that do not exist in the Constitution. So you're completely misreading article 181. There's no record of that. If we already allow forms of co-operation to exist, that co-operation takes place in the form of some agreements, we have proposed some different forms, not interregional agreements, then these forms must go through the consent of the government. That makes sense. It therefore imposes on this position on agreements obligations for such a type of co-operation that is implemented by agreements to be approved by the Government. It's the logic of things. So, in the Constitution, you don't have a category of interregional agreements, they're made up by statute and law. As for this attitude around the coat of arms and the flag, therefore, around the symbols, yes, the Constitution is extremely general. He says – The province determines the symbols. Why would the law not be able to make such a provision any closer, since the law is a higher act than the statutes? You're the one who came up with the logic of the procedure that you've accepted. So, first the statutes, then the law. Since the statutes said the same as the Constitution, then we will determine the symbols of the province as we will. It's simple, the law prescribed it. We think logic is different. We act as if the law precedes the statute, so we wrote amendments, so we wrote that bill that never came to this assembly, from April to today. So we went by the logic of writing the law first, because that's how Article 183. The constitution requires, and then the statutes are written. When things go in that order, which is both time and legal logic, then the law can determine the provisions of the Constitution in terms of this or that thing. In this case, we find it legitimate that the law determines this closer, in a way that these symbols must be in line with the symbols of the Republic of Serbia. What different would they be?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31738	The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31739	I do not dispute that you have the right to say that this law could limit the Constitution of the prescribed jurisdiction of the province, I can agree, it may be a subject, but if the Constitution did not in any word restrict the law of the AP Vojvodina to establish its symbols and the way they were used, then we would, by this law, narrow down the law given by the Constitution. It can be a topic and it's not something we can argue about, whether it can or can't be a topic, I'm just saying that if the Constitution gave that authority to the AP Vojvodina, then we don't feel that the law should narrow down that right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31740	One minute. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 19 MPs of the DSS group and the People's Parliament of Verica Radeta submitted to the title above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31741	Respected Serbian citizens, Serbian radicals have asked the ruling majority to delete Article 5. Proposal for a law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Article 5 speaks of mutual relations between the Republic and the province authorities and, among other things, provides for a mixed commission, as if it were already an interstate commission. The government did not accept this amendment because, according to the government, solutions are proposed in accordance with the Serbian Constitution and the system laws governing the organisation and way of work of the government and the state administration system." It is in this government's reasoning that the essence of what we have been claiming for two days is the problem with the existence of this law. In fact, officials have been avoiding commenting on Article 137 for days. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and we're talking to them about it, is talking about the so-called Trusted business. It is what has been present in the Republic of Serbia since the Constitution of 1990. Therefore, there are certain republican competences and the Republic and its competences to individual laws, within a given area, can be entrusted to local self-governments and autonomous provinces. If that were done then, we would certainly not have any objections regarding the constitutional basis of such laws, because there are already a large number of laws in the Republic of Serbia that regulate the confidence of local self-government businesses. For example, parent-booking is a republican business but is entrusted to local self-government. The issue of building permits is a republican business, but is entrusted with a special law by local self-government in the work of issuing building permits up to, say, 400 m2 etc. So, there are a number of jobs that are regulated by different laws that regulate a particular area and that fully constitutionally trust a part of their business or certain affairs to local self-government, or autonomous provinces. But no, this is not about that, this is about establishing new powers of the AP Vojvodina, which Serbian radicals are most strongly opposed, primarily because of the unconstitutional nature of this law, and of course a step further because of the fear of secessionist aspirations in the territory of the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31742	A minute and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31743	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the most dangerous member of the bill to determine the authority of the Vojvodina. We have already debated here for two days what jurisdiction the AP Vojvodina receives, i.e. which powers are entrusted and entrusted by the Republic of Serbia to the AP Vojvodina and, of course, we said that the way of this trust, the scope of these transactions is something that is absolutely controversial. But when the Republic of Serbia trusts the powers, which are originally its, originally its, then for the protection of the legal order, the exercise of those powers entrusted to another level of government, such as the autonomous province, it involves mechanisms of supervision and response in cases of violations of the law and the exercise of those powers. What do we have and where is the key danger and the disturbance of the entire order in the Republic of Serbia? You trust jurisdiction, but Article 2 restricts the possibility that tomorrow the Republic of Serbia will return some of these powers, because you say – when this law determines which powers are entrusted, then the Republic of Serbia can no longer return. For this large number of competencies that cannot be returned, you are not overseeing the way it should be done, using the instruments that the Republic of Serbia has. This is most seen in the position of the 3rd member, who says – because of the legal, successful and uninterrupted conduct of operations under the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, the Government, but not on its own, but on the initiative of the executive body, forms mixed committees where it is discussed whether the law is applied or not. It's a disaster. It is something that completely disrupts the legal order and hierarchy of the Republic of Serbia's organs. We have defined this particular jurisdiction in Article 8, not to negotiate, but to suspend the enforcement of a general act by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if it violates the law, and to establish an individual act on it, and to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. There is nothing to negotiate with the AP Vojvodina whether or not the law is applicable or whether it is legal, but it is suspended and the procedure is being initiated. This is a dangerous act. Please accept this amendment and delete it from the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31744	Used 30 seconds of MP time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS in this article has seen a series of illogicalities. If the promoter already wanted the relations between the republican and the provinceal authorities to be governed by one member, we understand that and we believe that the first two members were quite enough to stress that mutually they were governed by the Constitution, the law, the statutes, so the rights and obligations of the AP Vojvodina authority are regulated. For SNS, that's enough. We think that the third attitude given creates a lot of confusion in this whole article, because at least two illogicalities are being detected. One of my colleagues has already talked about, that the AP Vojvodina in the formation of this permanent mixed commission, which may be a problem on some issues between the province and the government, needs to be resolved by the AP Vojvodina initiative to form the commission. This is an illogicality that can cause a lot of problems in solving these problems that will certainly be, because life is a problem, problems are solved if it is in good faith. If there is no goodwill, the AP Vojvodina is in a situation where it can block the formation of this mixed commission and that is what we think is one big illogicality and a big problem in this attitude. We have another illogicality in us, that is, the fact that a permanent mixed commission can be established. A permanent mixed commission – it is clear that it is a single permanent body that, when it is established, it works, there is no need for the law to leave the possibility that it can or cannot be established. Either we need it or we don't need it. If necessary, then this word "can" is unnecessary, so it should have been clearly defined by the law that we need a permanent mixed commission, it is being established and it is doing its job to bring the Republic and the province into line. But if we don't need a permanent commission, then we need to make it clear. Eventually, a temporary mixed commission can be established to discuss some issues, but it is entirely illogical to establish a permanent mixed commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31746	35 seconds of MP group used. Anyone else want a word? If not, MP Aleksandra Jankovic submitted an amendment proposing that new members from 5a to 5f be added after Article 5. The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. I'm sorry if I didn't read it correctly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31747	It's not f. It's j. A, b, v, g, d, ð, is still in official use in Serbia Serbian and Cyrillic, and it goes from a to ð, not f. That's the first thing I wanted to say. Secondly, if you had really had a good will and intentions, you would have simply passed a law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina submitted by DSS and New Serbia seven or eight months ago. But since your intentions were actually the dispersal of Serbia, you did what you did. My amendment, which is from a to dj, concerns the relationship between the republican and the provinceal organs. In order not to convince, since the text is too large, it is practically about the supervision of the constitutionality and legality of the work of the AP Vojvodina, the constitutionality and legality of the general acts of the AP Vojvodina adopted in the original competences adopted in trusted competences, the supervision of the consistency of the general acts of the AP Vojvodina with the statute, the supervision of the execution of general acts adopted in the original and trusted jurisdictions. I suppose that doesn't mean much to the citizens of Serbia, besides, in the procedure you see that I too had to withdraw the amendment because I'm really not an expert in writing amendments, I'm a psychologist and I'm probably qualified to become president of Serbia. This job of writing amendments and MPs is quite difficult for me. But I have consulted someone who is truly an authority in that area, whose name I love to mention here because they always cause that kind of reaction. Of course, it is about Dr Vojislav Kostunica, who actually explains why this member was actually created and why this Article 5 was left out, a clearly defined relationship between republican and regional authorities. The intention is actually the federalization of the state. Although the Constitution of Serbia determines the Republic of Serbia as a unitary state, with two autonomous provinces, which have only the status of autonomous territorial communities, the proposal for statutes, except that it sets out the elements of the statehood of Vojvodina, allows the federalisation of the state to the following anti-constitutional provisions: the taking over of certain responsibilities of the Republic, which according to the Constitution cannot have an AP Vojvodina, such as regional development, the establishment of the Vojvodina Development Bank, agrarian policy, environmental protection, science and technological development, the establishment of a famous Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, official use of languages and letters, the proposing of a network of courts on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the adoption of opinions on changes to the Constitution relating to the position, rights and duties of the AP Vojvodina. By taking over state functions, such as taking over the executive function of the Republic and temporary regulation and enforcement of the Republic's laws, in Article 30. The bill of statutes, it's something that's unconstitutional. Furthermore, it is unconstitutional to regulate the mutual relations between the province and the republican authorities on the principle of equality, consensus and the possibility of creating a mixed commission, composed of representatives of the republican and regional authorities. It is so given in Article 28. The draft statutes and in Article 25 - regulation of the possibilities and trust of their own original competences of national councils of national minorities. On that behalf, I call on national minorities to come to the House of National Assembly on 30 November at 10.00 p.m., to tell them what they have to say to their representatives about their vote for the law on determining jurisdiction and the Statute of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31748	Two minutes and 20 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 6 and 6 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Group of Members of Serbia and the People's MP Verica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment tabled by the MPs of the Progressive Group of Serbia envisions the removal of a complete member of the 6th from this law for one particular reason, which is Article 6. The bill refers to MPs of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and that they cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished because of an outcast opinion or voting at the meeting of the AP Vojvodina Assembly or its working bodies. It also concerns the presidents and members of the executive body of the AP Vojvodina, who are also not responsible for the opinion expressed at the session of that body and the assembly of the AP Vojvodina or for voting at the session of the executive body, etc. For what reason have we submitted an amendment that provides for the erasure of Article 6? For two basic reasons. The first is that they are, therefore, also in Article 46 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees freedom of opinion and expression, as well as freedom to seek, receive or spread information and ideas by speaking, writing, painting or other means. Also, this matter is provided for by election laws, and I remind you that it is not the Statute of the Vojvodina now, but the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I ask the question - what does an MP have to do with the right to speak, that he cannot be called to criminal responsibility by determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? For this reason, we have also predicted that this article should be deleted because we find it absolutely unnecessary in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31750	The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31751	Article 6 of the proposal of this law speaks about the protection of the province's MPs and other officials. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, just to remind you that this is a bill whose adoption will make all of you living in the territory of the AP Vojvodina a potential prey for the secession of those from the democratic regime or some who, like them, may be worse than them, if there are worse ones, come to power in Serbia. Says colleague Krasic - there are no worse ones, I totally agree. We ask Article 6 to be deleted because the protection of the province's MPs and other officials is done in the same way as in accordance with Article 103. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, protected by the ethnic MPs of the Republic of Serbia, is thus protected by the MPs of local self-government, but not by some ombudsman law, but by just as the government has said, which is why it does not accept the amendment. It does not accept it because such solutions on the protection of committees also contain a applicable law governing local self-government. Yes, of course, but this solution also contains a law governing the province's elections. That's exactly what we Serbian radicals have been saying here for several days. It is also interesting why this amendment does not yet accept these regimes, Boris Tadic. They say - because the proposed solutions are needed in a democratic society. The proposed solution, therefore, to the democratic society needed, should, according to this proposal, protect the province's MPs and other officials. In the name of such a democracy, wanting to express my democratic position, I received a warning yesterday. Dragan Todorovic, using his democratic right to state his or her SRS position, and I, of course, wanted to make an SRS position, received two warnings. Desiring to use his democratic right, to democratically address parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31752	People's MPs, please return the subject of the agenda, in accordance with Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31753	Thank you very much, the protection of the MPs and other officials. The proposal for Article 6 says - MP of the AP Vojvodina Assembly cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detention or punishment because of an unambiguous opinion or voting at the meeting of the AP Vojvodina Assembly or its working bodies. I'm just making a parallel as in this parliament, first I got one warning, so Dragan Todorovic got two warnings...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31754	People's MPs, I warned you to stick to the agenda theme. Punishment does not have anything to do with criminal liability on the grounds of violations committed by members of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to demean the People's Messengers and the People's Assembly, that you do not violate the reputation of the National Assembly, claiming such obvious falsehoods and bringing about criminal acts and punishments which, according to the members of our Rules of Procedure, are determined and which the chairman is obliged to give to all those who break the Rules of Procedure. I'm really asking you. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31755	Dear citizens, I am convinced that you disagree with Tadic's regimes that this is also a need for democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31756	The word has a letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31757	The President-in-Office, the amendment on which it is required to delete Article 6 and, in my deep conviction, you are very tending to present to those members how immunity is established to MPs of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, or members of the executive bodies. So, Article 103. The Constitution unequivocally defines who has immunity, or what the immunity enjoyed by the MP is. Therefore, the MP cannot be called to criminal or other responsibility for an opinion expressed or voting in the exercise of his or her parliamentary functions. A national MP who has called for immunity cannot be detained, nor can a criminal or other act be conducted against him, regardless of the crime involved. What is prescribed by this law is that the MP, or member of the executive body, cannot be responsible for what he said at the session of that body or for the vote he made for a decision. That in no way can be treated as immunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31758	Since the time of the authorised representative, or president of the parliamentary group, one minute and 19 seconds have been used. Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 19 MPs from the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31759	You see, this provision on the special immunity of local authorities really exists in the Law on Local Self-Government. It is a relic of earlier provisions, before this constitution came into force in 2006. The 2006 constitution knows only one type of immunity, which is immunity from criminal responsibility, as Mrs. Nada Kolundji was properly read by Article 103. This is immunity from criminal responsibility, which is based on the Constitution and is not only defined by Article 103, but is defined by other members of the Constitution, in which special immunities of special public officials are concerned by government members, when it comes to judges, when it comes to public prosecutors. However, when it comes to levels of local government and countered immunity is excluded for criminal responsibility, and any other immunity is practically in that sense groundless. I'll explain why. It would be nice for you to listen to me because you're going to hear something from someone who's a graduate lawyer and who has a lot to do with this matter. Immunity can be a different level. Immunity described in the Serbian Constitution is a specific immunity because it is tied to criminal responsibility and not only for criminal liability from the aspect of a public opinion, as stated in paragraph 1, but also to any other type of criminal liability. What is this about in parliaments, for example, or in government members? Because calling for responsibility could regularly be a source of political chican in society. In order to avoid a political shift towards people who have different opinions, this kind of thing is done in democratic societies. When it comes to other levels of immunity, which are known in theory and in practice, can be limited to a freely expressed opinion at sessions of different bodies. The problem with the law here is that there is no possibility from any provision of the Constitution that any form of immunity, especially criminal immunity, is established for any level of government. It can't be an excuse that a kind of immunity, as the legislator responds to this amendment, is established by the Law on Local Self-Government, which is why we can also establish it by this law. We just don't get to do that. Not only can neither the Law on Local Self-Government, nor can this law, and because it exists in some law and is not in accordance with the Constitution of Serbia, it can only mean that every citizen of this state, including DSS MPs, can submit a proposal to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. It is no excuse that there is something in one place, and is not in agreement with the Constitution, that such disagreement is made in another law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31760	55 seconds of MP time was used. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31761	I'm using the time of an authorised representative of the SRS. I don't get it, after what Mrs. Colundji said, what is the DS position and who wrote this bill. First you made a mistake in the title of this law. It could have been just "the law on determining questions from the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina", and you said "determining jurisdiction". You've expanded unnecessarily. There's a lot of unconstitution, and you'll see why. What does it have to do with the transfer of jurisdiction to immunity? Can anyone find a connection? The issue of immunity is the status issue of the MP, MP of the province's assembly. The status issues are regulated by the Constitution, electoral laws and can be governed by the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. Why did you put that into the jurisdiction law? What is this jurisdiction that is passed on when it comes to immunity? There's no jurisdiction. Do you see how pointless it is? You've had trouble making something so it doesn't become a constitution, that it's supposed to be a statute and how to give the material. This could be in constitutional acts. A constitutional act is a statute, but within the limits of the Constitution and the law. In the law of jurisdiction, you say "determination", between determination and determination, there's a big difference, but it's supposed to be written to you by some master of synonyms, the master of the synonyms who wrote you this bill was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31762	A minute and 45 seconds of the mandated representative of the SRS parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? If not, it was submitted to the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment by the People's Parliament of the Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31763	Article 7 speaks of the property of the AP Vojvodina and this is, um, what's excessive, um, what's unconstitutional, I mean just one of the ridiculous norms, if it wasn't tragic it would be funny. I must first say that the Government has said that this amendment has not been accepted because the proposed solutions are in line with the provisions of Articles 86 and 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 86 speaks of the equality of all forms of property. It says: "Secret private, cooperative and public property." Public property is a state property, property of an autonomous province, property of a unit of local self-government. All forms of property have equal legal protection. I don't know why they called for this, and neither do they. Article 183 speaks of the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces. Among other things, I guess this is what they thought they said about these regimes of Tadic -- autonomous provinces manage the province's assets in the way that the law provided for. Article 7 of the bill says - the property of the AP Vojvodina, the way it is used and made available, is regulated by law. What you wanted with this law, I can't understand. I believe that he does not understand either who actually proposed this law, because the essence of it is that, respected and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, something in this bill is being placed on the table to be adopted, that in its title is the law governing the determination of some new powers of the AP Vojvodina, that these powers have come out of the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that this is why the MPs of the SRS are not allowed to speak here. That's why we got the warning, that's why Aleksandra Martinovic was taken from his word, so Gordana Pop-Lazic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31764	People's MPs, I warn you that you can't speak falsely during your presentation at the National Assembly. People's MPs have the inalienable right to the free word. The MPs who violate the members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, unfortunately, have a common obligation with me to punish them. I ask that you do not violate the reputation of the National Assembly, that you do not speak falsely of banning the word and that the word is not obtained and that we adhere to all of the 104th and other members who are governed by our mutual conduct. The responsibility for the public word is very high. Every MP has a huge impact and in direct transmission, I ask that we all keep that in mind, as well as the reasons why we are obliged to follow the rules that we ourselves have made. There are no negotiations on the rules, and we must show that we respect them ourselves. You can continue if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31765	Do you forbid us to speak in direct transmission? The citizens have just heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31766	People's MPs, I give you a second warning for disrespecting the National Assembly for violating the Rules of Procedure, for insisting that, by breaking the rules that apply to all of us, you violate the reputation of the National Assembly. Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Srdjan Spasojevic, Aleksandra Ilic and Aleksandra Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31767	The New Serbia parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 7 because it is a member talking about the assets of the AP Vojvodina. I'll read both his attitudes. "The property of the AP Vojvodina, the way it is used and available, is regulated by law." I think it's first and foremost established by the Constitution. "In the possession of the AP Vojvodina, as a form of public property, are things used under the law by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, public enterprises and institutions of which it is the founder of other mobile and immovable matters, in accordance with the law governing public property." I'd like to remind you of a law that doesn't rush, which can't be seen on the horizon of the laws passed, which is the law on restitution and denationalization. Many institutions and public enterprises are located in objects that are the subject. which must be subject to those laws. Among other things, one of the goals of passing this law is to postpone what we must inevitably face and what this country must arrange, and then it will be a little divorceous, and the desire to bring it to the EU, and it will not be done, and we all know well that it is the first and basic condition of EU accession, if we are honest with our citizens. So this member and this member were not allowed to be in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31768	Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs from the Progress Group of Serbia and a group of 19 MPs of the DSS group submitted to the 7th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, and Milos Aligrudic, the People's Messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31769	Article 7 paragraph 2 reads - in the name of the AP Vojvodina, as a form of public property, are things used under the law by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, public enterprises and institutions of which it is the founder and other mobile and immovable matters in accordance with the law governing public property. We asked for that attitude to be erased because we do not have a law on public property and because this law prejudges the way public property will be established by a law that has not yet been passed. The government of the Republic of Serbia says - the amendment is not accepted because the issues provided for in Article 7(2) will be adopted. The bill of law shall be systemically governed by a law governing public property. You've already arranged them here. You have already said that AP Vojvodina as a form of public property will belong to property of many objects, moving and immovable things used by public enterprises etc. How do you know it's going to be written in the public property law? Doesn't it come from the public property law whether something like a form of public property will belong to the AP Vojvodina or not? Instead of saying yes, you're right, we're going to pass that law, you're telling me like I'm a little kid, which you're erasing when that law isn't passed. That's why I'm erasing you, which is why the law wasn't passed. As if you were to say the citizens of Vojvodina will drive on the left side of August, in accordance with the safety law that will be passed. The law on traffic security is passed, so they say – go to the right side. Who's in college with who now? Please, property isn't just a simple question. Set up public property by law. In this law of public property, determine what belongs to the AP Vojvodina. What do we carry as public property to the AP Vojvodina? What we haven't even established as public property. Did the Legislative Secretariat see that? He wasn't, or he was looking at someone illiterate, or he wasn't interested. I cannot accept at all the fact that this law orders what will be done to other laws, which are systematic. So, the law establishing the authority of the Vojvodina is systematic for the public property law. Well, it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31770	Since the time of the president of the parliamentary group, 35 seconds. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31771	I'd depend on this. The arguments are the same. You see, you're prescribing something that needs to be prescribed by another law. You enter into the matter of another regulation that even under the Constitution must be brought, which you did not even bring, and had to precede any adoption or giving consent to the Statute of Vojvodina. That's what we talk about all the time. In order to give us the right of you from the Government, you wrote in an explanation that you refuse the amendment to delete position 2 and I will remind us in paragraph 2 - in the name of the AP Vojvodina, as a form of public property, are things used by the authorities of the AP Vojvodina, public enterprises and institutions of which it is the founder of other mobile and immovable matters in accordance with the law governing public property. Look, we don't have a law that regulates public property, in this sense in the area of the assets of the AP Vojvodina. It is necessary to pass the law on the property of the AP Vojvodina. To pass the law on the property of the AP Vojvodina you wouldn't have to write a provision on property in the Duke's jurisdiction law. At least not this way. Since your decree is too high, we're getting away with it. Now what do you say in your explanation why you don't accept our amendment? This is the highlight. You say, "The amendment is not accepted." The questions provided for in Article 7(2) against whom we are, the bill will be systematically governed by a law governing public property. Wait, people, so you've given an explanation for why Article 2, Article 7, should be deleted, so you're refusing us an amendment asking us to delete Article 7, with an explanation for erasing that article, because what you said is exactly our reason, which is why we're looking for an expropriation of this attitude 2. This shows how much you understand what this is all about, how you defend the law that you've passed and proposed as an unconstitutional regulation, how many provisions in itself are in chaos and don't make any sense, and then when you have to defend your position under the amendment, you can't defend it, but you can give an explanation that should actually go as an explanation for the amendment. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31772	Anyone else want a word? If not, the title above article 8 and article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31773	Dear citizens of Serbia, Article 8 of the bill is, of course, too high, as the whole law is too high, and it is indeed an incredible nonsense. I don't know who could have written something stupid like this. Literally rewritten views of a member of the Constitution. Actually, the question of whether this is stupid, it just looks like that at first sight. This is actually saying that this law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is actually the Constitution of the Vojvodina. That is what is the essence of the adoption of this law and that is what is the essence of Boris Tadic's policy on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. In fact, Article 184, which is why the amendment is not accepted, says the government of Boris Tadic, an autonomous province has original incomes that finance its competences, a point. Article 8 in the position of the first of this law, whose prenuptiality we propose, says - AP Vojvodina has the original income to finance its competences, prescribed. Item 2 of Article 184. The constitution - the type and height of the original income of autonomous provinces are determined by law. Article 8(2) - type and level of original revenue of the AP Vojvodina shall be determined by special law. Why didn't you arrange it with a special law? No, but this law serves as a constitution for you to pass other laws when you definitely decide to split the AP of Vojvodina from Serbia. That's what we're telling you, you're creating a legal framework, you're creating an almost constitutional framework for some hothead who thinks he can do it so he can do it, be clean in front of an international community, etc., since you've already gone into internationalization of some kind of so-called. Invented from your side of the problem on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. So, this member, as well as this whole law, is unconstitutional and is essentially the constitution of a future state of Vojvodina, which is clearly being advocated by all those who will vote in favour of this law, and are opposed to the requirement that the bill should be voted in public, name and name, not hide behind buttons and dice, but that Serbian citizens clearly see by name who wants to preserve the state of Serbia and who wants to break down the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31774	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji. After her, MP Zoran Krasic
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31775	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard such attitudes here, which, indeed, if a man made an effort to find logic in that he would have a serious problem. So if something is unconstitutional because it's literally taken over from the Constitution, then I really don't know who can understand it. The basic objection to this Article 8 is – it is literally taken from the Constitution. According to some, that's exactly why he's unconstitutional. I have to say that the colleague who brought this up before me repeats her former boss's position, who also believes that if you apply something from the Constitution, then it's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31776	Fifty-five seconds of Parliament time. There is a word from MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31777	Yeah, I've been using since that time. I need Nadia Kolundjia to explain some things. When, in some sublegal act or in some law, you literally rewrite the provision of the Constitution, you devalued that provision of the Constitution. The constitution is not prescribed – you should know that. As soon as you bring down that constitutional norm, literally rewritten to some lower act, you have committed a threat to the Constitution. That's the first thing. Another thing, Mrs. Kolundjia, in the light of your bill here's what you wrote, the reasons why this law is passed. It says – the need to extend the existing powers of the APV based on the current laws of the Republic of Serbia. We probably have 30% of the areas and issues that need to be regulated by regulations, or the laws of the Republic of Serbia. With you, the only argument is 126 votes, so everything can be explained, and it can be both sides and a half. What is the basic problem in addition to this copying? It's obvious that you don't really know what provincial autonomy is. Here, I will tell you what your problem is – it is the right of citizens to achieve provincial autonomy in those areas that are not originally state-owned and these are the original competences of the province's autonomy. There's another group of jobs, and they're trusted businesses. In these jobs, when even the province authorities participate, they perform with an attribute of government – state power. The constitution stipulates that when the state government trusts a lower body, it is also obliged to provide funds for these operations. It's a classic example of parent books, so I don't move on. When you in the bill, where you say allegedly ''the jurisdiction', and the question of what is being said about jurisdiction in the autonomous province, that is, there are only certain questions from something that is an area and the whole area is jurisdiction. You made papaziania. You've also submitted a first-degree procedure and a second-degree administrative procedure, and you have no right to do so. Then by this law and by the statute of the AP, by the draft statute, you entered into something that is local self-government. You have no right to interfere. You can only go to those jobs where the AP is transferring some of the issues from its jurisdiction to local self-government, because local self-government is protected by the state. No, you're not interested in constitutionality, or legality, or principles, or dimensions of issues that are of regional importance. Know at the outset, regardless of these 15 areas listed in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that issues are of rural importance, the dimension of these issues and the competence of the AP are determined by individual laws in each of these areas, not the omnibus law, not this way. This is where you made a total mess. Why? You have created a kind of inequality for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The statusant of the Republic of Serbia from Ćupre and Vienna is equal and equal in rights, and you have made inequality and in practice you will make inequality. You even took some areas that don't belong to them under the Constitution. If you change the statute and write – The Constitution and insert any one or two provisions, you have a full Constitution of an independent state. That's the problem. We're on time. We know you. Tadic, he says -- vote for me, 300,000 I will hire, and every month 10,000 gets fired; vote for me, tomorrow you get a white Schengen, here's a third term. We do not believe – we know you. You broke up in this building of the SRJ, the State Community, that is, you wrote the Constitutional Charter and legalized your departure. This is preparation. We know what kind of forces are centrifugal and centrifugal in the Balkans – which the snake burns, it is also afraid of. We do not sow fear, but inform, warn, and say, "Who are you? What are you doing?" We want to stop you, so that the state and the people don't fall into the hole because of you. That's why I'm telling you -- you don't prescribe constitutional provisions, but you respect what's written in the Constitution, because some of the province's secretaries are going to say -- I don't care about the Constitution and the law, which is what you put in the AP statute, so if in some questions the Republic hasn't solved the AP will solve it on its own. Oh, he can't. He can't, especially if it's an area that's not in the exclusive jurisdiction of the right of the province's autonomy. You copied something from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in 1990, the last provision – if the Republic of Serbia considers that the rights of the Republic of Serbia have been compromised by certain decisions of the federal state, it has the right to protect itself against the SFRY. You have now inserted it into the statutes, as you take more care of Serbia than anyone else. No, we know you. When you say – Serbia goes forward, we know that Serbia is down, so you admitted. Where's your budget? Where's your rebalancing -- it's gone, 30 billion you owe this country, you sell everything you can? Where are your free shares? Anyone who trusted you has repented deeply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31778	Six minutes and 50 seconds of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31779	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who has broken up with his actions knows history, knows citizens and remembers well. That, fortunately, is seen in their votes in the elections. If we were to go from being taken over, any norm that was taken from the Constitution to devalue the Constitution itself, then I guess all the laws that we've brought to this end have devalued this Constitution that it has absolutely no value, which I don't really believe in. So when you pass laws, of course, the Constitution is both the starting point and the starting point of every law that is passed. Thus are the norms prescribed by the Constitution of what is going on and what is being done in every law. I don't have to answer to these other political attacks because, fortunately, citizens see clearly that when you have no argument you attack personally and when you have nothing to object to, you make things up, and that's how I stop at this. Thank you. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31780	One minute and 20 seconds of time as president of the parliamentary group. The word is by MP Zoran Krasic, using the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31781	I wanted a replica, Mrs. Chomic. Why don't I?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31782	You have no right to a replica. (Dragan Zivkov: There is no in the Rules of Procedure.) ) I ask MP Dragan Zivkov not to throw away – there are discards in the Rules of Procedure. To your throw – what is in the Rules of Procedure, I direct you either to read it or to ask the Secretary-General to deliver it to you or to ask the Legislative Committee or the Committee on Administrative Affairs, so you will be spared dilemmas, what is there, and what is not in the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure it is prohibited to throw out of place, rude treatment and rude behavior. Does MP Zoran Krasic want to speak in the time of the parliamentary group president? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31783	Mrs. Comic, I wanted to get a line, but since you won't let me, I won't waste this time. I'm waiting for a better time on television to better inform the public about what's going on. I hope the replica hasn't been lifted?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31784	You used 11 seconds from the time of the president of the parliamentary group. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31785	Mrs. Comic, you have now injured article 33. The Rules of Procedure, because in the explanation of your colleague, Zivkov, you said he should address the Secretary-General... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31786	National MPs, member of 33, cannot be harmed during this part of the session of the Assembly. I warn you that abuse of the right to appear in breach of the Rules of Procedure is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure and that is serious. If you think anyone has the right to abuse the right to a word and treat it irresponsiblely according to the words given by the Rules of Procedure, then I must also direct you to a more careful reading of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31787	Tell me, was it necessary for you to listen to me to tell you to the end what was hurt or did you conclude that I had no right to do so before I said so? I called in article 33 regarding Article 104, and I wanted to say more.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31788	National MPs, member of 33, cannot be harmed during this session. I give you a second warning because of the abuse of the rights arising from Article 100(1) that MPs use their right to indicate the violation of the Rules of Procedure and thus enables all of us to apply the rules we have brought together equally to all. There are no negotiations on the rules and the rules apply equally to everyone. Anyone else want a word? If not, the People's MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic together submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31789	Article 8 speaks of financing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and has three positions. The original text reads: "Ap Vojvodina has the original income to finance its competences. The types and height of the original revenue of the AP Vojvodina are determined by special law. The funds for doing trusted jobs are provided by the Republic of Serbia." It is the same one that the Republic of Serbia has failed to deliver the necessary funds to its local self-government. We asked for the text of Article 8 to be deleted and replaced by the words: "AP Vojvodina has the original income to finance its competences. The types and height of the original revenue of the AP Vojvodina are determined by the special law of the Republic of Serbia. All revenue on the territory of the AP Vojvodina is charged by the state administration authority determined by the law of the Republic of Serbia. The AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the law of the Republic of Serbia, can establish financial organisations, funds and other organisations to finance businesses of importance for the province in the areas of economy, transport, agriculture, water industry, forestry, hunting and fishing, tourism, catering, education, culture, sports, health and social protection and in other areas established by the law of the Republic of Serbia." The explanation for the refusal of this amendment says that the amendment is not accepted. The decisions set out in the draft law are in accordance with Article 184. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clear and does not require further precision. The absolute law must further specify everything it accepts, i.e. what it needs to implement from the Constitution as constitutional provision, and we have tried to do so in the best interests of the citizens and of Serbia and Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31790	Anyone else want a word? If not, MPs Velimir Ilic, Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic together submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, supported by the amendment of Ms Zlata Djeric, who sought to delete and who was unfortunately not accepted, then in Article 8, we tried to submit an amendment that would somewhat improve this text and which would essentially contribute to the possible improvement of the legal text. So Article 8 after the word "legal" deletes the point and adds the words "in accordance with the Constitution". Article 3 adds Article 4 which reads: "The control and control of spending of funds is carried out by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the law and the Constitution. "The explanation of this amendment is that the most sensitive issue for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the issue of acquisition and spending, and in particular the control carried out over these funds is very important and binding. Citizens must be informed of the way in which the budget is available, as everyone participates in their creation. Of course, the argument given by the Government as to why it did not accept this amendment is entirely arbitrary, not in practice to what we have proposed, but the explanation is practically and does not refer to this amendment that we have submitted, so I hope that additionally, either at the sitting here or in the voting day, will take into account even the ruling coalition and support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31792	Anyone else want a word? If not, Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Zeljko Tomic and Miroslav Petkovic together submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31793	Article 8, as has already been said, defines the way the Autonomous Region is financed, and our amendment gives an explanation and explains how it should be done. The constitution defines a framework for financing an autonomous province, but it is a serious problem that this law does not go with the law on property and the law on financing, because it would thus be fully clearly defined in which way the right to realise autonomy would be exercised. Without original income and without income for transferred responsibilities, not all transactions carried over to Vojvodina will be possible. I don't believe it's an accident that these two laws don't exist, even though it's a deadline that's already 11 months from the one who defined the Constitution. The bill explains that financial resources from the budget will be provided, but this is one of the few laws that does not say what funds and what percentages, or any closer definition, but only one sentence says that funds will be provided from the budget. The finance minister, I was already talking about this today, says the finance ministry is hardly able to determine what the funds are. I would remind MPs in the Assembly that we recently had a law on the transfer of funds of municipalities and cities, and that law had a fat explanation in tables where each of these powers to the dinar is precisely defined, whether it is related to education, health care, any transferred jurisdiction to municipalities and cities, up to the dinar counts on how much it is to determine the final figure. What is a serious problem, we are making a decision on the law on determining jurisdiction and a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. The statute is in direct contrast and conflict with the bill when it comes to funding. When you look at the constitutional norm that is correctly passed into the law, the constitutional norm defines that the law determines the amount and the type of income. A member of the statute defining funding says the AP will determine the income rate on its own. It's in direct contrast to this norm of the law that it's about. On the other hand, in Serbia's legal order, there are a large number of laws that define the financial system. Each of the decisions of the Assembly must comply with these laws and is not the law on determining the jurisdiction of the sole law in force. A team earlier is a bigger problem that no funding law has been passed. A few months ago, the Budget System Act was passed. The law accurately defines the way in which all public revenues and public expenditure are handled. On the other hand, there is a Law on public revenue and public expenditure. The terms and norms in the statutes are in direct contrast to those two laws. When you look at Article 24. The law on the budgetary system and compare the revenues set out in the draft statutes, it is in direct contrast. None of these norms or most of these norms are absolutely mentioned. In a law defining the Budgetary System Act, there is absolutely no possibility that the province has the right to participate in the revenues of public enterprises and institutions. This could change, but there had to be amendments and additions to the Law on the Budgetary System and amendments and additions to the Law on Public Revenue. It says here that funds will be provided through the transfer of funds. That can be done, it's done today, but it says AP Vojvodina's income is also considered a supplemental transfer from the Republic's budget. The budget system law absolutely does not know the term "additional transfer". He doesn't know anything about that. How can we fund something that doesn't exist? Secondly, an independent collection of income is envisaged. It's already done, it's done by local self-government. A portion of the income, say, of the Law on the financing of local self-government is allowed for local self-government to charge property tax. We can consider that, for example, the ongoing problem in funding is that the revenues from when they moved to local self-government have fallen drastically. Several times smaller than when they were charged by the Tax Administration of Serbia. This way is directly developing a tax administration system in Serbia, and this is being removed by our amendment. It should be noted that many countries in the EU, let's say, Italy, France, Scandinavia, have a similar model of financing autonomy, but the tax administration is comprehensive throughout the territory in no way jeopardising autonomy and contributes to a better achievement of all necessary functions. One more thing, the statute provides the possibility of borrowing and says it is one of the options for the province to decide on borrowing. The Public Debt Act absolutely does not open that possibility, as it says that any borrowing is previously obtained by the government's opinion, or goes to the Assembly and only then comes to borrowing. That is directly contrary to the Public Debt Act. So, in addition to the fact that the whole law was 11 months behind the constitutional obligation, obviously there are many discrepancies, obviously it was done in a verse and obviously we can't even pass the 2010 budget, because we can't determine how many responsibilities these are, and hence the people of Vojvodina will be denied what the Constitution guarantees them as a commitment and as a right to autonomy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31794	Five minutes and 50 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? If not, members of the 9th and 9th Amendment are appointed by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment to the SRS has, in principle, expressed its political stance towards this act as a whole, but certainly also on this chapter relating to the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. We believe, once again, that this act and the document that is before us represents a secession in the field. Serbia has had real unpleasant experiences with both secessions and separatism for years back and recently. In the territory of an autonomous province, you're all witnesses, you know how it happened, how it happens today. I'm talking about AP Kosovo and Metohija, of course. Circumstances were such that those who carried out the secession did so by using weapons and violence. What is happening today in the territory of the AP Vojvodina is an act of secession, but those who created this document are aware of the fact that mechanisms that were so Europeanally sophisticated have lagged. And these mechanisms are certainly responsibilities that are transferred from a republican level to the province level, the way that they are done, but certainly also the questions that are defined here are of regional importance. When we talk about this act in general and this member, it is truly ungrateful to say what is most devastating and what is the worst. It's absolutely all bad and, we repeat, everything in the function of secession and the creation of a new one, as we could hear last night, the Republic or, God forbid, states in perspective. The SRS absolutely can't accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31796	Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 19 MPs from the Democratic Party of Serbia have submitted to the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31797	Mrs. Komic, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 9 practically opens the second chapter of the law that regulates the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Article 8 discusses the financing of the mandate of the AP Vojvodina and here we have the final principle provisions, where some laws are foreseen, and then some things will be harmonised, and Article 3 clearly states that the means to carry out trusted tasks is provided by the Republic of Serbia. As far as it's concerned, it's all clear. Article 9 makes it clear that when the statute is first adopted, it is derived from the law, how certain failures and certain mistakes can be made. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed a principled provision concerning the competencies of the AP Vojvodina, which would read: "The questions of the province's importance of the AP Vojvodina are governed by its decisions and other general acts, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the statute of the AP Vojvodina. “ We believe that it is much better to formulate that this is the case – that after that, we count the responsibilities of the AP Vojvodina, and the issues of constitutionality, legality, the relationship between the republican and the provinceal authorities can be regulated in a completely different place. I would like to ask Mr Ljajic, as the authorised representative of the Government here, to find me a member of the Constitution from which the motionor has drawn up a third position in this article that, if the competent authority of the Republic of Serbia adopts a regulation to enforce the law within the time limit laid down by this law, the AP Vojvodina may, in the areas referred to in Article 1, by its act, regulate the enforcement of the law in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Mr. Ljajic, please explain this to me, so that we may know whether to further explain this amendment or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31798	Anyone else want a word? If not, a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, and Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31799	This member is, in fact, the opening of Pandora's box, because after that, in almost 20 members, the areas that are not at all foreseen by the constitution as areas governed by the law on the transfer of jurisdiction, and this member himself, in at least two of his stances, are directly disabling the RS Constitution and promoting the AP Vojvodina as a territory that will determine itself what issues are of regional importance. So this is about one scam you'd like to perform by establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, and it's enough for you to say in one article that the AP Vojvodina will settle questions of the province's importance and it turns out that this law determines what matters of the province. So you say in one sentence, which Mrs. Kolundzija will certainly not be able to understand, and she will be able to defend; you say, questions of the province importance of the AP Vojvodina are regulated by her acts in areas that are in accordance with the Constitution and the law in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which are legally defined as matters of the province. Who understands this sentence? Our sentence is simpler - questions in areas that are in line with the Constitution and the law in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, which are legally defined as issues of the province importance of the AP Vojvodina, are regulated by its acts. So someone has to determine the AP Vojvodina which issues are, and not that the AP Vojvodina, by its statute, determines what issues are of the province's importance, because then there would be an excessive consumption of autonomy that is not foreseen by the Constitution. The constitution did not say that the AP Vojvodina itself would determine its responsibilities and issues that are of the province's importance, but that it would discuss issues that the law has entrusted as matters of the province's importance. The third position is a direct interference in the jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in the entire legislative system, and I am surprised, since the Constitutional Committee has not interfered with the legality of the act, that it has passed through the Legislative Committee. How can the AP Vojvodina apply something that is not elaborated, to apply a law that is not designed by the government of the Republic of Serbia? Then what's the AP Vojvodina? The government that's working out the law? Then the government of the Republic of Serbia will appeal to the Constitutional Court for taking over the government of the AP Vojvodina. That's why you call the Executive Major of the Duke a government, so that it could mean that the laws passed by the National Assembly are being worked out by their acts, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not worked that out. In the case of public property, the AP Vojvodina can now say - it takes public property before the law on public property is passed, and you complain to the Constitutional Court, so when it is settled in the Constitutional Court, we will respect the Constitutional Court's decision. So, I respect the autonomy of the Vojvodina, but above all, I respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The autonomy stemmed from the will of Serbian citizens to give Vojvodina autonomy. It did not come out of the will of the political elite of Vojvodina to seize the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia. So, in the responsibilities that we here as the National Assembly determine that they are of the province's importance, please, regulate them in the Vojvodina Assembly as the ruling majority of the Vojvodina Assembly wishes. I'm asking a question that may interest you very nicely - and what if there is an emergency parliamentary election and we change the law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, what happens to the Statute of Vojvodina, which you will then apply? Why don't we make a law that will be voted by a vast majority in the Serbian Parliament, why are we making a law that you now know will be changed when the majority of the Serbian Parliament changes? Isn't that a force, isn't that a discount, isn't it a wish to bring in one bad act at a time when we get encouraging news from Brussels? Why didn't you pass this law for 13 months? You were afraid of the Serbian citizens' reaction. Now you'll have it as a dough and meat, you'll see it as a discount, in visa liberalisation, in the defrosting of the Association Agreement, and you'll pass the determination of the authority of the Vojvodina; that's your policy. So, I'm convinced you're wrong, and you, Mrs. Kolundjia, read the members of the 64th to 84th Law, so tell me where it is foreseen in the Constitution, from science to the use of the name Vojvodina, that it regulates the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31800	It was used three minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has a folk letter from Nada Kolundji, president of the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31801	The President-in-Office, of course, understands the provision of a member of the law, but it is really very difficult to understand the possibility that it is understood in the way that Mr Nikolic understood it. The Constitution in Article 177.2 states what issues are of republican, regional and local importance, so this law that we are discussing here today. If it determines the jurisdiction of the law, and we know that it is decided by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, how it can be concluded that the AP Vojvodina's powers are decided by it, I really do not have the ability to understand. That, I must admit, I don't understand. What is very important is that when it comes to the autonomy of Vojvodina, the constitution clearly defined the position of autonomy in relation to the Republic and all issues concerning the autonomy of the Vojvodina is decided by the Republic of Serbia, or the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is also the strongest argument that there is absolutely no single element of statehood, no single danger that would be contained in these acts, which could mean some unilateral AP decision. So, anything concerning the autonomy of the Vojvodina is decided by the Serbian Parliament. I just want to remind them that they're going to have to do something else before that, which is to change the Constitution, which they were proud of is their work, especially when it comes to the provisions on autonomy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31802	Two minutes and 10 seconds used from the time of the president of the parliamentary group. If no one wants to discuss the details of the amendment to Article 9, we will finish work in the morning and set a break by 1600 hours. Before thanking you for your co-operation in this morning's work, notice that we will discuss in particular the draft law which is currently on the agenda on Friday, November 27th, at 10.00 p.m., by discussing details of the title above Articles 10 and 10, i.e. the amendment submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. At 4:00 a.m., the Assembly will be working on the basis of article 200. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and from 16:00 to 19.00 hours will be answered by the members of the government and by the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31803	Dear People's MPs, given that today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 200(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16:00 to 19.00. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP shall have the right to ask a parliamentary question to the individual Minister or Government under their jurisdiction, in accordance with Article 199(1). Rules of Procedure. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated; the presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes; the President of the National Assembly will warn the MP who asks the parliamentary question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The government, or the minister, must reply orally immediately to the oral question. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. Also, according to Article 202. The Rules of Procedure, following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment, for a maximum period of five minutes, on the answer to his question or on the additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of five minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are applied accordingly, by not allowing replication and apportionment of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the practice of work so far, by giving a change of word to MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from at least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. (Dear Todorovic, from the scene: Just one question, please? What about the answers we received in writing, do we have the right to use Article 202 or do we not? ) All the rights we have just read and are very clear, decadent. On the basis of Article 202 following the answer given here, during the session, to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of five minutes on the answer to the question or to ask an additional question. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Wait, they gave me not during the session, but in writing.) How should I comment in writing? I don't understand you. I got the answer. Do I have the right to use, on the basis of Article 202, or do I not? Please, this is quite clear and I think you all understand. The potential for all of us to understand this is only if we want to. You are right if you are not satisfied or not given a clear answer. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Okay, reporting on the basis of Article 202.) Mrs. Zlata Djeric is first. Excuse me, Mr. Vladan Batic is before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31804	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first question is the Prime Minister, the entire government and the Minister of Economy. About five million Serbian citizens who have earned the right to free action, at least according to the latest information, will receive less than 20 euros, or 1,600 dinars. It is much less than what the State Secretary of the Economy has promised, which mentioned a sum of between 80 and 100 euros. This question really requires an answer. It's not about social aid. Because the amount of 1,600 dinars is not even at the level of social assistance. Or do people who are in charge of this consider Serbian citizens to be social cases and give them some church girl? I remind you that everyone, on behalf of free shares, will be paid 1,000 euros each. We've reached 1,600 dinars. I think the citizens of Serbia really deserve an answer to this question. I'm asking the Minister of Telecommunications here. Why is there a tender in Serbia for just another fixed-line operator? Are there only two operators in the environment, in any country former SFRY? What are the motives, what are the reasons, why is it so, given the fact that, let's say, Slovenia has 12 fixed-line operators, that Croatia has 10 fixed-line operators, that Macedonia has eight, that even Bosnia and Herzegovina has three fixed-line operators? Let's at least be on the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And then, when a tender was called, conditions were set that only one company could meet, as the income of 200m euros and a million users corresponded only to Telenor. Why isn't a tender called for at least two other fixed-line operators, because we're always talking about fighting monopolies, and here are the monopolies and how are they present? The third question, which relates to the first one, concerns the loss in the NIS. What about eight billion euros? Those free shares, which are at the level of five free shares, after the sale of NIS, were supposed to be worth 2,500 dinars, will now be worth even less.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31805	The minister, Mrs. Jasna Matic, has an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31806	Thank you very much for your question, Mr. Batic. I agree with you that Serbia is very late in the liberalisation process and that other operators should have been introduced in the field of fixed telephony long ago. The legal monopoly "Telecoma" on fixed telephony expired in June 2005. So far, no step has been taken to eliminate the monopoly. The Serbian government's decision was to now offer a single licence, so that under the conditions of the economic crisis, it could be seen whether there was an operator's interest in offering public voice services or fixed telephony on our market. Meanwhile, there has been a change in the market for telecommunications at global level, and fixed telephony has no longer been that important, nor has traffic as it had before. Now fixed telephony around the world is losing traffic. Traffic is moving to mobile phones and landline telephony is no longer so interesting. Fixed telephony, i.e. fixed infrastructure, has the greatest importance of offering Internet services, and that was why we wanted to bring the competition here. As far as the terms are concerned, I'd like to say you didn't interpret them well. This would be so if conditions would oblige these numbers to be met, so a million users and 200m-euro turnover on the Serbian market alone, but this is not the case in the tender conditions, but rather a total sum. This means that anyone who meets these conditions in one or more countries can compete. In our market, apart from Telenor, there are several other companies that can meet that condition, and in particular there are a large number of companies on the global market that can report to the tender.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31807	Mr. Vladan Batic, up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31808	Very short. If you say fixed telephony is no longer such a challenge, there should have been a tender for multiple operators before. So it's logical, it's semantic, it's totally clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31809	Ms. Jasna Matic, Minister. Here you go. Mrs. Zlata Djeric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31811	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, given the modest number of members of the government who responded, I assume that the government does not want to directly answer many questions that citizens have through their representatives to guide them. I expected that in this afternoon, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, who is obliged to publicly and in these direct transmissions of citizens, would give some answers, so I will say again my question that I referred to Mr Cvetkovic in the morning, which is very disturbing to the public of Serbia and the citizens of Vojvodina, which is the statement by Mr Sandor Egereshi, that this government, during this term, will mean by the end of this term, will change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to comply with the needs of Vojvodina autonomy. We don't understand what it means, Serbian citizens don't know what it was agreed on, who arranged it, what changes it was, because no changes in the pre-election campaigns of the Constitution were announced by the parties now representing the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So that is the answer that Mr Mirko Cvetkovic must directly, and, as soon as possible, when he is not there, to tell the citizens of Serbia. The second question is one partly local issue, but it repeats itself in many places. I ask the Minister of Economy and Regional Development to get an answer to the issue from the Agency for Business Registers, as it is possible to register as the 140th Co-operative of the Stapar Agricultural Association, which enables the unheard robbery of cooperatives, a 1,600,000-euro robbery. It's something they also expect in response from their government. The third question I also have to repeat, although Mrs Djukic-Dejanovic initially read what obligations were in response to parliamentary questions, this is a question that I refer to the health minister, who is also absent, which I referred to in the summer session and I have not yet received an answer – who are the cytostatic suppliers, which companies provide the cytostatics with five children's oncology in Serbia? This is the question the parents of children who are most seriously ill in this country are looking for, and it is not a groundless question. I think a lot of serious questions will open up after that answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31812	Whether one of the ministers wants to answer, though the essential issues are directed at the prime minister and will be forwarded to him. Mr. Samardzic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31813	Dear members of the Government, you are aware that this assembly has been under discussion for the third day on the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and on the statutes of the AP Vojvodina. A large number of MPs spoke yesterday, yesterday and today, and there is one question that no answer has been received. So I would ask one of the ministers present, perhaps one of the two ministers, Minister Markovic or Ciplic, who were here the day before yesterday to discuss it. We didn't even get an answer to that question then. In fact, we believe that these two documents could not come to the agenda of the same cabinet, that it was normal under the Constitution to first discuss the law on jurisdiction and to discuss the draft statutes at the second session. In fact, we must leave time for amendments to be adopted in relation to the law on jurisdiction, which theoretically could have been adopted, so that the Statute of Vojvodina is then made to it, at the very least, because a good part of that statute contains the powers that the Vojvodina should carry out. My question is this: how and why did the Government allow the text of the Vojvodina Statute to be first drawn up, and then the Government makes a law on jurisdiction and to bring it into line with a younger legal document, with the Statute of Vojvodina? How could it happen that at this session, where the law on jurisdiction is to be discussed, no other two draft laws that are also a condition for the adoption of Vojvodina's statutes, therefore, of the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina and the property law. According to the Constitution of Serbia, these laws, the three that I mentioned, and the other two that have been brought in, do not need to be mentioned now, are the assumption that they are subject to the creation of the statutes of Vojvodina i.e. His proposal at the AP Vojvodina Assembly, then that statute should come to the Serbian Parliament and see whether or not it was agreed on, and then we can discuss it afterwards. My question is – how and why did this occur and how did the government allow this procedure to be violated by the drafting of these laws and the resulting process of making the statutes of Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31814	Mr. Chiplic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31815	Dear Members of Parliament, honourable Members of Parliament, as you know, the Statute of the AP Vojvodina is also the work of the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. In the legislative policy and legislative technique, it simply happened that it was far easier to ensure that the AP Vojvodina, through its Assembly, did the very clear constitutional obligation that stands before it, which is that the AP Vojvodina Statute brings and adopts it and thus perfects it to come to a session of the Serbian Parliament, which confirms it under the Constitution. The Law laying down competences, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as a constitutionally authorised proposing, consists in the form of a proposal, in a nomotechnical sense of a very complicated and complex proposal, is made up of that all areas envisaged by the Constitution as areas in which the AP Vojvodina determines or regulates, precisely for legal purposes, for legal certainty that in the form of technical, legal and any other consultation and work of ministries and regional secretariats, in order for the legal text to be as precise and clear as possible, it had to be done in this way. What is important for the citizens and for the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, that in this assembly, as you know, two separate points of the agenda, that, as ordered by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament first came the law on determining jurisdiction, that after that, the item of the agenda was giving consent to the statutes and that no question should be raised, not legally or politically, since the Constitution as it has established and this session is taking place, and therefore Parliament will vote first on the law, and then on the Statute. I don't see any problem with that, since the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina writing and adopting the statutes did not do other people's jurisdiction, but it did its part, so neither did the law on determining jurisdiction, nor did anyone else write it, but the one who was authorized, but in that procedure one good thing was done, given that the province's secretariats were consulted, and they were done by the restoring ministries. At the end of the line, when such a complex legal act as the legal determination of jurisdiction, complex according to its structure, is done according to its legal technique, it is fully expected that this job must, if properly done, be done without a period of time. In doing so, it should not be forgotten, if you only remember parliamentary activities during this period of time, how many laws have entered into the procedure, and in part the competences which are determined by this law as original or trusted to the AP Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31816	Mr Samardzic wants to either comment or add questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31817	I'm not sure this answer was clear. I didn't understand him very well, because in the first part of the answer you were confused enough that man couldn't understand you. It is clear, however, that when a law is passed on jurisdiction and a law laying down jurisdiction that it is governed by the Constitution. He is a complex law. That's where we agree. But since the Constitution is its source, it is relatively easy, especially if it is done by experts and it is done by people who know the Constitution, thirdly, if it is done by people who are committed to the Constitution, so they do not want to exceed the constitution by doing such a law. When we look at how much that law has been done, at least ten to twelve months. Well done, twelve months from now, there was a law that finally came to parliament. Secondly, your claim was that the Vojvodina Assembly was doing some of its own act that was owned by her to do. That's how it works abstractly. If you wanted to be on time and dynamic, it was a lot easier for you, from the point of view of time, to wait for the law to be made, and then the Assembly to make a relatively easy statute, because the main part of that statute is part of the jurisdiction that determines this law. Therefore, your answer that it was complicated legally simply does not stand. My additional question is this - why did the Vojvodina Assembly do so? I know a formal response, in order to carry out my task under the Constitutional Law, to place a proposal after the constitution of the Vojvodina Assembly in 90 days. However, if it is satisfied, the greater damage is done by doing so without previous law, without law establishing jurisdiction. That was the reason, formally speaking, why it took so long. Politically, the reason was completely different, and now I wouldn't comment on it. So, my question is, why is the Vojvodina Assembly, if you can answer me because you're not in the Vojvodina Assembly, no matter what the Constitution and the law, without a basic assumption, without the existence of a law establishing jurisdiction and two other laws passed that act and put it before the government? Did she, as part of the supplemental question, play a game of facts, and given this game, we have a situation today that is completely unconstitutional, both on the same day or in two days, but again in two days discussing two different things, we bring such an important act in such a hurry?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31818	Mr. Chiplet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31819	Even at a time when I was employed in the RS Constitutional Court, I used an unconstitutional epithet - really extremely delicately and on rare occasions. If I was confused, I'd try to be much more reasonable right now. So, if you're asking why was the time when the AP Vojvodina statute was brought in, it was done because the Constitutional Law imposed it. If you have one institution in the RS at the level of an autonomous province that is important, if you have an institution that respects that deadline, then you have nothing to honour that institution which has respected that constitutional deadline as an objection. That's one thing. It's another thing. It's also a very premise situation that both acts, and that's quite logical, at the same time she wrote, and at the same time she came to the Assembly. So there doesn't have to be any big time difference between the law and the statutes, like there isn't. At the very end of the line, when I say it's a complex act, it's complicated by a lot of things. When it comes to such a law that speaks of a large number of competences, i.e. a large number of jobs, such a law must define these matters. Such a law cannot be written by lawyers of general practice. Such a law must be written by the people who do these work in these vaults. That's where there's a lot of people involved. A large number of tasks that make up jurisdiction actually speak about that law being written and complicated because of the participation of a large number of people, because of the great time spent and finally because at that moment, if you really wanted to have a great law, which will not lead to a dispute over jurisdiction, when I say a dispute over jurisdiction, it means that you will not engage the Constitutional Court, so if you want to have no problem with the functioning of the Republic, with the functioning of the province's authorities, then you have to do this demarcation of jobs as precisely as possible. Business isn't easy, so the answer can't even be simple. I repeat, and that is most important for the citizens, the procedure imposed by the Constitution, which is to be first passed by law, and then confirmed by the statute, will be respected. If it is a matter of constitutional quality, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia can very easily from those who have been authorised by the motions to receive an initiative or a proposal for an assessment of constitutionality and to resolve the dispute as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31820	Does Mr Samardzic want to make a statement about the answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31821	Mr. Minister, the Constitutional Court will certainly have to deal with both the law and the statutes, and I'm telling you completely reliably, but we can't act like the Constitutional Court is the only instance that can talk about this or deal with this. In fact, this parliament is an instance that needs to be dealt with first and foremost. It is a parliament that adopts laws that must comply with the Constitution. Furthermore, it is not only the parliament of institutions that should deal with this, but also public opinion, the public, and the professional public above all. Therefore, I will remind you of the arguments made by the professional public on this matter, although it is not a direct answer to what you have said. As far as the time difference is concerned, that time difference doesn't exist and you know it well. Having one session with two agendas from the point of view of this job is no time difference. It's the same moment. Time had to be left, at least as theoretically imagined, that some of the provisions of that law would be such that the statutes had to be brought into line with them, and then had to leave time for legal-technical harmonisation of the statutes with the law. It is something that the form implies and therefore it was necessary to have two sessions, not two agenda points at the same session. As for the law you speak of in a delicate way, which has long been done because it is complicated, because it has a lot of jurisdiction etc., firstly, here I have argued that many MPs - the law is a largely prescribed statute. But what's more important at this point is that the version of the law you gave in some half-public discussion in March of this year, that is, it was not clear what the status of that draft was and that it was very little different from this version that you gave us nine months later. So there was another problem there, and I think it's a problem with some difficult political alignment among the players who did it. It wasn't a matter that lawyers and experts couldn't solve, it was a matter that you couldn't solve for each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31822	Mr. Dragan Todorovic has a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, I ask the question to all those who have received this letter, including you, Mrs. Dejanovic, although you avoid admitting these letters. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister and various ministries, and this is a request for a review of the privatisation of the capital value of the company AD Seceran "Unity" Kovacica. Small shareholders launched this procedure in 2009 in the seventh month, they delivered it to the court in Panchev. To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia what it is and to be able to look at all the scales of the robbery that was committed, I am particularly interested - which of these consulting firms carried out an evaluation of the value of the sugar shop in Kovacica? He says: "The company's pre-privitation situation: the main activity of the company was sugar production, the number of employees 190, the number of shareholders 390, the total capital on the day of the conclusion of the purchase contract on 18 October 2002 was 164,832,500 dinarali 2,679,541 euros, and 98, 85% was social capital, 0.15% was action capital. The privatisation method - the social company Šecerana "The Unity" Kovacica was privatized on 18 October 2002, the tender sales method, the purchase contract was concluded with AD Šecerana "The Unity" Kovacica, the Privatisation Agency, and, the award question, "MK Komerc" DOO for the transport of goods to large, imports and exports. The buyer bought 70% of the total social capital of the company, which was presented with 115,209 shares. This share of capital was paid by the buyer by the amount, again the prize issue -- three euros. Three euros, all three euros. The social programme -- the buyer took over the investment obligation for the period from 2003 to 2007 totalling 7,841,000 euros. Dynamics: In 2003 1,700,000, 2004 1.500,000, 2005 1,440,000, 2006 1.550,000, here's Chad already knows what was in the warehouse and in 2007 1,650,000. So the total value of the social programme for a period of five years is determined by the amount...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31824	Time, thank you. Do any of the members of the government want to give an answer to Mr. Todorovic? No, I don't. We'll forward the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31825	No, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31826	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: Don't, I have five minutes, which is additional time, as a folk MP. ( b) Do you have an answer to comment or to ask a further question? No, please, you have the form of an additional question, if you like, you have the right to do so. Do you want to? Yeah. ) Would you like to ask a further question, so to speak? Say, please, just so you want it and you have the word to Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31827	The value of the company's capital according to the balance sheet. Experts, and among other things, the experts appointed by the court are gentlemen (after which I will find their names), estimated the total value of the sugarcane and said this way: "The contract on the purchase of social capital is concluded in accordance with the law. 70% of the company value was sold. '"This amount is about 7,848,000. He says, "According to the revised documentation, the buyer failed to fulfil the agreed obligations, but to amend and supplement the contract on the purchase of social capital through a public tender on 16 May 2006, all of its unfulfilled commitments, which were then 1,424,032 euros, transferred to another legal person in this dispute and to the defendant "Sunoko" DOO Novi Sad. According to the revised documentation, the expert committee considers that this process of selling social capital has been carried out in accordance with the Public tender Regulation. However, the failure was that 70% of the value of the social capital of sugar was valued in 1997, five years ago." I'm surprised it wasn't 1956, maybe it wasn't built sugarcane, it'd be even cheaper than three euros? He says, "The buyer has reduced its obligations to the reconstruction and modernisation of the sugarcan to 3,983,000 euros by changing the Annex from 24 February 2005 to 24 February 2005. But the total value of the stock and everything that the buyer MK Komerc took, when complete insight is carried out, is 20.708,491 euros. Here, citizens of Serbia, look how you've been robbed in the past nine years. That is why the value of the total asset held by Serbia, estimated at 30 billion to 40 billion euros, was sold for only two billion and seven hundred thousand euros. Why is the value of 20m euros sold for three euros? That's 6,690,262 times less than the actual value. What about the capital of small shareholders? What the government will do in this case, since it has promised to cancel all the privatisations that have been made, and the purchase contracts are not respected, they will cancel. There's a request here in the seventh month, and to this day there's no answer. How to respond when Mirko Cvetkovic was first assistant or deputy finance minister, then the director of the Privatisation Agency, and all the time he normally had a gig at Ces Mekon, or these were his gigs, so he could function. Since I still have a little time to use it, regarding today's exposure to the SPC letter, because of Serbian citizens. Here, this is the seal, this is a picture of the bishop of Bačka Irinej (shows the newspaper), a letter from SPC and says, "Remarked Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, as the eternal guardian of Serbia etc." Now, Mrs. Djukic, send a letter to the bishop and ask if this was published or not, so that the citizens of Serbia can determine who was telling the truth and who wasn't telling the truth. As far as Mr. Martinovic is concerned, he has brought this information out on the basis of these facts alone, and that information is completely accurate, and you have turned it around, possibly counting on the establishment of an auto-Cefal duchy church when this Statute of Vojvodina is adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31828	Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31829	I would first ask the Minister of Telecommunications to answer the question that we have been asking here for almost a month, and I hope, in part, that at least you will be able to answer us, given that, as Minister Resolutely in the Government, you have probably been more familiar with some of your other colleagues and colleagues in the process that marked the acquisition of part of the capital of the company "Informatics". Given that such a thing has been made possible by the government's decision, "Srbigas" is a company currently recording losses of 170m euros within an unusual period for all other actions by the government of the Republic of Serbia or the board of directors of the "Serbia". It would be good for you to tell us what kind of public interest the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken over or understood, so that we could protect in the business of the Informatics company, since nothing else must be a motive for the government of the Republic of Serbia, and so far we have not been able to hear such a thing from the Prime Minister, Mr Cvetkovic, nor from the finance minister, Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, nor from the resolute Minister of Energy, Mr Skundric? I think that "Informatics" is part of at least in the jurisdiction of you as a resolute minister, so it would be good for you to answer the question -- what was the government doing when it gave consent to "Serbigas", a company that records the loss of 170m euros, that at the height of nearly three million euros buys the shares of the company "Informatics", which is completely private at that moment, and so does something just before the takeover of "Serbigas" by Gazprom, which is why we practically funded the job for the account and in the interest of another country. So far, we haven't gotten an answer to that question, so would it be good for you to tell us what you were doing when you voted for it? Why does it matter to us? Because we have been talking here for more than a year about all the jobs that follow the energy sector in the Republic of Serbia. We pointed out the unsustainable privatisation of NIS, to the damage that would follow. Everything that happened in the meantime confirmed our argument. We have indicated the harmfulness and unsustainability of the decision that Serbia has withdrawn from "Yugorosgas", and today we are familiar with the balance sheet data for this year, according to which "Yugorosgas" is, for example, the Elektroprivred Serbia, "Srbigas", Delta, etc., a company with the largest income in the country and one company with the largest profit of nearly two billion dinars. What was the interest of the Republic of Serbia to leave the action control package to the Russian partner for four million dollars, if in this year alone, the company records a profit of 20m euros? I'll stop here, after you answer me, then I'll comment on your answer and ask one more question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31830	Mrs. Jasna Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31831	I really couldn't tell you what the public interest was, and as you said correctly, it's not in our ministry's jurisdiction, but in the jurisdiction of both finance and energy. As far as I know, at the last session when MPs asked parliamentary questions, the prime minister handed a written reply to your colleague, Judith Popovic, on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31832	Do you want to comment on the answer or ask the additional question? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31833	Mrs Matic, we will easily agree on the part of this problem, but what is unacceptable for you and for me, not as individuals, but as representatives of institutions, government and assembly, is running away from the problem. I'm sure every member of the government knows very well the reasons why the government got involved in the problem of Information. It is true that Prime Minister Cvetkovic sent us a written reply, but after that written answer he himself asked Mr. Pera, as he called it here, I mean Energy Minister Petar Skundric, to answer the question, since the answer in writing was incomplete. To date, neither we nor the Prime Minister, Minister Skundric has welcomed the response. What exactly is this about? It is a government intervention that protects one of the minority stakeholders of Informatics, by allowing the government, or "Srbigas", to take the actions that were broadcast for a known buyer, for "Srbigas", making the country's taxpayers' money, the money of the company, which is minus 170m euros, used to protect the minority shareholders of a private company at that time. That's what this is about, Mrs Matic, and you know it very well. "Informatics" deals with information technologies. She's engaged in some of this country's public enterprises. At this point, the "Informatics" that went out of the PUPS pensioner's pocket, for example, is from their pocket, from Mr. Sutanovac's Ministry of Defence's pocket, because we saw him sign the contracts and says it would be great to go "Ponics," but we don't have three or four million as long as it takes to clean it up. Why do we have for Informatics and we don't have for the Poniks? Why don't we have Mr. Dulic? We will agree on our own efforts to build a budget for his ministry. We have nearly 250 black spots in Serbia. Not to mention the Ministry of Agriculture. So, for all these urgent changes, we don't have the money, and in the day, we react without delay to protect the interests of a private company and we can't get an answer to the question - why? We may agree that it is necessary, but as long as the government doesn't tell us why it has allowed "Srbigas" to buy for three million euros the actions of a private company that have been broadcast directly for "Serbiagas", we won't be able to agree on the role played by you and we play. At this point we see ourselves as protectors of public interest, and you as someone who is an accomplice to a job that is hiding at the moment and whose reasons and motives are hidden from the eyes of the public. That's our problem, and I don't think we can talk about it. Here, answer us, it's part of your jurisdiction. You were at that government and you voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31834	Mrs. Jasna Matic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31835	I can only tell you that our Ministry of Information Technology has not said that I have no more information than you have, and as Minister of Information Technologies, I can say that there are a large number of private companies involved in this business and that, on the other hand, I do not see that the state needs to intervene directly in this sector.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31836	Mr. Jovanovic wants to make a statement about the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31837	Of course, it would be rude now to turn all of this into a tirad over the Minister of Telecommunications, since it is also in a situation where almost all the other ministers we have spoken to have answered this question. And you, of course, responded indirectly and, unfortunately, confirmed everything that we find unsustainable and unacceptable. I'm going to point out only a few data that won't allow us to accept this manner and attitude both towards Parliament and the citizens of this country. Hundreds of million euros have been invested in "NIS" from 2000 to today. Only on the basis of a regulation adopted by the government of Zoran Djindjic, the famous regulation that so deepened the gap between the DSS and the DS, which I was in at the time. About 500m euros on these grounds alone entered the "NIS" due to subsidies and donations each year to nearly 300 in certain situations, and we are today faced with the fact that "NIS" and "Srbigas" on the basis of allegedly unpaid claims from businesses in Serbia are taking over capital. So it happened with a glass maker in Paracino, but it also happened with Azotar, and some wonder happened and it happens with Belgrade power plants. When is this decided in Serbia to allow one company to solve problems in such a way and not allow others? How about those companies that have been losers for years, say Serbiagas, because they paid for politics, agreeing to non-economic prices or EPS, that before they privatise, they convert their claims to capital. Let's see if that would change the structure of these companies and maybe someone else would be interested in that privatisation. As a matter of fact, it seems to us under one privatisation that someone for 400m euros bought not only NIS and not only Serbiagas, but also bought Azotar, that he bought part of Belgrade's power plants and heat plants and who knows what else, because at some point, because this state has no power to repay debts, the new owner of NIS and Serbiagas will take over the actions of the companies they owe him. We see actually what we've been talking about all along, the fact that in one irresponsible way, practically, the space in which our incompetent state was moving is opening up to another state. To transform a dysfunctional, wrong monopoly of the Republic of Serbia at the moment into a monopoly of the Russian Federation. We can agree that the government finally came up with NIS business results for the previous year, although the shocking fact that from a 30 million plus went down to almost 100. It's even more shocking that, of course, no one should answer for it. What we can't agree on is the fact that under the table it's agreed that those who are damaged will be satisfied. This is why today we pay the highest processing price in Europe for oil derivatives. That is why today in Europe is almost the highest price of gasoline in Serbia, and diesels and each other's diesels. And that's why Mr. Dulic knows. We pay for both the most expensive and the most invaluable gasoline. What's the name of a country that forces its citizens to pay for the most expensive gasoline, which is the most toxic. It's an irresponsible state. Of course, many of those in the opposition today, not only representatives of today's current government, are responsible, but all those who brought us into that dead end must face the citizens and recognize responsibility for something like that, so that future people know what they support and who they vote for. Here we now hear examples of former privatisations, but the dates in which the wrong decisions were made are the dates that relate to the just in politics. The dates in which decisions have been made, which have been most beneficial to this country, are the dates that relate to the government of the man who was killed because he was a reformer. We can't ignore today in 2009, at its end, just because it's been almost seven years since 12 March, the fact that everything we have behind us is part of the political vision of Zoran Djindjic, and that all the junk we face is the legacy of the one who saw in his murder the political benefit for himself, and that was Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31838	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31839	My question should be addressed to a prime minister who is obviously not here. He's gone, and so is Mr. Chanak. It is likely that there is still some agreement on details, commas, exclaims and other important signs of interpolation in this separatist statute of Vojvodina. Since Serbia's current constitution is not in line with their statutes, things need to be set upside down, so the Serbian Constitution must comply with the Vojvodina statute, not vice versa. After all, my colleague Zlata Djeric has already asked, will this government change the constitution, as announced by Mr Shandor Egereshi? But it's not a basic question. The main question is what is the language and what is the letter in Serbia actually in official use? We received a letter, as a parliamentary group, from the Republic Fund for PIO, the Directorate of the Novi Sad Regional Fund, the Department of PIO, through the application of international agreements. Namely, the party requested the delivery of a photocopy of the I.D. What does the memo say? So you need to hear the language it's written on. The competent social security authority referred to this service as a ‘requirer’ to provide for a pension pension allowance review as referred to above. According to the quotes in the "gathering room", he was appointed to work in his capacity and is now explained in what capacity. Please pray that you provide this service with a copy of a personal list or a copy of the “witnesses ” or in case of a negative response, please make sure that the same copy follows because it is not in your records. I am keenly interested, before the adoption of this statute of Vojvodina and the Latin letter, what is this and what is it about? This is from 30.9.2009. Is there still a Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter in the official use of Serbia, because instead of "the hall" there is a term of application, a copy of a personal list, and I don't know what it is, and a copy of "the eyewitnesses" seems to me as an occupancy. I will be very happy to deliver this letter to the members of the government or perhaps to Mr. Cank, he is more in communication with the Prime Minister, simply to see this memo and to answer my question. The second question, of course, is referred again to someone who is absent, what a man will do when he has a job, probably running for VANU, is for the health minister, the majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31840	It's been three minutes. Do any of the ministers want to give an answer? Do you want to comment on your question, or do you want to ask an additional question, which will take place in writing?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31841	A question for this absent academic, failed, why can't the citizens of Panchev with hip disease go to Belgrade, but must they go to Vrbas? Cancer patients are referred to radiation instead of Belgrade, now in Sremska Kamenica, and it is forbidden to give, general giving instructions to Belgrade, so that a doctor who recently referred patients to Belgrade, instead of that main point -- the administrative centre of Novi Sad, was fired. Of course, just one more question; he's not going to go either, Father, so amazing. The question concerns our security services. Do our security services have an assessment of the security risk per Serbia for bringing in a statue like this? Mr. Sutanovac is gone, I can't believe it. So, good. Whether these services have information on the impact of the Munich-based Institute for Southeast Europe, or the impact of the institute on the establishment of the Vojvodina Statute. He's coming back, great.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31842	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31843	I want to ask the Government a question, although it concerns directly, in fact, all of us MPs here and the National Assembly itself. Given that the National Assembly does not have any property, that it does not decide on many of the things that are related to its work, I ask the present members of the Government – who is in charge of paying rent from the issue of this building for various purposes? How much revenue on this basis has been collected in the past and this year, that is, since the day it began to be used? Since almost every weekend there are various seminars, various professional associations, medical associations, "Milenium", the former prime minister's association also here seems to be organising occasional counselling, film shootings, various celebrations, so if staff stays here longer than scheduled working hours, and there is a problem that their overtime is not paid and charged monthly, on behalf of which they would allow me to keep small salaries of employees here so small, and that they are asked for additional engagement. If this is a building that is cared for and owned by the Government, until it passes over to the Assembly, it can't be a good will for someone, I don't claim it is, but we want to see the report, without the compensation of issuing this building for the lease for painting, the promotion of some people, organizations, etc. Who cares about that? Is he charging? What's that tariff, etc? The translators are involved here, and we have so few, the President of the Assembly knows best, because on the road I was alone with, the mahogany itself was the most successful, that even in official communication it does, that it communicates in foreign languages, and we and such people engage for the needs of others. I want to ask, are you in the government thinking about defining by law the time limit for the keeping of electronic data, for example, the property card of ministers in the government? People were answering the question – why was the 2001 property map of ministers removed from the government site? Is it because it couldn't be compared to what's now the data on their property? I don't want to insinuate and think that's the reason. Is there a regulation that sets a time limit for keeping that information unrelated to the Law of Conflict of Interest? Is that in line with that, and because of the new situation at the Privatisation Agency, where people defend that there has been no conflict of interest...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31844	Time. Does anyone want to answer to Mrs. Tabakovic? No, I don't. ) Do you perhaps want a further question to formulate? (Jorganka Tabakovic, from the place: Well, yes, the additional question... )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31845	I'm going to have to give the additional question because the Law on conflict of interest, that is, on the prevention of interest, the Anti-Corruption Act does not define precisely enough, in accordance with what is our reality, what is abuse of privileged information and position? Please, do you, as Government, think about it, given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in King Milan 14 paid rent to the Economic Institute, in due time, for the building owned by it, and that we adopted the amendment to last year's budget where the government had a month's time to make a list of its assets, that it was to manage according to priorities. This is not a surprise question for you, not an unusual phenomenon, but rather one of the priorities when choosing your government and one of the priorities of all parties participating in Serbia's political life. I think that's enough reason to go public with the answers to the questions I asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31846	MP Zeljko Tomic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31847	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and the People's MPs, where I stopped last night, I will continue now. I am sorry that there is not a finance minister Dr Diana Dragutinovic, who asked my parliamentary question on 30 April this year, and in relation to the work and control of the Fund for Capital Investments, answered and signed a black-and-white response – that the sector for budgetary inspection and audit, at the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, has so far failed to control the operations of the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, and we have no knowledge of the implementation of the control by the budgetary inspection and audit of the AP Vojvodina, which has legal powers to exercise control with the authorities and organisations whose founder of the AP Vojvodina. I remind you that the Capital Investment Fund AP Vojvodina was founded by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina in 20.12.2006 to decide on the establishment of this fund. This means that within a day of three years, how there is a Fund for Capital Investments, that is, an institution in which, to say, the people are easier to understand, the money of the Vojvodina. No one controls him and so far no one controls him, no one who is legally determined and who has the authority to do so. That is said by Serbian State Finance Minister Dr Diana Dragutinovic. My new parliamentary question is – has something changed in the meantime? Could the public of Serbia, the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the general public, both Vojvodina and Serbia, be able to know what is going on with the Fund's resources? Who controls them, how do they spend? There are numerous doubts and insinuations. There's a lot of talk going on around New Sad and all over Vojvodina, the way money comes from that fund and what it invests in. We need to know. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31848	Does anyone want to answer to Mr. Tomic? No, I don't. ( b) Do you want an additional question? Yeah. Here you go, just re-apply, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31849	Yes, of course, at the beginning of this part, so to speak, the government's interrogations, or ministers, were three ministers from Vojvodina. No one dares to answer a word on this subject, and I repeat that I am very sorry that Dr. Diana Dragutinović, the finance minister, is not here with us and I am asking for a written reply again before the three-year anniversary of the existence of the fund - how money is spent, who controls it, whether there was control or is controlled by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina itself, or by one of its own, responsible committee? We get into a situation, I like to repeat it often, according to that people's saying – the goat keeps the cabbage. I'm saving some money. Of course it's suspicious when someone's saving money, and there's no control over it. It has to be suspicious. There are a number of rumors that funds from the Fund go to election campaigns at local level, for various similar abuses, etc. on behalf of one party or on behalf of maybe two parties. There's a lot of talk going on around Novi Sad and Vojvodina, and there's no concrete answer today. Last night I asked, as once, another opposition political party - well, where is our money, we ask from Vojvodina, where is our money? Where does it go because it's from the Capital Investment Fund? When the Serbian state minister doesn't know what's going on in one part of the territory in terms of the operation of the Capital Investment Fund, in terms of money, what to know about citizens. Behold, the Messengers of the people receive, and Pytic knows. Does he know? Here, if Paytic knows, we ask him to tell us where the money is spent. Where's our money, we ask again? We expect a response from both the prime minister and Minister Diana Dragutinovic again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31850	Does anyone from the government want to? No, I don't. Mr. Free Marash has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31851	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I certainly won't say anything new, but I have to ask the questions we've been asking back a year, especially in the past few months. I am very glad that a minister who was a member of the Management Board of the Oil Industry of Serbia entered the hall at the moment in early 2008. He may be able to answer the questions we ask and to which Serbian citizens want to hear the answer. Since Mr. Skundric is not here, then I must ask you, Mr. Chiplic, you may know, since just now the Minister of Telecommunications has given an honest answer that he really doesn't know what the public interest is that the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" buys actions in Belgrade Information, but while we're at the energy sector, I have to tell you next and ask you, Mr. Chiplic. Mr. President, please, if you could ask Mr. Chiplic, as I speak directly to him, and he was a member of the Board of Directors of NIS, he might be able to give me an answer. So, you were a member of the board of directors of the monopoly firm, which was one hundred percent owned by the Republic of Serbia, which had a huge profit in 2005, 2006, 2007. She also had an unscheduled profit. We entered 2008 with an agreement with the Russian Federation, an oil-gas agreement and Serbia sold 51% to the Russian side for 400m euros. The final account of NIS was handed over, 2.3 billion to get shown. But since there are mature people in this country too, please answer me how is it possible that a company that was 20th on profit in Europe, which is NIS, after the audit requested by the Russian side and the final accounts audits carried out, is found to be over 8 billion losses? So 10 over billions of dinars have evaporated somewhere. You were in February 2008, as far as I know and later, until you became a minister, a member of the board of directors, and surely you have some knowledge of how it is possible for such a thing to happen, and I would like to hear from you who is responsible for such a thing, whether the board of directors who inherited you or (President: Time). I'll just finish the sentence. ... or the director of Mr Saramandić, who is now the director of the Pannonian Power Plants?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31852	Do any of the members of the government want to answer the question? No, I don't. ( b) Do you want a further question, or comment on everything you have spoken about yourself? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31853	With all due respect, Mr. Chiplet, I hope you don't now, when I use my right to ask a further question, answer. It's the Secretary of Energy's manners, but I'd like to ask you not to. So I asked you directly -- do you know who's responsible? You're sitting in the government, the Energy Minister said the government would launch an initiative to determine who's responsible. Mr. Chiplic, you have a company that is 100 per cent owned by Serbia's director, Saramandic, who has moved to a second job, which, citizens remember, is a question of journalists how much his salary is, he just laughed. In April, when you were a board member, the man received a bonus for the success of running the company and at the end of the year 8 billion losses. Who's gonna pay for that? We have the most expensive fuel in this part of Europe, and the worst fuel in Europe. I'm not interested in the relations the government has with the Russian side, it's responsible in the end line, but in this way to dispose of the property of Serbia, and to keep quiet about who's responsible, I think it's extremely irresponsible, irresponsible, and I'm afraid that the silence that comes from only one address, which is the Government. It's absolutely amazing that the Minister of Energy can't answer that question. He transferred the ball to the finance ministry, the Ministry of Finance to the MUP, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance again to the Ministry of Energy and so on. Our energy sector, NIS, 8 billion dinars in losses, Serbia's over 100m euros in losses. Someone is responsible for this, and it will eventually be paid by the citizens of Serbia. I'm sorry he's not here, as the Prime Minister, Mr. Pera, would say, so he'd feel the same way about these questions for who knows which time. Interestingly, you certainly know that, while you were on the Board of Directors of NIS, the Assistant Minister of Energy was Mr. Salesanovic. He was succeeded by Mr. Skundric, and now the same Mr. Svedovic, who was promised that Ubpok would enter the "Serbiagas" and check out all the allegations we made, was employed by the company for whose interests he worked as an assistant minister of energy and as director of "Energogas". It's been three minutes for me, and I hope you won't answer now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31854	You were entitled to five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31855	Maybe someone's really bored and we really don't want to label anyone, we're just asking an open question. So someone has to be responsible for it. Mr. Chiplic, the other day, in which I give you a confession, very bravely, unlike some who are also members of the government, you have defended here a law on the transfer of jurisdiction, but on one such issue, which is extremely simple -- how it is possible that a company that is in October at 20th place in Europe, in two months you would be an incredible loser, or you wouldn't have been a loser if you hadn't sold to the Russians 51% and it wasn't someone who understands their business to look at what's going on, so he saw that instead of 2.3 billion, we were 8 billion in losses. Someone's responsible. I wish there was a Home Secretary and a Deputy Prime Minister, to ask him what he would do about it. I wish there was a minister of justice, that there was a minister of energy, that there was a prime minister, but I believe that they've been brought up to be asked such questions, that they're ashamed to keep quiet, to look us in the eye and to be silent 20 times. I must tell you that we will not give up on these questions until we have a meaningful answer, and as long as we do not see that something has been done to reveal who is responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31856	Do any of the members of the government want it? No, I don't. Mr. Paja Momchilov has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31857	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know exactly who to ask my question to, but still to resolve my inconceivability, I'm asking it to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and to the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Dacic. In the course of last week, I asked twice questions that I had not received any answers, and the questions are related to the current situation concerning the flu epidemic that was declared in our country. To be exact, I asked a question about getting the vaccine. Of course I didn't get any answers. Honestly, and I don't expect to get that answer or get it, eventually, when the epidemic passes. Namely, what's my question? I ask the government, the prime minister directly and his deputy, what will he do to shed light on all the facts relating to the acquisition of the disputed Novartis vaccine? What are the new facts that you can find in today's press? If you are reading "Kurir", if you are reading "The Voice of the Public", you will see that now the Immunological Bureau of Croatia appears and the domestic company "De-tap", which is included in the supply chain of this vaccine. Let me just remind you, according to the information provided at the official press conferences, both the Republic Insurance Office, which ran the tender and at a series of press conferences by the current minister, it has been pointed out that it was negotiated with Novartis. With Novartis it seems absolutely not. What does that mean? I am free to say that it is a robbery, a minimum of six million euros, to be paid by citizens of Serbia, and I ask that these circumstances be clearly examined. What is Yugoslavia doing here? It is known that Novartis has been authorised by the Croatian Institute of Immunology for the Balkans, that he is an authorised representative. It is known, according to this gentleman from Valjev, Petrovic, that his firm "De-tap" is a representative in Serbia and Novartis and the Croatian Institute. What was Yugoslavia looking for? Please make that clear. And that difference in price between Croatia, as Croats say 6.5 euros, and with us, the price is more than eight euros in vaccines. We've experienced the minister today saying that flu is a new disease. We've experienced him telling us that since it's a new disease, he has to be vaccinated in a different way, because that vaccine violates the rule that brought it to the Ministry, that only entire vaccine and split vaccines for children can be used. This vaccine is neither. What I'm trying to say is...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31858	It's been three minutes. Does anyone want to give an answer? No, I don't. ( b) Do you want an additional question? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31859	The second question here must also be answered by the government - does the government feel responsible for failing to train Torlak, the Virological Institute, to be able to make our own vaccine, thanks to the tradition it has, because they have capable experts, people who can do it? I've got two reports in my hand. One is Croan Agency and the other is Eurohealth. This has been given a great deal of money to make reports, one is from 2004 and I will read the conclusion of the agency that reads like this – the Recommendation; the Ministry of Health should seriously consider accepting options and actively looking for a 12m-euro loan to Torlak, whose guarantee will be the state. The loan will be sufficient to ensure that this Serbian Institute of Immunology and Virology improves its main product to a level of good manufacturing practice, as well as to increase export potential. The credit is also enough to create a profit that will cover the return of money invested, as well as to create funds for new products and production lines after 2008. This is what Europe said. This is what the citizens of Europe gave money for in 2003 and 2004. It was known in 2005 that we had a pandemic coming. Why didn't she invest the state? Here's the difference. Someone's gonna make six million euros. Since 2000, you have not wanted to be a prominent institution, the Virusological Institute for Immunology "Torak", and the World Health Organization, if you go to its site and see manufacturers this year, the vaccines, listed Torlak as an institution that it considers capable of, among the 30 others in the world that can do this vaccine. You're playing with the health of Serbian citizens, and you're playing hard. The third question or question that follows from all of this is - is it true that our drug quality control institute is investigating a Chinese vaccine? If so, is there any possibility that we citizens, according to unverified data, but reliable, from professional circles, have heard that the two countries in the environment have given the vaccine for questioning, are looking for on behalf of the SRS, citizens, my child, the pregnant women I treat, that the government is engaged and that it finds ways and opportunities to make a better and cheaper vaccine for the citizens of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31860	Does anyone want to answer the supplemental question? No, I don't. ) The word is Mr. Zoran Nikolic. You'll have to do it again, you didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31861	I hope this does not go into the habit of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that not wanting to degrade the present ministers, otherwise, I would like to commend these ministers who are here today, but with all due respect to them, it is simply impossible to communicate with the Government if there is no Prime Minister here, although it is impossible to communicate with him and when he is present, and it is also impossible if we do not have any of the four vice-presidents of the government and what are important resolutions, first of all, the portfolio of finance, so there are absolutely no representatives here, so this conversation is deaf. So this is where the questions have been asked for an hour, an hour and a half, and absolutely no one answers them. It's really a bit bizarre. I'd like to appeal to you, as president, that next Thursday, which will be 25 December, but I don't think we're going to be working then, so next time, you'll really have the presence of both Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, so we can get adequate answers. There's nothing left for me but, let's just say, in the hope that any minister will get the strength and the courage to answer, to ask them what they had for lunch today, so I can get an answer, that the public at least hears what they had for lunch today. It's a joke on the side. When we talk about the statute, and I'm going to talk about it, I hope that, when it comes to the transfer of jurisdiction and agriculture, there is Minister Dragin, what I would like to hear from Mr. Minister of Agriculture, is - should these transferred powers, in your opinion, be in line with the agricultural policy of the Republic of Serbia and with the strategy for the development of Serbia's agriculture? A very brief and clear question. That's for starters, and I'll have a question later for Minister Chiplic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31862	Mr. Sasha Dragin, Minister of Agriculture. Here you go, Dr. Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31863	I would like to thank my fellow Members of the People for the matter. What I can say is that in the EU, the problem of jurisdiction in the area of agriculture is solved in such a way as to require that the register of agricultural producers, or land register, is located in one place, because it is a basic means of granting subsidies, and so to say, in federal jurisdiction, that is, in this case, the Republic, while other competences can be brought down to a local level and are very often brought down purely due to efficiency and practicality. In doing so, we have largely maintained a second degree decision in some other jurisdiction in such a way that there are no problems in the performance of our duties in the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31864	Mr. Nikolic, would you like to ask a further question?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31865	I'm not happy with the answer. I asked the question - do you believe that these powers passed on to the province, by the Law on the Transfer of Jurisdiction, or by determining jurisdiction, do you consider that they should be an integral part of the Agrarian Policy Strategy of the Republic of Serbia? That's what I asked, and I asked for a concrete answer, but I didn't get it. What I want to ask as a question to Mr Chiplic and to get the answer you tried to give two days ago but unsuccessfully, concerns the constitutionality of national minorities, the new national identity, as we see from the provisions they write in the law, although the Constitution of Serbia essentially foresees the constitutionality of Serbian citizens who are holders of sovereignty, according to our Constitution, and sets Serbia as a state of the Serbian people and all its citizens who live in it, naturally guaranteeing members of national minorities additional rights in order to achieve full equality. The Statute of the AP Vojvodina, as proposed, introduces the constitutionality of national minorities, turning national minorities into national communities, thus turning the Serb people into a national community. I want to hear your interpretation of this part of the law and the statutes. We believe that this is contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, to introduce the general term of the national community as a new constitutional element, and we also believe that this fact, as well as the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, as well as the Latin version of the Serbian language, besides the already existing symbols, is a flag, coat of arms, etc., will be in fact in the position of creating a new national identity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31866	Mr. Minister Svetozar Ciplic wants to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31867	The National MP, as you know, the AP Vojvodina Statute cannot be established, and the question is whether this act is establishing something new and comparing the AP Vojvodina statutes with constitutionality, the foundation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is completely deplaced and in a legal sense absolutely cannot find this parallel. You cannot equalise the legal power of the Constitution and the legal power of the statutes. I find it unusual that you're doing it now, it's on one side. On the other hand, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in its part concerning the constitutional rights of national minorities, has largely been a reform and reformist constitution, and if the lawyers dealing with the Constitution at the time of the adoption of this constitution had objections to certain parts, then, in any case, the minority-rights part of it has been commended absolutely on the guarantees of minority rights. What am I talking about? I am not only talking about the content, about the guarantee, about the guarantees that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia gives to members of national minorities, but also about mechanisms. One of these mechanisms we were fortunate to adopt at the end of August this year, and these are national advices, but also in other mechanisms that it foresees, and one of these mechanisms, and hence probably confusion or poor interpretation when it comes to the Statute of the AP Vojvodina, is also the right of an autonomous province to introduce additional rights with its acts. That's what the founder predicts. The constitutionalist allows it. Therefore, it is not disputed that the AP Vojvodina statute, which is an AP Vojvodina act, can thus improve minority rights. In that sense, what is the quality of this Constitution, and what is obviously derived from that Constitution through the statutes of the AP Vojvodina, I see no reason why it would be necessary to attack and see why such an obvious thing, which is proud to us all, is to criticise at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31868	Would you like to make a statement about the answer? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31869	I just want to make one more finding. You're very good at explaining your views, so you're giving us an additional argument to figure out what this is really about. The Constitution gives the Autonomous province the right to establish additional rights. That's not what this is about, it's about putting in a national community term and turning Serbian people as a constituent people, according to the Constitution of Serbia, into national communities. That is why we are loud and clear to you, I must take this opportunity, because while Mrs. Comic presides that word is forbidden, and that word is that this is essentially a separatist act and that the fruit of trade is divided into DS and that it is the product of the victory of the duchy part of the DS. This is what every citizen well-intentioned in this Serbia, I firmly believe, after these three days of debate absolutely knows and accepts as the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31870	Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31871	The president, the honourable ministers, Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, are being raised by the ministerial composition and now the ministers I wanted to ask are not here, so I'm going to have to rephrase one, and the other I'm going to ask the absent minister anyway. A brief introduction. During the visit of Russian Federation President Medvedev, Deputy Prime Minister and First Vice-President and Interior Minister Mr Ivica Dacic and Mr Sergei Sojgu, Minister of Emergency, signed an agreement on a Niš base, a base for emergency situations, quick interventions or whatever, not military but such a civilian base. I wanted to ask Minister Sutanovec if he knows any more details about it, because simply because it's not a military base I don't think anything can be a secret, but that's why I'm asking any of you now because you're members of the government -- did you discuss the details of this agreement and adopt it? I'm asking this out of a simple fact because giving a piece of territory or, let me say, sovereignty, that's the favorite word of many in this room, some other country, which is a base, whatever it is not a military base, implies a lot of things, such as whether security, if not our citizens, is carrying weapons, how much that country pays for renting that base or that country, who conducts an investigation if something happens inside, whether our organs or their organs. These are the things I'm sure should be specified before the treaty is signed, so since there is no Sutanovec, Secretary of Defense, I'm asking you if you've discussed this in the government? Simple question, yes or no? I won't be long anymore. If Minister Markovic were here, and I hope he did, and maybe he went to freshen up, I'd ask him next. How many ministerial assistants are there in the government and how many of them aren't passed the state exam? Because of the viewers, by law, the assistant minister must have passed a state exam, and if the lawyer must have passed a judicial exam. So how many are there in total? I know it's being measured by dozens, I just don't know the exact number. How many of them have not passed a state or judicial exam, what is a legal obligation? For all of you, did you discuss in the government the base before signing the agreement, and for Minister Markovic, if he is in the hallway, simply how many of those who do not meet the legal conditions to be ministerial assistants?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31872	Do any of the ministers want to give an answer? No, I don't. Do you have a further question, Mr. Stable?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31873	I really don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31874	National MP Nikola Žutić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31875	I would like to ask the MP's question again, Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic, since I am not satisfied with the previous answer. At the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly, I asked the question – how is it possible that the Law Faculty of Union University, as the right of an anti-national institution that destroys traditional Serbian legal science, works legally in the state of Serbia. Unfortunately, the minister only gave me one more administrative response on the establishment, on the fulfilment of working conditions, competencies and accreditation. He further stated that this educational and scientific institution is carrying out its work in accordance with the law, guaranteed by the principle of academic freedoms, under which, in accordance with Article 5 of the Law, freedom of research and artistic creation, including freedom of research and public presentation of results and scientific achievements, then freedom of choice of methods and interpretation of teaching content and freedom of choice of study programmes. So, under the principle of academic freedoms, the law does not allow free, irresponsible endangerment of the state and national foundations of traditional science, traditional morality. Uncontrollable so-called academic freedom can simply contribute to anarchy in society. Therefore, it is necessary and occasional intervention of the state administration, i.e. the competent minister, who should represent in his portfolio the highest state authority, which is being implemented, to remind me, by strict adherence to the state law. Ministers should be exclusively guided by the interests of the services and interests of the state's survival. Educational work can, especially in young people, develop a patriotic feeling that strengthens national unity through national education. This country seems to have forgotten the elemental national educational work by running into mondial Eurocentre aspirations. Article 4 of the law on the principles of higher education at point 5 requires the mitigation of the humanistic and democratic values of European and national traditions. That point in the law, unfortunately, is not more detailed. However, a failure to respect national traditions is being conducted by the Faculty of Law of the University of Union. The Faculty of Law of the University of Union is a legal institution of international dissidents from the state's law school, which is characterized by unsustainable and inappropriate criticism towards the Serbian state, traditional legal institutions and traditional churches, especially towards the SPC. I find that the action of the mentioned private college... (President: Time. It's been three minutes. I haven't been able to understand the specific question. Just one more sentence. That's why I'm asking the question again -- how is it possible that such a problematic high science institution can freely conduct education and education in the state of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31876	Does anyone want to answer this question? (No) Do you want to use the right to an additional question? Up to five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31877	Since the minister isn't here, I'd still wait for an answer. But I should point out that Union, unfortunately, is not the only international university. And my Faculty of Philosophy, the Department of History, also has a professorial chamber that often presents history with some mythological, often large Croatian sides, so that the revision of historical knowledge should be applied as much as possible in colleges, especially in the schools of social sciences. I wouldn't have anything else, just to have the minister answer my parliamentary question in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31878	The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31879	I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. In fact, the Prime Minister said several months ago that agriculture in exchange with abroad has achieved a surplus of about 300m euros in the first six months. That sounds nice. What, though, do we have if our agriculture is destroyed and is increasingly destroyed from day to day? I would refer to the protests of agricultural producers that were during the campaign primarily raspberries, cherry, wheat, etc. You know, Minister, you've been involved in the Malian protest. They started with Ariel, where I come from, Ariel's the center of the raspberries. Unsatisfactory at the price of raspberries, producers came from Aryl to Belgrade. In front of the Belgrade government, they were returned to Ariel, with a promise that an agreement would be reached there. No deal has been reached. It's agreed that the talks continue at Uzic. Negotiations at Uzic did not take place, were moved and scheduled to Valjevo. There was a meeting in Valjev on September 4th. It is agreed that within ten days, the ministry will come out with a statement to the raspberries producers what awaits them. Not a day-to-day raspberries producers have information about their price of raspberries, or negotiations between the Ministry, on the one hand, raspberries producers and refrigerators who bought raspberries. That's one question. The second question is for the Minister of Telecommunications. By how long will the cable systems, KDS systems operating in Serbia's cities, function largely without respected basic technical regulations applicable to the area, mean, without meeting the basic technical regulations applicable to the area? The example works, Ariel, the SBB cable system has been functioning for six years without meeting these basic functional standards. With the opposition protesting with me, the inspector had to issue a restraining order. That was two years ago, and that system still works.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31880	Mr. Minister Sasha Dragin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31881	I would like to thank the honourable People's MP for the matter. The Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the state in no country can define the prices of agricultural products and sometimes, even though we are very sorry that these prices are low, we simply do not have the mechanisms to influence them. Also, at one point, the Ministry of Agriculture tried to help representatives of the Malian Association and to organise a conversation between private coolants and representatives of the association. Following talks, representatives of the association made a statement in writing that they were satisfied with what the Ministry of Agriculture did in their responsibilities for them, however, they were still not satisfied with the deal they had with the coolants. These talks were continued between the coolants and themselves representatives of the Malian Association. What the Ministry of Agriculture is trying to do, is to form a system of public warehouses, which will enable farmers to be relaxed compared to when they need to sell their products, by being able to store their products in public warehouses, where they will determine the quality and quantity, and on that basis they will be able to get, and they can already get, in the field of warfare, of course, loans. Not based on a mortgage on land or on a house or on some other property, but based on its product, to move into the next production cycle, and sell their goods at the time when it suits them most. As for the problems encountered by the producers of the cherry this year, the problem was not related to the Ministry of Agriculture, but we came out to help these people for the simple reason that in Merošina the largest freezer that has bought the cherry for a year has been closed. This company is social, and we have made an effort to reprogramme their debts along with the Ministry of Economy and help to approve loans for the company, so that they can buy those cherries from farmers. I'm glad we made it there. As far as the wheat producer is concerned, as you probably know, this year's earliest subsidy paid per hectare for wartime producers of 12,000 dinars was already made at the end of August. We have explained to farmers who have had a problem and I believe that this was indeed a disastrous year for the price of wheat, that unfortunately we cannot decide on the price and that we simply cannot affect the price of agricultural products, which, as everywhere in the world, forms on the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31882	First Mrs. Jasna Matic to answer you, so I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31883	Thank you very much for asking. As you know, in the area of telecommunications responsibilities are divided between the Ministry, which has jurisdiction over the adoption of laws, strategies and policies in the area of telecommunications, while market regulation and technical supervision are carried out by a regulatory body, which is an independent Republic Telecommunications Agency. The Republic Agency for its work answers the Assembly and I would like to invite you to refer that question to them. What I could say is that in the past little less than a year and a half, the Ministry has worked intensively with the Republic Agency to produce a large number of sublegal acts, precisely in order to create an appropriate regulatory framework that will lead to a state of greater respect for the law, than we have found and which is still saddened by this moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31884	Mr. Nikolic wants an additional question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31885	Minister, you were completely in the process of protesting the raspberries. You've even promised people and whoever led those protests a criminal report, I don't know why. Were those threats for the next period? So I'd like you to give us an answer, it's raspberries producers, now at this point, specifically raspberries, they expect -- what's the vision for next year? Will that price be getting lower and lower, as announced, or will people have the will and desire to do the raspberries next year? This possibility exists through public warehouses, but the raspberries are not just a warehouse, but there must be refrigerators of purpose, which will be able to perform that function. That could have been done this year. However, this has not been done because there are many freezers that you have funded from the ministry with half a million euros, which do not work. It is the “Villamet” cooler in the parables of Ivanjica, the “Arinova” cooler in Aryl. You funded them with half a million euros. But at this point, they're not working.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31886	There's a word Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31887	Your Honor, I have not personally funded anyone with half a million euros. You probably had the wrong information. As for investment investments that existed from 2004 to 2006, I am sorry that they do not exist now, when they were given quite high funds for the coolant. Unfortunately, this year I didn't have enough budget funds to start such investments. I sincerely hope we can launch such investments in the future. As for the funds we need, they are mainly in European funds. These are the Ipard Funds and for this reason we adopted the Agricultural and Rural Development Act this year and established the Agrarian Payments Administration, an institution that is needed for these funds to be accepted. What we expect and what is about the funds that can enter Serbia, based on these European funds, when we lend to the Agency for Agricultural Payments, is exactly the funds between 50m and 60m euros per year. That's what's very important that we can win. The public storage system is a system that only prefers or equalises prices over the year and allows farmers to decide when to sell their product, because if you sell the product in a short period of time of one month, when everyone tries to sell the product, the offer on the market is higher and the price is lower. The system of public storage not only suits farmers themselves, but also suits refrigerators. For what reason? Mostly because they don't have to prepare all the money to pay off farmers during that month. For this reason, we also signed a contract with the EBRD, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and those who take loans through the public storage system, receive these loans with 3% interest on an annual basis, which you will agree to somewhere two or three times less than the projected inflation, is really worth it. I repeat, I don't suppose you've heard me for the first time that the state has no system to affect the prices of agricultural products. You asked me, what do I think and what will be the price next year? First of all, it would be rude, rude and unfair for agricultural producers to speculate on prices, because probably any person who knows or who might know what the price of a agricultural product will be in the next year or two years would certainly not be working here, but would be on the Chicago Stock Exchange and making billions of dollars a year. Nobody in the world knows that. The best analysts who have made market analysis programmes cannot predict how the prices of certain agricultural products will move, since agriculture is a factory under the clear sky. It is affected not only by human factor but also by time, season, supply, demand, as well as other branches of the economy, as you know, for example, oil prices have a lot to do with agricultural production, especially oil prices. A similar problem is with other agricultural products. I can say that it's always worth investing in technology, which will allow agricultural production costs to decrease, because that way you can be more competitive at a lower price. I would very much like to see agricultural producers who are united, who can get funds, which of the state, which of the European funds in a very recent time, so they could enter large investments such as refrigerators and in such a way as to be independent from refrigerators, who at this point are the only ones who can buy their products.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31888	Would you like to make a statement about the answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31889	Minister, I see you didn't understand me. I didn't say that you gave half a million for these two freezers, but the Ministry of Agriculture, through the Development Fund, invested in those two freezers in 2005 and 2006, it's not just those two, just mentioning them, that kind of money, and they're not working right now, they're in dubiosis, they're having problems. Therefore, the state must keep an eye on how it spends money. As for subsidies, ministers, last year subsidies were in the Ministry of Agriculture for Agricultural Producers and Agriculture 25 billion, and this year 15 billion. How can we expect, as farmers, farmers can expect better days, more money in any form – whether for agricultural products, seedlings, whether for technology, whether for warehouses or for freezers? What about our apple production? How far in this country has Serbia failed this year? What is the price and why have we brought our country into such a position? There was exports to Russia, this year there is no exports to Russia – who is to blame? What does he expect us to do for potato manufacturers? We've got goods coming in from other countries, and our producers can't sell goods. What can producers expect next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31890	The word of Mrs. Verica Radeta, the MP of the people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31891	Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will not say I am sorry, but it is inappropriate for only three ministers to sit here in this section for communication between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs. This is indeed another great humiliation of the National Assembly by the Prime Minister and members of the Government, of course I don't mean you who are here. This certainly goes to the President of the National Assembly, because she should never have allowed this session to take place. What I want to ask is a letter sent to the Ministry of Education, the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification, the Republic and the Regional Public Prosecutor's Office and the Council for the Combating Corruption of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a university called the Faculty of European Legal and Political Studies. According to this letter, the university is a stateless higher education institution and is based in Novi Sad, which is precisely in Sremska Kamenica, 2nd Street. The owner of this university is a certain Jelena Šogorov, and this Jelena Šogorov is an assistant at the university, i.e. a co-worker in the course. What is interesting about this university and Mrs. Shogorov, is that this university is located in a centuries-old castle that is culturally good, spatial-cultural historical continent of great importance, so defined. The castle was recently represented by "Vode Vojvodina", and one of the directors of "Vode Vojvodina" was Mrs. Mira Shogorov, the mother of Jelena Shogorov, and that lady's mother has betrayed her daughter for some, as it stands here, the enormous amount of this castle that is under cultural protection. The first question within these three minutes that I want to ask you gentlemen from the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, firstly, how is it possible that on this "trange france" private level, so private that it's a level between mother and daughter, it's a state property issue? The question - at what price was issued that castle, which could not otherwise have been the object of the lease?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31892	Three minutes. Thank you. Do any of the members of the government, the government's representative, want to give an answer? Yeah. ) Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31893	I can't really say anything, except that I know about where the director and assistant at the Duke's Waters is, and I don't know that Mrs. Shogor's director is in the Vode of Vojvodina. Don't mind, I mean, if I'm not mistaken, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31894	Do you want to comment on the answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31895	I hope, Minister, that after this comment, you will have some answer, because I will remind you that in this castle, which I am talking about, which is located in Sremska Kamenica, 2nd Street Dvor, there is the Documentation Centre "Voda Vojvodine" "Nikola Mirkov" whose direct manager, Mrs. Mira Šogorov, is the mother of Jelena Šogorov. I hope this helped you, so later on, I assume you'll tell me if you have any knowledge of it. What I would further like to ask within these five minutes, with two questions, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of course, as I always do, on the basis of the consent of the Accreditation Commission and the Republic Council for the Development of University Education and Decision 489/2004, the Ministry of Education and Sports of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Education of the AP Vojvodina has granted the permission to work on that Mrs Jelena Shogorov, daughter of Mira Shogorov, to the solution 07/19/2005 which has established that staff, spatial, technical and other prescribed conditions for the work of the university have been met. What is interesting in the publication of this solution is the fact that at the time of the establishment of the Faculty of Jelena Shogorov, a member of the Republic Council for the Development of University Education, was Professor Stevan Shogorov, the husband of Mrs Mira Shogorov, and the father of Jelena Shogorov. So if this isn't nepotism, if this isn't the worst abuse of law and office, then I really don't know what it is. They say these professors who have addressed those addresses that I have already mentioned that it has not been surprising that the university has received agreement and a positive opinion on the establishment of a university, and the obvious conflict of interest and abuse of position there is no need, say Mr. Professors, to speak further. Of course, if someone qualified can talk about it, they can certainly teach law school this time in Novi Sad, but also any law school. I want to get an answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia within these two sub-questions. One of the Ministry of Culture - is it true that this facility is under the protection of the Ministry of Culture and how does the Ministry of Culture actually care about these cultural monuments, or objects that are under its protection? The second question - is it true that in this Republic Council for the Development of University Education, one of the members at the time of the school accreditation Jelena Shogorov was her father, Stevan Shogorov? These professors say it is the fact that the university's memo does not meet the minimum technical, spatial and humane conditions for obtaining accreditation. They ask a question, and I ask on their behalf, is it a mistake or corruption in the highest bodies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? I'd like the Prime Minister to answer this question. They say the explanation may need to be sought in the current function of Mr. Shogorov, and that function is, I assume you all know who Mr. Stevan Shogorov is, except that the father of Jelena Shogorov and the husband of Mira Shogorov, he is also a member of the decentralisation Council, and that council was formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this advice are the Director of the Centre for Regionalism, Aleksandar Popov, Professor Marijana Pajvancic, Professor Dr. Jovan Komsic, Professor Dr. Snezana Djordjevic, Professor Dr. Stevan Šogorov, Dr. Miroslav Prokopijevic, Bosko Ristic, National MP and, Mr. Minister, you just asked Mrs. Komic, she knows who she is, because she is also a member of the council as vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and there is Mladen Jovanovic from the Niš Protection Organisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31896	Five minutes, thank you. Do any of the government's representatives want to give an answer to the supplemental question? No, I don't. ) Does the MP want to make a statement about the answer, once given by Minister Sasha Dragin? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31897	I use my five minutes first to say - I don't know what you're smiling about, Mrs. Comic, because it's really amazing that the ministers sit here and don't answer the questions of the MPs, and they're bound to. True, I said I didn't mind these ministers who are here, maybe it's not their area, although Mr. Dragin should know something about "Vode Vojvodina" and that centre whose Mrs. Mira Shogorov is the director, but it's really amazing that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that Mirko Cvetkovic, is probably counting his millions and his actions, has no time to deal with the National Assembly, no time, no will, no desire, and none of them, except the MPs of the SRS, is asking, and then he doesn't care. Otherwise, as Parliament's relationship with the MPs, we saw it in these two previous days, where we could barely open our mouths and say "a," we immediately received warnings, and we really thought this would be... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31898	People's MPs, please do not violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and speak falsely during the session, that your exposure must comply with the rules of the Rules of Procedure and that you cannot speak of it being in your quote - just to open your mouth and say "a" and get a sentence, because that is not true. You must not disrespect the work of this institution, disrupt the reputation of the congregation. The sentence was imposed after breach of the Rules of Procedure. Today, on the second occasion, you are trying to abuse the right to the word that all MPs have, and you are persistently violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by demonstrating the demeaning of this institution, in violation of its reputation and by showing an obvious intention, to bring our co-operation as soon as possible to further punishment. I ask you to stop violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31899	Since I was talking about the expert group of councils chosen by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, certainly so that the members of the government would, I assume, have been in that government either electronically or on the phone, since you have held meetings of the government in various ways. Of course, I suppose you know what the role of this council is and through that advice, you should know who Mr. Stevan Shogorov is. These professors whose letter I partially quoted as saying that one of the council's tasks is to participate in preparing and developing a strategy for decentralisation of the Republic of Serbia, in line with European standards and experiences of developed countries, as well as the need to continue the process of democratisation in Serbia through decentralisation. Some members of the council apparently experience the democratisation of the Republic of Serbia in a specific way, as well as decentralisation, carefully deploying illegally acquired property to members of their family and manipulating the various functions they find themselves in. In support of this, some of the merits should be sought in the engagement of the aforementioned newly-Sad professor, Shogorov, as a consultant of the Agency for Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, so it is quite amazing for me, gentlemen ministers, that you do not even know who is on this decentralisation council, that you do not even know who is a consultant of the Privatisation Agency. I'm really wondering, what do you know about the work you're doing? When it comes to the consulting services of Mr. Stevan Shogorov at the Agency for the Privatisation of the Republic of Serbia, he said he participated in the adoption and implementation of suspicious privatisations, this time in co-operation with his own brother, Milvan Shogorov, whose name ended some of the actions of the privatised enterprises, and some of the actions are being conducted today on his, and on behalf of his brother, Professor Stevan Shogorov, as well as in their nearby circles. In line with what I read, and in line with the letter that, I said at the beginning at which all the addresses arrived, I would also like to refer the question to Ms. Malovic, that she too, within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, see if the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and the District Public Prosecutor's Office did their part of the job. These are very serious accusations, and it is truly amazing that in the state of Serbia any family, whether it is the Shogorov family or this time Shogorov, and who knows how many such families there are, that they can in such a boast, in such a brutal way to seize the property of Serbian citizens. In this case, the property of Serbian citizens living in the territory of Vojvodina. This is particularly relevant, because in parliament we are discussing the statutes of the AP Vojvodina and explaining to the citizens of Serbia, that this statute and this law on the transfer of jurisdiction will not do them any good. They will bring them several more Shogorov families, or what they are called, which will be robbed in the most harsh way, to take away their property, only because they can work under the auspices of the government of the Republic of Serbia and because you from the Serbian government are obviously hiding them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31900	Five minutes. I thank you, the Word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31901	Today we spent half the day discussing the law, the bill of jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. My question will be in that sense. Here we have three ministers from Vojvodina. One of these ministers, on this issue, is a very close subject to him. It is the environment minister, Mr Oliver Dulic, who is a doctor by profession. Since there is no Minister of Health, I must speak to him. Mr. Minister and gentlemen of Ministers, Vojvodina in the area of health and before the bill had some jurisdiction and it was quite broad and quite large. In order for the people of Vojvodina to know how their authority and the provincial secretary are treating their citizenship, I will read you a portion of the official document. Please pay attention to this. The Institute of Oncology in Sremska Kamenica, road number four, provides and collects health care services provided by compulsory health insurance funds. Provisional health insurance services are provided and charged at the Institute of Oncology in Kamenica. It is not only that, but these services are also charged on behalf of what is not in compulsory health insurance, which, ladies and gentlemen, is contrary to the members of the Health Insurance Act. These members are 45, 46, 47, 48 and 49. So you see how the province government treats its citizens. At no time has the Executive Greater Vojvodina responded on this matter. At no time has the province's health secretary of Vojvodina come forward on this matter. Do you know who's being treated at that institute? Severe patients with malignancies. They charge for this kind of service, and ask for as much jurisdiction as possible. It's an answer to the people of Vojvodina for how they will behave in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31902	Do any of the government's representatives want to give an answer? No, I don't. ) Would you like to ask a further question? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31903	So, to make things worse, that institute has concluded a contract with foreign security. He receives foreign insurance, and patients and citizens of Vojvodina are placed on waiting lists. There are people at the institute who are masters of life and death, who decide if anyone will live for five months, six months or a year. Do you gentlemen from Vojvodina have an answer to this question, or is it just important that you collect as much jurisdiction for yourself as possible?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31904	Do any of the government's representatives want to give an answer? Yeah. ) Minister Oliver Dulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31905	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is one fundamental problem that perhaps should be considered when reforming this institution. All institutions in Serbia must reform and we agree there are many problems. For me, it is a great defeat that the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs, which should be the highest democratic act in parliament when MPs have the right to ask questions to competent ministers, turns into reading different types of information that are very often not accurate. It would be correct for you to deliver these questions in advance, to have the ministers ready. To, for example, check out what you, Mr. Dimitrievich, are talking about, to see if maybe a similar thing is happening in another institution, for example. at the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, the Clinical Centre in Kragujevac or Nis. Does mandatory health insurance cover all services when it comes to the treatment of malignancies and patients when they suffer from them or some services have to be paid extra? Perhaps all services are covered, perhaps most of this information is absolutely not true, but that one thing that represents the most difficult segment of life, which is a disease, and especially which represents the most severe segment of disease, these are malignant diseases, and the question of treating these, unfortunately, sick, desperate people to put into the context of the Statute of Vojvodina. I respect every parliamentary debate, and I have proven a million times both as President of Parliament and as an MP that there is one measure of tolerance when it comes to different attitudes, but to try to bring sadness and grief to people who have enormous problems in their treatment who, unfortunately, are sometimes brought into the situation that this treatment can sometimes not give its results because of very severe diseases, you connect with a political topic and bring into contact with the issue of the Vojvodina statutes is indeed something that I consider abuse, first of all ethics, which you and I have committed to when we graduated from the Medical Faculty. You'll get every answer to this question. I have some information about this problem. I can say that some things may be true, I can say that some things may not be true, you have the right to answer, and you will get it safely in writing, because none of us here are in charge of that area, but please don't, please, that such a difficult and serious question, such as the question of the treatment of malignancies, you're questioning a political issue that has been under discussion for the past few days. I wish the Minister of Health were there and that he would deny all of this that your allegations are, because if that's true, it's not good, but I repeat, I don't think this debate and this kind of question really are correct to ask in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31906	The word is by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, five minutes to declare the minister's response.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31907	Mr. Minister, two months ago I was in Novi Sad, visiting on a local television and opening the topic, and speaking of the importance of that and expecting a reaction from the competent circuit authorities, there was no reaction, nor was there. Is it true or not, there is a signature of a Republic health inspector here. You can't judge that, because I'll never invent one thing, not one false thing to say about this speaker, and that is a very important question, and that is the attitude of the government to its population, and that is why I'm saying this. That's the point of what I was going to say, and you think about what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31908	The word has been issued by MP Srdjan Mikovic, the right to ask a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31909	I would like to ask a question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, because there is an obligation for the state to take care of cultural monuments. It is in this sense that I ask the government and the competent ministries what is being done to prevent further usurpation of the Master's building as a monument of culture in Zemun?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31910	Do any of the members of the government present want to give an answer? No, I don't. ) Does MP Srdjan Mikovic want to ask a further question? No, I don't. ) In that case, the word has a People's MP Petar Jojic. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31911	Ladies and gentlemen, I've asked the government a question, but I'm not getting an answer, even though it's past the time I was supposed to get an answer. In Pančevo are privatised enterprises: Veterinary station - Pančevo, Pansirvina - Pančevo, Utva cara - Pančevo, HIP Cybernetski center - Pančevo, Apple industry scroba - Pančevo, Utva service - Pančevo, Tamiš informika - Pančevo, Utva proing - Pančevo, Silomont - Pančevo, Molčera a.d. - Pančevo, Konstruktor - Pančevo, Same Tamis - Pančevo, Tamiš trade - Pančevo, Mine equipment - Pančevo, Ei transport - Pančevo, Gaj - Pančevo, Glass, Pančevo, Pančevo - Pančevo, Pančevo, Stara Auto-Moto company Ukras - Pančevo, Technical center - Pančevo, Trgovina enterprise - Pančevo, Trgovina, Fabrika kontrežva, Fuzna Paštura Pančevo, Pančeto Pančevo, Paštura Pančevo, Pašto Pančevo, Paščav, Pašččav, Pašt. Will there be a break of contracts? Contractors do not respect contractual obligations at all, and workers protest, have no salaries, and no shares are paid. Are these contracts respected or not? Are the workers on the streets? Did they get certain fees according to the contract? How have almost all enterprises in Panchev and factories been sold, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia a question and ask for an answer – since Panchevo was sold? Furthermore, I would like to ask a question – what is the status of Panchevo's plane factory? Has a certain re-use been performed, and has the restructuring been carried out? I ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, or the Government answers – what is the status of the Panchevo Refrigerator, one of the largest in the country that was? She was pushed into bankruptcy, and now she needs to go into bankruptcy. How will the same be privatized? How did she end up at the Prince's Evening Meal when she finished her work and was shoved into bankruptcy? When will she be sold? For the Minister of Agriculture – how many loans from agriculture and livestock are allocated to individual agricultural producers in the territory of Vojvodina, and how many in the municipalities of Čajetina, Nova Varoš, Ivanica, Sjenica, Prijepolje, Pribo, Bajina Basta, Arlje, Ljubovija, Bolovac, Požega, Gornji Milanovac, Tutin, Novi Pazar, Raška and not to speak further. For the Minister for Environmental Protection. Please, Mr. Minister, when will you (President: three minutes). ) in the second part.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31912	Do any of the members of the government want to give an answer? Minister Sasha Dragin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31913	Dear Mr. Jojic, as you know, the freezers are not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. The status of the undertaking is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, but in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy, or perhaps in the jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency, if it is in the status of privatisation. As far as credit issues are concerned, we don't share farmers in where they come from when we give credit. What we're trying to do, is that subsidies at the Ministry for those farmers located in passive areas, rural areas, less developed areas, have the characteristics to get them easier, but we also can't pull ears and beat people to come and take loans. Whoever's looking for a loan gets one. This year we placed 4,860 and some credit through the Ministry of Agriculture and these are loans with 5% interest rates on the annual level. If you look at the interest rates on bank loans somewhere between 12 and 15%, that's extremely favourable. We will continue such a trend next year, and we are trying to allow farmers through other measures to get the best money on the loan, as we say through the public storage system, where if you take credit based on lagered goods, you will get an interest rate of 3% on the annual level, which is far the best interest rate, not only for us, but also for Europe as a whole and beyond.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31914	National MP Petar Jojic, right to the supplemental question, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31915	Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you this question, from agriculture and livestock -- how much funding has the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your Ministry of Government defined, singled out and paid for the development of livestock in Zlatibor, Tari, Maljen, Povlen, Pester and other environments? How much of these funds are, about, isolated and does the government intend to make cattle farming in these hills, where it is possible to develop the same, to improve it? The cattlemen from Zlatibor, Zlatar, Peshter, Tara, Malena, Povlina and other parts are interested and wondering – when will the Government and the Minister of Agriculture get rid of the bag, walk the villages of these areas and help individual farmers and cattlemen who can produce huge quantities of meat for the country and for export? One more question for Mr. Minister of Ecology. Mr. Minister, I'm glad you're here tonight. You've been visiting Pancheva on many occasions. You guaranteed the citizens of Panchev that the problem of pollution would be solved. In that direction, you've made certain moves and steps. But, Mr. Minister, Panchevo is a gas chamber still. In Pancheva, as you know, the toxic matter of Petrochemia and toxic matter and from the Refinery are lag in pools where you were in Petrochem, but the pools are not closed, they do not cover or eliminate the possibility of pollution in the city of Pancheva. In Panchev, 3,500 people suffered from cancer. It's mostly a product of the southern industrial zone, as you know. For the Minister of Health – who gave him the right and denied him the right to deny the rights of the citizens of southern Banat, and above all Panchev, that they could not be treated in health institutions and clinics in Belgrade, but must as grave patients travel to Novi Sad, Sremska Kamenica or even to Vrbas to change hips? Imagine, severe patients who have to travel 100km in one direction, 100km in another direction, and have no rights, and the Constitution guarantees them that they are being treated in Belgrade. I ask the question of the Minister of Health – is his decision against the law, and it is, why has the Government allowed the Minister of Health to decide on it, if the Constitution has guaranteed and the level of rights achieved must not be reduced? In particular, the level of rights achieved is reduced. As for the Pancevo company, workers have been protesting for days. A thousand and a half workers are out of work, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Agency do not terminate a contract with a buyer in the privatisation process, which does not pay certain amounts of money to the employees of the Trgoproducers. They ran out of bread on the street. The Privatisation Agency must urgently terminate these contracts and thus provide the citizens of Panchev, i.e. those who have been employed in the Trade Product to receive adequate compensation or to terminate the contract and otherwise resolve the status of this undertaking by law. That's why I'd ask the minister to answer these questions, especially for environmental science. I have to remind Mr. Secretary, he is present, that he should visit Pancheva soon and see to it that no one has done anything since the moment you arrived, and you promised that the government has singled out two million euros to resuscitate the pools, to shut down and that more Panchevo doesn't have to live as in the gas chamber.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31916	Do government members want to give an answer? Minister Sasa Dragin, then Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31917	I thank you again for asking. It would be my pleasure to give you in writing for each district in particular, which you are interested in, how much credit we've given, but what I've already said, we don't give credit by bringing farmers in evenly regionally, but as anyone reports, so we get a loan. Anyone who meets the conditions gets a loan, and for undeveloped parts of the country are far easier terms generally for obtaining subsidies than for those who have been developed. What I would also like to say to you is that the subsidy system does not work in such a way that you go to some regions, so you take out 100 euros and you give it to masters, workers, as the ministers used to do, but there is a program that you apply for and you get the funds. The 2009 funds are fully paid to all farmers. There's one more part to give for the milk premium, but it's perfectly normal because it's for the last quarter and something for livestock, as far as genetic improvement in livestock. So far we've paid 60%, and that's it. So, everything that's supposed to be given, that's what we gave. You're familiar with our program, you've got it, you've been with us, and you know that we serve our obligations regularly and properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31918	The word has Minister Oliver Dulic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31919	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the situation in Panchev is not great, as it is not a great situation in Bor, nor in other places where there is still great industrial activity that is being implemented by outdated technologies. The situation in Pancheva is much, much better than it was years ago. According to findings that are not only verified by us as the Ministry, i.e. the Environment Agency, but confirmed by measurement cells held by Panchevo alone, the concentrations of benzene measured on an annual basis only had a few peaks during the current year. As for the concentrations of sulfurdioxide in the air and powdered substances, they are at the level of regular concentrations. The reasons why the situation hasn't improved significantly in this year are the reasons why we as the Ministry couldn't influence, and I'll tell you who they are. As you know, NIS has been purchased by a Russian partner, a major restructuring is taking place in NIS, which includes a change of structure in the Panchevo Refinery itself. There are certain problems in the investment cycle that was agreed with previous leadership, while the state was the owner. Let me remind you that hundreds of millions are invested in NIS as regards investment in the environment, and it must be acknowledged that this year they are something of a small size because a Russian partner had to solve some things with a different dynamic. We'll visit Pancheva anyway. Over the next few weeks, we will have a regular meeting of the Panchev task force and will sign a protocol with the Rafineria, which will include continuing investment and repairing the environmental situation in the coming years. What we can say is that at no time will we question insistence on introducing the most modern technologies available when it comes to the work of the Panchevo Refinery. What we can promise is that every month and every year the Pancians will have better living conditions when we talk about the pollution coming from the Refinery. We have two other business entities with which protocols were also signed that included certain investment activities. One is Azotara Panchevo, who has entered, unfortunately, economic problems and is currently in undefined legal status. Another is Petrochemy, who, as you know, had problems in her activities and had a standstill in the investment cycle because Petrochemy had changed its structure and had significant debts and was unable to meet its obligations. These are all the things that have come and have come across in a very difficult year, in which it is very difficult to insist on the commitments undertaken in terms of investment, and we are aware of that, but we will certainly, within the Pancheva Working Group, talk about it. What's good news is that none of these companies are running away from their obligations, nor would the Ministry allow it, and that we will surely make an effort in the coming months to return this investment cycle, as far as investment in the environment is concerned, to its track. What's also good news is that you, as a resident of Panchev and, I'm sure many others, have to admit that the situation is something better. So, I agree with you that there are days and nights, depending on atmospheric opportunities, when in Panchev you can still feel in the air a very unpleasant smell, which comes mainly from an escalating pool that we took over as the Ministry to cover and that investment is under way. She paused because of the situation in Petrochemia, because the esophageal pool is located in Petrochemia, and it is being poured into wastewater from the Refinery. As you know, there were problems that made the investment a little bit of a stopover, but we're going to go back to that. When we talk about Panchev, this applies to all other situations when it comes to the environment, we still have to talk about facts, and maybe we leave politics in a different way, because it's both about human health and the impact on the environment of all of us. So, I'll be very soon in Panchev, teams of people are constantly working there, measurements are being made, and the next time we see each other, I can bring you something that's quantified amounts of polluting substances in the air that will prove to you that the situation isn't as bad as you presented it, especially when you use the word that Panc's gas chamber, and it certainly isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31920	National MP Petar Jojic has the right to declare his response for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31921	Mr. Minister, I live in this Panchev, and I have no reason to lie to you. On the other hand, what you're bringing out to do measurements, by measuring you're not solving the problem. Problems are solved in such a way as to restore and improve filters and technologies in Petrochemia and Refinery. This hasn't come since the time the Russians took over NIS. First of all, for years, they've been lagging into those pools of toxic matter that make Pancheva most of all bitter. Just consider, if you wanted the citizens of Vojlovica, Topola, Sodara, Lower City and the city center to come to you, you'd see for yourself, and you saw for yourself last year when you were. Measurement isn't about removing the consequences. The consequences are eliminated because Petrochemy exported 280m euros in products last year. Can't the government, when this is a public enterprise of its own, single out 10m euros to restructure and resolve the consequences? Those pools need to be closed as soon as possible, which is what you said, because in any case, the citizens of it die. You don't live there. I can inform you, for the sake of knowledge and the public, mostly management that was in Petrohemia and the Refinery, lived and lived in Belgrade, not Panchev. If it had lived in Panchev, you'd see how different leadership would have been in the past years. Therefore, Panchevo deserves special protection measures, and donations and improvement of the environment. One more question for you, please make sure you give me an answer. Get information on how much it cost to build a new dump in Panchev? A new dump in Pancheva has been built for 15 years. There's more money in it than on the Gerdap Hydropower Plant. One Đerdap hydropower plant could have been made as much as a dump in Panchev cost. If you don't believe me, please, and I'm looking for an answer, a project of that dump, when did the construction start? When by age, how many states, public enterprises, municipalities and citizens have singled out that the city center of the city is being deposited where it is now? Secondly, ask for an answer – did you agree to open a cattle cemetery for Serbia in Panchev? Are there any written clues about the death of cattle from all over Serbia and is it true that the Ministry of Environmental Protection granted permission and consent to the burning of animal waste at a new dump in Panchev? As for the Minister of Agriculture, I'm sorry, I'm getting sick, I'd ask a question – what about the PIC South Banat? Why is it that, according to PIC workers from the White Church, they are not covered by the purchase agreement? Imagine, agricultural land – 530 hectares, then 198 hectares under a vineyard, 18 hectares under a cherry, a bay system – 147 hectares, the plant of apricots – seven hectares, plant plums - 12 hectares, plant apples - 375 hectares, building land, as workers say - 25 hectares. So the total – 1,657 hectares were sold in this company. What happened to the workers' claims? The company was estimated at 5m euros, and when the post-artifice was carried out, it was found by the experts that the combination, with all these resources, orchards and vineyards, is worth 36m euros. I ask the Government a question – will the review be carried out, the contract is terminated and the previous situation is established and the workers are compensated for their lost profits?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31922	The word has been issued by MP Srboljub Zivanovic, the right to ask a three-minute parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31923	The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister of Agriculture has come out, and in fact these questions that I want to ask concern him and concern the Ministry of Agriculture. First, I wanted to ask a question – who decides to import agricultural products? Because Serbia first needs to protect its agricultural product, and only then, if there is a shortage, can it import that agricultural product from certain countries. I wanted to ask the question, what about subsidies that were not paid to farmers? It was said, all the time, from the moment of sowing, harvesting, and re-sowing, that these subsidies would be paid to farmers in due time. Now there will be another budget for next year, and from this budget it has not been done. The third question - what about the debt for peasant pensions, where farmers owe PIO and is it possible for these pensions to be refunded and connected, as it is linked in many working organisations across Serbia to employees? I think the same thing was necessary to connect pensions to agricultural producers. The fourth question, which, today or every day, by December 10th, can be heard in conversation with many peasants, which is – how will they get into traffic? How are they going to process their fields, because many tractors don't have cabins, they don't have those rotational lights? How's he gonna get out? How's he gonna get off the road? Who's going to make it possible for them to push their pitches? The fifth question, however, is a question which I also ask the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31924	Three minutes. Does a member of the government want to give an answer? Yeah. ) Minister Sasa Dragin, Minister of Information, obliges the 200th member to complete this session at 19.00 p.m., so I ask you to get an answer to be by 19.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31925	I thank the MP's concerns, but he was probably not present, subsidies were all paid at the end of August per hectare. What's left is what I said, one part of the milk premium to pay off and one part to pay off for the genetic improvement of livestock farming. It's quarterly, so as the demands come in, that's how they're processed. It'll be paid, of course. You're probably thinking about the Traffic Safety Act, which is not our department's jurisdiction, you'll have to refer it to another competent minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31926	On the basis of article 200, we still have two minutes, if MP Srboljub Zivanovic wants to take advantage of those two minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31927	These days, it is announced that there will be co-operation between Serbia and China and we, Serbian radicals, that is what we want, but we cannot wish to shut down our factories and to start installing Chinese tractors in Serbia's premises. I wonder what happened to our IMT factory? Is the state trying to preserve one great giant, one unique factory we've been proud of for many years? Also, I would like to ask a question about mineral fertiliser factories that are currently not working in Serbia. What about the launch of these factories, because we know well that five central factories, I don't have time to count them, they're in the restructuring phase, and these two or three years they've been brought to a difficult collapse? I believe that the state had to invest in the work and subsidisation of these factories, just as it invests in the subsidies of many of those, such as Victoria's group, and others, who are now in the phase as potential mineral fertilizer production factories. I think the question you didn't answer, because you weren't there, what about connecting the village pensioners' employment? If there's been a connection between the staff of employees in various organizations, I think that everything that's... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-11-26-0.u31928	Thank you, People's Messenger. Now that it's 19.00 hours, I'm closing today's work on Article 200. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I thank you all for your participation. I remind you that the work on the agenda continues in detail tomorrow, November 27th, at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 84 MPs are present at the Hall, or more than one-third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the Rules of Procedure to be established for the work of the National Assembly. Notice of the absence of the People's Messenger. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Momo Colaković and Konstantin Arsenović. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSATION OF THE LAW ON THE INSTITUTION OF THE AP VOJVODINA (specificities) Before we move on to the amendment and the giving of words to the People's MP, I am informing the MPs of the time remaining for discussion on the details of the first item of the agenda: The PUPS Group has the total time of the parliamentary group and the authorised representative, as well as the Manjin Parliament group; The New Serbia Group has the total time of the parliamentary group and two minutes and 20 seconds at its disposal as the time of the parliamentary group; the LDP Group has the total time of president of the parliamentary group and the 12 minutes of the task force of the group and of the group sent to the group and the first group of representatives of representatives of the SPS. National MP Suleiman Spaho wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1). Here you go.
