ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23377	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 112 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On Tuesdays and Thursdays only, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the session, and before moving to a further debate, the Assembly shall work on the basis of Article 235(2). The Rules of Procedure, which is to request information and explanations on the basis of Article 235. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? The first word has the MP Vladan Batic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23378	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions, I would say, from the people. A few days ago I stopped by the Sidro restaurant in Besko na Dunav, trying to find that bridge of engineer Mrkonjic; they won't tell us when they'll finish it, they want to surprise us. The restaurant owner showed me a few things that usually hurt a lot of people in the same situation. First, is someone controlling SOKOJ's business? SOKOJ is an organisation of Serbian music authors. The man, for example, just for the New Year's Eve, and he had the live music I paid for, he got to pay 57,000 dinars. I wonder if this is under the control of the authorities. Second question for the finance minister. The inspection comes and says – get all the money out of the register, the waiters – get all the money out of your wallet; find that, say, 1,000 dinars is more money than it is in fiscal accounts and threatens to close the restaurant for 15 days. What do waiters do with tips? It exists everywhere in the world, because that difference between 1,000 or 1,100 dinars is in the name of tips. People face unprecedented problems. Third question. There's a bank terminal in the restaurant. Whoever wants to pay with a card pays with a card to the restaurant owner. Denied of the price charged 1.9% on behalf of the commission for that terminal. Citizens are placed in an unequal position. The one who pays cash, pays for the last money, and when someone pays with a card, it's taken to the restaurant owner. Of course, so is other retail facilities, etc. There's something to be done, not to be damaged by the ones where the terminals are located. The issue for the interior minister and the minister of justice (it is, in fact, for the prosecution) – to examine the work of the Privatisation Agency, especially at the time when Ms Vesna Djindjic, who has now resigned suddenly, and who, among other things, is on the criminal report I filed against Mladjan Dinkic and others in the famous case of the Cypriot couples. Why am I asking that? Because, let's just say, for two companies in Obrenovac, the Privatisation Agency has made a complete mess. I asked for an answer to the question about "The First Spark", which was once a giant, hired 7,000 workers, and today a pile of waste has grown into thorns and weeds. From various privatisation contracts, not to mention, and I have details of all the drives, nothing is realized. It's all gone to good times. A number of malfeasances, numerous abuses, and the Agency doesn't care. Baric has a whole floor in the Palace of Albania, in the heart of Belgrade, and there is no telling where he is, what he is, or who he is, and that's robbery. The same situation with the Bora Markovic Wood Industry, which was once a pride throughout Serbia; it was the property of the Simovic family, nationalised and now destroyed. In 2004, the company went bankrupt. The trade court established a trustee's claim in 2005. In a magical way, although in bankruptcy, it has been sold; for 335 workers no fees paid, salaries in a few years. You don't even know who the buyer is, you don't know who's drinking, you don't know who's paying. No more machines, no more repromation, no more raw materials, no more finished products. It all healed into thorns and weeds. The Privatisation Agency has to file the accounts.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23379	Dear People's MPs, I announced that the word, after being declared in the system, would be given to MP Dragan Todorovic. Meanwhile, MP Zlata Djeric reported. Do you want me to... Or should we leave from the smallest to the greatest? (Dragan Todorovic: The lady has the advantage. ) I thank Parliamentarian Dragan Todorovic. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I have a question for Mr. Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic. That's one series of questions I'm going to ask today and probably Tuesdays and Thursdays, so we're going to ask ourselves more than once on this subject. This year, namely, the National Anticancer Programme in Serbia was promoted. It is certainly something that needs to be welcomed and really widely involved, since it is a disease that is already taking the form of an epidemic. In order to be more than just a supply campaign, as it is usually conducted in Serbia, I am interested in how much research projects are financed under this campaign. Has there been any accurate data on the increase in the number of children who have malignancies? Has it occurred with an examination of the exact number of children, the mortality of children from malignancies, and the mortality of children from chemotherapy, the administration of chemotherapy and the application of the protocol, given that the treatment signifies information that the mortality of the patient's chemotherapy is possible? I am also interested, since in Serbia, five institutes or clinics treat children with malignancies, who are suppliers of cytostatics of these institutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23381	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23382	The Honorable Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, the Ministry of Agriculture has very explicitly begun to apply the Food Safety Act on the day it was adopted on 10 June 2009, although it was written in the law that the period of adaptation and the creation of material and technical conditions for this law would take two years. When the law began to apply, the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection, which was otherwise tasked with stopping all non-healthy food at Serbia's borders, prevented the formation of epidemics and infections in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. To remind you, it is still important to the Sanitary Control Act, and the sanitary inspection does not control everything that enters this country. I need to remind you of a few more things. Given that the ruling coalition has passed the Food Safety Act, although we have submitted concrete amendments to fix it, it must know what the consequences are. According to this law, sanitary inspection is authorized to control only new types of food, so those that have not been for human use so far: children's products, people's salts and drinking water. But the sanitary inspection has no jurisdiction over plant and animal foods, which control the phyto-inspection and veterinary inspection. Since, in the meantime, from the 10th to the present, there have been several very extreme situations, which I must explain... Every day of June 10th, a minimum of 200 trucks of groceries (fruits, vegetables, fish, meat, children's products and children's food) entered Serbia without any health control. The food is located in shops across Serbia. From customs, they tell us that it's a food that's full of antibiotics, pesticides, poisons, which has run out of time and, most importantly, it's not for human use. Unfortunately, she's in the shops. It is true that some media-based consumer associations have tried to turn to citizens to take care of what they buy. Because, with the team being slightly lower prices (because you're like government, incompetent and inefficient, you've led us to see how much something costs), for a dinar or two, we're going to go in and buy things. The import lobby worked very hard; it was built a vacuum, obviously, to make a good profit on it. Of course, he did not take care of the health of Serbian citizens. What is very important and what is to be said, the Ministry of Health, whose jurisdiction this is, is to remain silent. The minister is walking around the world, although he is in his resolute ministry, and in the area he covers and leads, an affair to an affair. The Ministry of Agriculture, of course, transfers jurisdiction to the Ministry of Health. The government, as usual, shut up. We didn't expect the Prime Minister to answer. That is why we think that we MPs must ask very specific questions, first of all the Ministry of Health: what has been done and what does he think he is doing because the sanitary inspection is not doing his job, although I repeat, the Sanitary Control Act is still in force? Ministry of Agriculture: how did the Food Safety Act apply on the same day, although it is necessary to pass sublegal acts, although it takes two years, as they stated in the law's explanation, to create material and technical conditions so that the law could be applied? And finally, the Ministry of Trade: how is it possible that all these goods, very problematic food, were found in shops and trade chains throughout Serbia? Of course, I won't ask Prime Minister Cvetkovic a question, because this is a completely irresponsible government and I don't think there's any need to ask him questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23383	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23384	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I ask the question, like every Tuesday and Thursday, when will I get answers to the questions asked before? It's been months since I asked a question about the Law on the Property of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia. Under the law, all parliamentary parties were entitled to 50% use. This law absolutely makes for nothing the sale of the Palace of Ustasha. But here, to this day I don't get an answer. Also, I asked for information on how many facilities were owned by the Alliance. Mrs. Comic, since I've set up Mrs. Slavic, here, and I'd like to ask you, you have the famous nickname "Colonel", so if you solve this, you might be going to an adventure to the general or, let's just say... I don't know how the spells of the Shutanovac are now, but they've probably moved on to someone else. But I'm really asking the question when we're going to get an answer, because the assumption is that there are about 300 objects owned by the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia. There are other questions I've asked, but this is very important to me and I ask you, with your authority, to force you to get an answer to this question, which is not very difficult; the data exists and I think that would be extremely significant. Another thing I would refer to, which is extremely current these days, is the situation with our peasant, about the ransom price of grain. By who knows which time, that is, it is common every year when the harvest approaches or begins, our peasant simply finds himself in a situation to ask whether next year he will be doing this job again, whether he will work, because if he does not kill the city or if he does not experience any other problems, the warehouses and tycoons will wait for him and, practically, his efforts will be eaten, he will be stoned for a short time, and the government will be silent and not react. For your information, right now, although it's not safe, it calculates at a price of 10.00 dinars per kilogram. I've received their calculations from the Vojvodina Association for the price of grain. Around here, not to mention all these elements, it says: an estimated yield of 3,800 kilograms, a reduction in the debt of 2,155 kilograms, a quantity for sale of 1,645 kilograms. If you multiply that by 10 dinars, you get 16.450 dinars, and the cost of production is 29.026 dinars. So he's a farmer for every hectare at a loss of 12,576 dinars. This price is dictated by warehouses and tycoons, who buy and who will earn on the hillbilly. The budget of the Vojvodina Union is that the price should be 17.65 dinars, plus 10% accumulation, meaning 19.41 dinar. Here, let me tell you that the price in Hungary is at 130 euros, which is 12.22 dinars. In France, 140 euros, about 13.00 dinars. Look at the difference between Serbia, this poor, ruined country and our peasant, and Hungary and France. I have to tell you that the assumption that the unilateral application of the SAA in this year will damage 270,000,000 euros. Look how these people who run this country -- those with 270,000,000 euros are helping farmers in Europe, and our peasants have left it to the mercy of the tycoons and destroy it in every way possible. I'm asking a question, how long are you going to do things like this? When will you take care of the interests of this country, the interests of Serbian citizens, especially the interests of peasants, who will you destroy, who will not have a chance to recover? When will the government and the Ministry of Agriculture finally come up with a price that will make it impossible for warehouses and tycoons to rob our peasant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23385	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups report for a word in accordance with Article 235? No, I don't. ( ) Since no one is answering for a word anymore, we continue our work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Miroslav Petkovic, Meso Omerović, Munir Poturak, Bajram Šehović, Milan Lapčević, Mladen Grujić, Radoslav Mojsilović, Dr Nikola Krpić in the morning work. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Jasmina Benmansur and Bratislava Djokic, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government. We move to the 6th point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE LAW ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENTS (particularities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Sladjan Miloš Radulović and Miroslav Petković, Zoran Antić, Mićo Rogović, Milisav Petrović, together Zoran Šami and Željko Tomić, Oto Kišmarton, Dušan Marić, jointly Milica Vojić- Marković, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazić, together Zoran Šami and Miroslav Petković, together Božidar Delić and Igor Bečić, together Dragan Čalić and Stefan Zalić, Srđan Spastović, Žažar Žažan Šami Žažina and Miloš Radulović, Zoran Krasić, together Milić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Milan Banović and Milan Dizan Radaž, Vžar Rada, Vrjan Ža, Vrjan Žarić, Vran Žaržan Žarić, Žaržar, Vrović, Vrović and Vrjan Žarjan Žarjan Žar, Vrjan Žar, Vrović, Vrović, Vrović, Vrjan Žaržaržaržar, Vrjan Žaljan Žalić, Vrjan Žalić, Vrjan Žalić, Vrjan Žalić, Vržić, Vrjan Žalić, Ž. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23386	Dear colleagues, the presidency, I asked that Article 1 paragraph 2 be deleted because it was the functioning of foreign associations. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a number of amendments requiring foreign associations to be deleted from this law because the experience experienced over the past 20 years teaches us that many foreign associations that have come here and allegedly provided some help were not well-intentioned. Indeed, a large number of these experiences and events, the terrible ones they caused, from the former SFRY, from Slovenia, all the way down to Kosovo in 1999. And today, we suffer certain consequences of the work of foreign associations, humanitarian organisations, peace organisations, etc., which have been done on our fields and in our country. So we think that this level of work of foreign associations and this scope is really very serious, that it has to be looked very broadly, it has to be defined much more seriously to put ourselves under greater and more serious control, so that we don't have that folk saying – that we make a mistake after a mistake and if we make a mistake once, it's an accident, but if we make a mistake the second and third time, then it refuses our stupidity. Since we don't want this to be rejected by our stupidity, we ask the Minister to define both the field of their operation and the work being processed by a special law, much more serious, and that this law be left without foreign associations, or their definition through this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23387	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milos Radulović and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23388	Thank you, Madam Chairman. It is strange that, in yesterday's debate on the insurance law and today we have a debate on the Proposal for Association Law, the ruling majority and the competent ministries, and the government itself, do not find it appropriate that, out of such constructive, smart and good amendments, at least one amendment, which we saw yesterday in the contribution of the discussion of my distinguished colleague Professor. Zoran Shamiya. The Democratic Party of Serbia certainly believes that an association law should be passed and supports the principle that, in the end, the law becomes more liberal and that anyone who wants to be organised in the association should do so without major difficulties. However, we should not allow this to go to another extreme, which the DSS MPs will talk about during the debate in particular, i.e. when explaining their amendments. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, we have suggested that Article 2 paragraph 1 deletes the word “invaluable. ” In the spirit of the proposed law, it is clear that most associations will also have profits (Article 37 provision) and a declarative definition in Article 2(1) simply does not have any purpose. I'll just say it in short lines. The activities of the association Article 37: “The association can also perform both direct business or other activity, in accordance with the law governing the classification of activity under those conditions... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We have these conditions here. I think this amendment is meaningful and I'm counting on you to accept it by the end of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23389	The word is Radojko Obradovic. Use the time of the DSS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23390	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Article 2 defines the concept of the association, and that's something you mentioned during the principle debate. The position of Article 2 is very interesting. Article 1 defines what associations are, and Article 2(2) says that political parties, trade unions, associations are organised to carry out certain activities in order to obtain profits, sports organisations and associations, churches and religious communities, etc. whose work is governed by specific laws, the provisions of this law are properly applied in matters which are not governed by these specific laws. When you look closely, and I have carefully looked at every law that regulates these areas, there is a pretty big space that can be said to apply this law. In the principle debate, you said, I will not look back at political parties, since everything that shortens political parties' rights and anything that reduces and restricts their work has become quite popular, that this law absolutely does not apply to the work of political parties. But when you look at everything else that's listed here, it's pretty vague that the provisions are applied and not. This rights those who interpret the law to apply some of these things to these associations, or to allow certain things to be interpreted differently. If this law does not apply to any of the numbers, then what is the point of being listed in Article 2 at all? Then it can only create an additional confusion. For example, yesterday we heard a very happy news, which is that an agreement has been reached that no budget law will be applied to higher education institutions. Representatives of the ministry and government have negotiated and it is agreed that 40% of their own revenues will not be applied. I'm asking you -- how can this be done if the Budget Act doesn't change? If the Budget Law writes such a provision, where does it right anyone, so that the thing that is positive, applies without harming the law? Or does this mean that in the next few days we will have an amendment to the Budget Law for the 46th time? It is a similar matter: any provision that is unclear can create serious problems when the law is applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23391	The word is Mr. Petar Jojic. You have to sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23392	Madam President, I would use the time of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled several amendments concerning the proposal for a law on associations. In a few words, I would point out, and this is said by my colleague, Mijaljević, that Article 1 paragraph 2 states that this law regulates both the status and the functioning of foreign associations. As for the association, a special law relating to NGOs or foreign NGOs should be passed in Serbia. On behalf of the SRS, I have carried out an analysis in relation to the international and legal framework for the exercise of the right to association and the position of NGOs. With this in mind, I have paid particular attention to the European Convention on the Recognition of the Legal Entity of International NGOs since 24 April 1986. The national regulations I have taken into consideration and study concern the establishment, registration, organisation, operation and termination of the work of NGOs, both domestic and foreign, in some countries of Europe. This applies to EU countries, which I took into account during this analysis. These are: Austria, Belgium, Greece, Estonia, Italy, Germany, United Kingdom, France, Switzerland, Sweden and Spain. In this regard, I have come to a joint presentation of national fiscal provisions concerning NGOs, domestic and foreign organisations. Analysis of the normative regulation of foreign NGOs in these countries norms the procedure and way of registration of NGOs. First, the body responsible for the registration, the basis for the ban on the work of a non-governmental organisation, the decision-making body for the ban on labour, the submission of a report on the work of a foreign NGO, the liaison body for a foreign NGO and the way in which such cooperation is achieved; then, taxes and other reliefs given in these EU countries to a non-governmental organisation. The NGO stands for a legal person who is not considered part of the government's sector and which is not used to obtain profits, and if any other profits are obtained, it cannot be distributed as such. This does not include trade unions, political parties, cooperatives and other parts of profit and church. In different countries where I have conducted an analysis of a very broad and diverse circle of organisational forms could be subject to a quoted definition, where all forms do not always have uniform legal status, or are regulated by different regulations, some of which contain significant specific solutions. However, during this analysis, I focused not on the round of organizations that would match our citizens' associations, with the fact that in the countries of the founders and members of the association, besides the physical ones, they can also be legal persons. When we talk about our duties, foundations and funds, in the countries of these forms of organization the name – foundation is used. This is a broader picture of the organisation and functioning of the association, i.e. foreign NGOs, and it all comes down to the international community, especially in the EU and the countries I spoke about, to the foundations. What is particularly important here to point out, when it comes to Serbia, to mention the former SFRY issue, NGOs have helped and contributed further to breaking the SFRY; they also contribute today to breaking Serbia. This operation of foreign international organisations is not properly regulated, comprehensive, in order to prevent the functioning of foreign NGOs dealing with and profit and, in addition, with policy in our country. NGOs must be so envisaged and normised in the law, in order for their work to be brought into the frameworks that do not interfere with constitutional regulation, do not make it difficult for the policy and functioning of certain state bodies, do not participate in criminal activities, do not participate in political institutions or state institutions. But state institutions in Serbia are full of NGOs. Therefore, the law must otherwise regulate the issue of foreign NGOs. We are well aware of what all foreign NGOs have included in their activities. Who let all this happen? There was no control, foreign NGOs came with huge financial resources before October 5th to perform October 5th. I remind you only of Hungary, where certain funds came from. When it comes to a foreign NGO, it must be passed a special law because a foreign NGO or association in Serbia cannot have the status of a fishing association or a hunting association. That's absolutely unacceptable. Therefore, in this law, it was specifically necessary to regulate the activity, registration, its content, the body that registers it, who will monitor the control, who will control whether financial resources are realised, whether it is a profitable or non-profit organisation. I believe it should, and Minister Markovic is there, perhaps to accept the idea of the SRS, to pass a special law on foreign NGOs. On behalf of the SRS, I've prepared such a law, I can show it to you, but at the MP's club, we'll agree to put it in a procedure to get on the agenda in front of the Assembly. This bill, above all, regulates the functioning of foreign NGOs in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, their obligation to report their activities to the competent authority, to adopt a register of these organisations and data to be entered, as well as the reasons and procedure for eradicating them from the register. The key thing is the organisation of foreign NGOs, registers and enrolment. In our opinion, a foreign NGO within the meaning of this law is a legal person based in another country, established and registered under the regulations of that country to achieve the objectives in the area, this is very important, noteworthy, humanitarian activities, health, education and education, science and culture, environmental protection, human and citizen rights protection and other activities in the general social interest, whose function is not intended to obtain and distribute profits. Therefore, in our view, as regards the law, norms should not apply to specialised organisations from the UN system and other organisations whose operation in the Republic of Serbia is governed by international contracts, as well as political parties, trade unions and other social, political and religious organisations registered abroad. We believe that foreign NGOs can act freely in the territory of the Republic of Serbia if their activity is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia (and we have had a number of evidence that some foreign NGOs have acted contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, the Criminal Law and other regulations on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and that they have acted contrary to the international agreements it has concluded); if these activities do not target the threat of peace or equal international co-operation, to the challenge of national (also important), racial, religious and other intolerance and hatred; and if they have registered representation in the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23393	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Antiæ, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23394	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party has submitted a number of amendments to the Association Law. We believe that for the citizens of Serbia, in general for our country and for us as a political party, this law is of paramount importance. However, it seems to me that in the good part this law is unsettled. The fact that there are over 30,000 associations, which have very different areas of action and interest, suggests that it had to be significantly more complex. My amendment doesn't have any essential weight, it's more of a termological nature. It's a technical regulation of the law, it could be formulated, so it won't matter what the quality of this law is. I did not find an understanding for him on the proposal, but I hope that the Proposer and the Minister himself will, in the course of the debate, have much more understanding for those amendments of the SNS which are essential character and that through the debate on these amendments, we will still have some improvement in this law, which, in a very short time, will have to come back to the Republic Assembly and soon we will have to go to the amendments and the additions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23395	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Bozidar Delic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23396	The essence of this proposal is that the words "non-profit" are added in Article 2(1) after the words "non-party" are added. Although Article 2(2) states that political parties, trade unions and various associations that carry out certain activities in order to acquire profits, sports organisations, religious communities have special laws, and that the provisions of this law are properly applied only in those issues which are not governed by this special law, the SNS felt that the word "non-party" should certainly be added in the text of this Article 1. As regards the proposals' arguments that the amendment is not accepted since it does not comply with standards accepted by international acts, this is something even more problematic, especially this explanation of the legal status of NGOs, where NGOs are said to be free to support a particular candidate or party in the elections or referendum, provided that they have made their motivation transparent. This "transparent", especially when it comes to Serbia, is always very, very problematic. After all, when it comes to this provision and the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers, I believe that our proposal is absolutely not contrary to that. There are many NGOs, we have even members of an NGO who are MPs here in the National Assembly, which means they participated in the electoral process, but when it is said "non-party", I do not think we have violated this recommendation from the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23397	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Mijaljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23398	Mr. Minister, and in that previous part of the month when you proposed this law in that agenda during December, and then finally pulled it out, there was a principle debate and amendments were written, and here, and now in the principle debate, and even during the debate on amendments, you saw that there really are, for now, a minimum of two concepts that process this law on citizens' associations. One concept was put forward by you in the bill, and the other concept had already, with these first two members alone, brought out opposition parties. We propose to delete the 2nd position of the 2nd member, because there are also a number of associations that, according to us, this law is not the place. This hides very serious traps for the state and for the associations of citizens, as well as for members of individual associations of citizens. As I have already said, we have observed this law on several sides – legal, sociological, security and religious. In the principle debate, I talked a lot about political parties, about trade unions and about the notion that you've introduced for citizens' associations, that you can register such associations of citizens who fall under churches and religious communities. I don't want to put pressure on you again with the cult story, I want to relax you on that side today, but we're going to talk more seriously about those NGOs, or those associations of citizens that make up the civil sector. This civil sector is indeed a very wide range of activities of the Association of Citizens, and according to these associations, many services and many institutions send various information, huge amounts of money to place certain information, positive or negative for a particular region or a particular state. Of course, now I'm going to talk a little bit more about those NGOs, which there are, however, fewer, which have been doing a variety of subversive activities on SFRY territory, the SCG territory and now Serbia. That's why we think this law is... And through this 2nd position of the 2nd member, including the other members, you have trimmed, or atomized, citizens' associations, so only three members can be sufficient to establish an association; minors can also establish those associations. These are all the moments that certain organizations, which do not wish us well and which have shown that they do not want us well, will use them to create such associations so that they can implement their goals on our territory. The NGO is nothing more than an association of citizens with its own circle of action, which does not correspond to the executive authority of a state and is therefore called an NGO. We conclude from this that the founders of NGOs are guided by altruistic initiatives, which, of course, is nothing wrong, is even very good. Problems arise when these organisations are founded to be abused by whoever founded them. For example, the NGO international confederacy of dog lovers or the cat lovers' association have its own specific scope of action concerning the rights or care of animals and as such do not endanger anyone. That is why we have a series of NGOs of subversive character present in certain countries with the sole clear goal, which is to cause political instability and damage and violation of the constitution of that state and its territorial integrity. It is characteristic that the jobs of the end of the Cold War appear to be an increasing number of organisations related to economic globalisation. Earlier, when Mr. Petar Jojic mentioned foreign associations, the opposition said they were not foreign associations, but foreign services. Indeed, there are a number of negative indicators that they have left behind, and it causes us more than a mild chill when mentioned by that organization and given them a very liberal and broad range of action. I must add: between organisations that are active today on national, regional, international and transnational plans, there are major differences in structure, funding and labour content, so the largest number of theorists has given up searching for a single, comprehensive definition. Instead, they have concentrated efforts to identify key criteria through which NGOs can be identified, which are – NGOs are voluntary organisations with long-term programmes, which through the mobilisation of social energy meet social needs that cannot be achieved by the public or state sector, or cannot be achieved in an adequate manner. The advantage of the NGO sector over the state is that power draws from social energy for its actions. Unlike states whose power rests on coercion, volunteering implies working on the welfare of other people, without any financial compensation. NGOs are independent of the government of a state whose territory they operate, but they should also be independent of any other foreign government. NGOs are unprofitable, stemmed from private initiative and non-commercial goals. NGOs are charity by their character. It follows that its members are altruistically defined and motivated by general interests. Consistently, political parties, guerrilla movements or multinational companies cannot be undermined by NGOs, and that is the main difference between them. NGOs must possess a statute that defines the formal structure, regulates the choice of managing bodies, with clearly defined objectives and a firm institutional structure of the organisation and cannot function without it. Coli Krasic raised a very serious question in the principle debate, which is, as we mentioned, a security field. We are witnesses, because this is more than obvious, that both in our country and in the world, many associations of citizens (or the non-governmental sector) have been used or abused for some other purposes than those who write in the statute, and thus abuse civil initiatives. In many military doctrines, the work of the civil sector, i.e. citizens' associations, through which some types of special war are being carried out, such as psychological operations, land probes, information operations, etc. As I said, many doctrines were written for use and documents and analysis after completed operations. A colleague from the ruling coalition said that we can get a lot of information online only if we know we're using it. It is enough to register an association of citizens or NGOs, and then search for certain sources of funding on the Internet. These sources of funding are, in most cases, certain masks used by certain foreign intelligence services to place certain information or certain operations on a particular territory. Only a little more serious Internet search work can lead us to countless doctrines they wrote, absolutely not hiding, certain services, armies, especially the United States, as they use certain associations of citizens. One of these first doctrines is the FM30-1, which was written in June 1968, while the war was in Vietnam. You can find it on the Internet, it's a little bit of an ethno style, it's written by a typewriter and it looks just like that... It is interesting to look at and have it in the archive, even though those people who study the work of certain services who perform certain psychological and information operations through the association of citizens, or NGOs in certain territories. Now I'm going to read a few other doctrines and theoretical settings in the use of NGOs. One of them is military support for the management of foreign consequential operations, published on 30 June 1998; then, the link between operational planning and the implemented system, 25 May 2001; then, civil aid, 27 June 1994; then FM 41 – 10, civil auxiliary operation, 14 February 2000; then, human and peace operations of NGOs and military operations in the process of merger; then, internal migration of persons; the role of UN High Commissioners to assist UNHCR, a copy of the position paper, 6 March 2000; and the transition to the next level, civil-military co-operation in complex cases of the US military and the Institute of Peaceful Visual Reports, September 2000. Of course, through this abuse of civil initiatives, or the civil sector... We said that some of these doctrines were written in the 1960s; I mentioned this rule 33-1 from June 1968, as well as what I've counted now. In this planning, very serious, studio-like, to atomic proportions, in terms of the smallest details of certain operations, there are the following doctrines: FM 105; for the first time, the concept of PSYOP, or psychological surgery, is introduced into American military terminology. After war experiences in Vietnam and echoes in the UN that caused their intervention, the rule was replaced by the new FM 100-6, the doctrine of information operations; then, FM 3-0530, environmental operations; FM 3-340, civil operations. These doctrines describe the creation of an agent network that can affect the defence system of the attacked territory, the four vital functions of the system in which it is infiltrated to the greatest extent possible, which are: observation, recognition, decision-making and action functions. We saw that one of the most serious operations happened in front of our eyes, let's say above our heads, and that was preparation on October 5th and October 5th. Of course, here I also mentioned some further actions by some of our citizens who belonged to some NGOs and who are trained in countries in the environment. These operations they had practiced and conducted on October 5th here in Serbia took place in Georgia, Ukraine; they tried Belarus; they succeeded, a while ago, in Moldova and two or three years ago, in Kyrgyzstan. So, many foreign intelligence services, and their job is to collect certain information, they must, in addition to their agents, employ some others, especially those local ones from the field, through them to collect a certain amount of information and through an analysis, very serious, implement their ideas and ideas into action. I say, from SFRY to today, we've had countless cases, and that's why we're talking this seriously, so the concept of the opposition is so serious. We believe that through this law we must not allow so much liberalisation of associations of citizens; to join together, to say conditionally, grandmothers and frogs through certain members of the law and to be so easily accepted and registered by foreign associations. Yes, we are for foreign associations, but under much more serious control. Unable to include minors; they may be founders, but they cannot manage and bear responsibility, neither they, nor their guardians or parents. And, that it can be mixed -- underage persons, foreign citizens, who will all form together one association of citizens. We think it's a very big danger, especially because we've been informed on the Internet, every moment, what they think and how they plan to use and abuse members of certain associations of citizens, such as this since 5 September 2003, which is a doctrine for the peace psychological operations of the American army. We also have Canadian sources, if you will; we have documents that he signed personally, as a new rule FM 1, Peter J. Schoomaker, General of the US Army Chief of Staff, so, Chief of Staff. It's all on the Internet, and they're not hiding it. Because of all this, we don't have to put too much effort into some counterintelligence work, we just have to read what they suggest through their own rules. We need to be aware, we need to be serious, and we need to include all this in this law on associations, in protecting our population, in protecting our country. I believe that some of the laws that have emerged in the past three or four months here in the Serbian Parliament, as well as some laws on this agenda, absolutely do not go in favour of preserving the unity of the Serbian state. I think you need to sharpen some attitudes, and this point of Article 2 is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23399	National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23400	Dear fellow Members of the National Assembly, I have submitted two amendments to this law. One is an amendment to Article 49, which is a good amendment and is accepted. I also submitted an amendment to Article 2 of this law, which was not accepted, but I thought perhaps the minister would now accept at the session. Since he is not present, who will accept this amendment? It's just as good as the one that's been accepted. (President: Mr. Otto Kishmarton, just to be clear, there's an associate, Mr. Minister is just out for a moment, he's following everything and he's coming. He'll be given every word you say. He has, by the way, insight into the stenogram. We just can't, if he leaves the gym for a minute or two, we can't stop working. Here you go, and I'd like to continue our work. All right. We're trying to fix the law with amendments. We can't influence whether they adopt or not, but we can influence the improvement of something in the interests of the citizens. In order to understand why we believe that this amendment to Article 2 should be adopted in Article 2(1), the Association, within the meaning of this Law, is a voluntary and non-governmental non-governmental organisation based on the freedom of association of several natural or legal persons, established for the purpose of achieving and improving a specific common or general objective and interest, which is not prohibited by the Constitution or by law. “ Paragraph 4 continues, which says: “The secret and paramilitary associations are forbidden. “ My proposal is to delete that attitude 4 in which it says: secret and paramilitary associations are prohibited, because I consider it excessive. The Constitution prohibits the work of an association whose objectives and actions are aimed at violent destruction of constitutional order, violation of human rights, minority rights and the challenge of racial and religious hatred. Secondly, this law is not about secret associations, it's about associations. If in this position the 4th stand – secret and paramilitary associations are prohibited, I believe it should stand – there are also parapolitan associations, criminal associations, not to list what is forbidden. I don't think that's necessary, because all of this has already been regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. My proposal is to delete Article 2 of Section 4, and the government's argument for which it does not accept the amendment says: "The amendment is not accepted because the proposed solution is in accordance with Article 55(3). The Constitution. “ I fully agree with the Government that the proposed solution is in accordance with Article 55(3). The constitution, where all these associations, paramilitarys and parapolitan formations are forbidden, is why it is unnecessary to stand in this law. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23401	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23402	Madam President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would very much like to welcome Mr. Minister, but he is not here. Regardless of the presence of a lovely assistant, I don't know who I'm explaining the amendment to, so I'm going to say some things that I was going to say when Mr. Secretary enters the O.R. In short, as far as this amendment is concerned, it is partly similar, in fact, to the idea of the same, Mr. Kishmarton's amendment. In fact, on behalf of the DSS, we have submitted an amendment to delete the word "secret"; however, we have left the word "paravio", and I will explain why. It is true that according to the Constitution, both secret and paramilitary associations are forbidden, it is not disputed. Paramilitary associations don't have to be secret and don't have to be their function; it can be covered up in a certain way. In the organisation's statutes, associations can write some uncontested things, and in fact, in mode of action and everything else, they are paramilitary associations, so we think the word "paravio" can be left behind. He doesn't have to, but he can. But the word "secret" absolutely does not have to stand, because this law, by the logic of things, does not deal with secret associations. The secret of the association is something else. They are dealt with, if necessary, by the police, in the case of secret associations dealing with matters forbidden by the Constitution and our laws. I think our proposal is good. I'll talk about the other things when Mr. Secretary shows up in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23403	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banović and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23404	Thank you, Madam President. This Article 5 speaks about the public in the work of the Association of Citizens. We have two short positions. My colleagues from the DSS and I propose to add a new position on 3rd, which reads: “All data collected by associations about their members shall not be allowed, without the written consent of a member of the association or his legal representative, if he is a minor, to be given to the third party. “ We suggest that this third attitude become an integral part of Article 5. In response to the government, the minister said this issue was detailed by the Personal Data Protection Act. I'll remind you all of the situation we had at the end of last year, in December, when the state-run privatisation agency found it appropriate to publish in one daily list as much as 50,000 or 60,000 citizens of Serbia who did not get the conditions for that famous grant of free action. Not to enter the story of a colorful lie and free action now, I stress that the Privatisation Agency has dared to do. Not only did they publish the names and last names of these Serbian citizens, they also announced the place of residence and, inadmissible, they also published the home numbers of those citizens. At that time, the Commissioner for Public Information and Personality Data Protection responded, at least through the media, and in the meantime was the Privatisation Agency punished in some way, I don't know, so this is also a question for the Government: was the Privatisation Agency responsible for such a terrible violation of the Data Protection Act itself in some way, or did it answer to today? So I think that in this law, it is especially important to highlight the fact that all the data that the association has come up with, and these are the personal data of the members of these associations, must also be particularly protected through this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23405	Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Shami, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23406	Madam President, of course, everything I've been saying for over two minutes is at the expense of the official president of the parliamentary group, after those 15 minutes. We have submitted the amendment to Article 5. I remind you that Article 5 has, I say, one of the faults of the law – there are many declarative things that often mean nothing and which, in order not to be declarative, should be specified. Article 5 is brief and says: "The work of the association is public", which is not disputed, and "The achievement of public work is governed by the statute of association". In the view of the Democratic Party of Serbia, this public should be specified in a certain way. We have suggested adding a new position, which reads: “The status of the association can be predicted that meetings of members of the association can be held without public presence. “ It is a perfectly normal remark, since it can also be a public presence. But, let me, there are 20,000 associations, many of them dealing with the same actions, many of them being one other competition in some sense, and it's perfectly natural that if there's an association that's competitive with my association, they're not going to let me attend their meetings and spy on them in some way. Therefore, I think we must allow the public to be disfellowshipped from the meetings of the association. Otherwise, I don't know how to regulate the fact that you have a declarative position that the work of the association is public, and on the other hand, to exclude those who are your competition or who have not come to your meeting with good intentions. Why must the meeting of the members of the association be open to the public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23407	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Deliccio, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23408	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Progressive Party has given an amendment to Article 5, because, as the previous speaker said, where only the first position remains – the work of the association is public, it may be possible to do so, but if it is said that the public is being governed by the statute of association, then the public is absolutely closed by that statute, and we Serbian citizens cannot, after all, see and see how in the statutes of those 20,000 - 30,000 associations this issue of public work is resolved. What is foreseen is that the way in which the public works is achieved is determined by the statutes, however, cannot be sufficiently precise. The registrar shall determine from the statutes when the association is entered, as provided for in Article 5, that the public service obligation of the association is fulfilled and shall assess whether this provision provided for in Article 5 is respected. In this way, the discretionary right of the registrar is placed in this way when deciding to enroll or register the association is further extended, which I do not think is good. The essence of our amendment was to add another point of view, that the public of work included public information and the availability of information on sources of funding. You know, for every association, it's the most important thing to see who's funding it. Whoever's funding him, he's working in a certain area and for his needs. In an explanation that we received from the Government, it is said that the amendment is not accepted, because this is regulated in the basic provisions, and then said – the principle of public work is further discussed in the context of the provisions of this same law. Now I'm just going to direct you to look at how it's regulated in Article 38 and Article 39, which I find insufficient. Article 38 says a public report on work and financing is made available once a year, but only in situations where the association is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Article 39 states that annual accounts and reports on the activities of the association shall be submitted to the members of the association in a manner established by the statute. What does that mean to us? Absolutely nothing. The fact that they have provided for the public to be provided by the statutes, but only according to their members. That is why the essence of this amendment was to at least ensure, whether the association is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget or has some other means of financing, that the public be made available in these annual reports at least reports on how these funds were spent. As a result, the SNS believes that this supplement or this third position should have found its place in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23409	On behalf of the above members of the 8th and Article 8th amendments, MPs Dragan Colic and Stefan Zankov submitted together. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Cholic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my esteemed colleague, Mr. Stefan Zankov, and I, for the submission of this amendment, have been motivated by the excess of the title above Article 8. Proposal for a law and article 8 itself. If the purpose of this debate is to make this law useful, to find its application in practice and to be precise, clear, concise, then it is not good that something is missing and that there are extra members. What is in this Article 8, is not something that is particularly significant and would contribute to a better application in this sphere, but if we are already doing this job, then, if we are carefully reading this bill, and I am sorry that Mr Markovic is not present, we see very clearly that there is something excessive here. That's why it would be good for our amendment to be accepted, but knowing your method of work, I'm not very optimistic about this case. Article 8 reads: “Statusal changes of the association are done in a manner established by this law”, and then, as evidenced by this claim, in Article 1, the subject matter of the law states: “This law regulates the establishment and legal position of the association, registration and erasure from registers, membership and bodies, status changes and termination of the association, as well as other issues relevant to the operation of the association. “ Then, as I suspect that someone who wrote this tripped with the mind a little bit, a little cleverly tripped, we have status changes, Article 45, which defines the concept of status changes, which reads: “Status change is a change in the legal position of the association made on the basis of the decision of the competent authority in accordance with the statute and this law. Status changes are the attachment, merger and division of the association. “ Just enough, quite clearly, quite accurate. For this reason, on behalf of my distinguished colleague, who is justifiably not present at this session, I would ask that the parliamentary majority or government accept this amendment in order to at least fix this a little bit, so that the application of this law finds its purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23411	Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23412	Thank you. Mr. Radulovic and I filed on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia the amendment that says: "The associations can establish at least five founders who must have a residence, or headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. “ We support the principled idea of this law that no excessive fence should be put in place when it comes to the possibility of establishing an association. Therefore, a large number of signatures, a large procedure, etc. should not be foreseen. That's what we support. However, in the text of the law, it is said that there can be three, that the troika can organise an association, but only one must be a citizen of Serbia. That's kind of funny after all. You know, you have a citizen from Serbia who's building an association. Then we wrote five. Of course, there can be five, and seven and ten, it's not a dispute; it can't be much, we support it, and that's why we've proposed such an amendment. Since after 28 minutes of absence, Mr. Minister still entered the hall (so it was not about one minute), let me repeat the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia in the debate in principle. First, we welcome the need to pass this law, we support this need, it is not disputed. Moreover, we said that in many ways the law was professionally written, although frankly, I don't know who wrote it professionally. We also said that we have submitted 27 amendments with the aim of making some of the objections we have on the text of the law... Contradictions are mostly contained in two things: one thing is that some times they are merely declarative claims that do not mean much without further explanation and, on the other hand, we have seen a certain number of inaccuracies. I assure Mr. Secretary that none of the 27 amendments submitted by the DSS Parliamentary Group were written with the intention of fundamentally changing the idea of the law. So the idea of the law is fine, we just wanted to fix the text of the law. So I have to admit that I am completely incomprehensible that of all 27 of the DSS amendments, the government has accepted zero. I can't help but feel that by any chance some of these amendments have signed some "like" parliamentary groups he probably has been accepted. I will say my final assessment of this, of course, in the end, because I expect Mr. Minister at the session, confident of the arguments that DSS representatives have, however, for the sake of general gain, which is a better text of the law, to accept some amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23413	Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23414	This is probably one of the most important members, if such a graduation can be done in some law, which is important and which is not important, but one of the basic members of this bill can be said. We asked the amendment to increase the number of founders, and that minimum number, from three to thirty. In order for an association of citizens to exist, to act, it takes a greater number of founders as a form of seriousness of that group of people to want to do this job, which they stated in their founding act is a cohesion factor that brings people together for some, it is considered, socially useful and acceptable activities. Of course, the government won't accept this because it comes from the principle of one, two, plural, so it's already three. Three is enough for organized crime. You know for yourself, when some extraordinary measures are taken and if freedom of assembly is prohibited, then it is said – no more than three etc. But since they're from that vest, they're the best way to figure it out. However, this law generally has the wrong call, which dominates the entire law. Freedom of association is an individual right. It was given to a citizen, an individual. Under certain conditions, a minor can have that right, of course, if he's older. But, basically, it's a right that is recognised to full-time citizens who are businessable and they have a place of residence. This right of the RS Constitution does not recognise legal persons because legal persons do not have identity. The legal person is not only represented, but must have a legal representative, a tutor. That's how you came up with this bill, because you put physical and legal persons in the same rank as the founder. Legal entities can't be the founders of some association of citizens, because they have no identity, no personality. When a legal person responds, he has an imaginary responsibility. She's not original. A man with a name and a last name, with a certain height, weight and his property, is something recognizable from the point of view of responsibility. How are you gonna get a legal person to go to jail? He should be responsible for someone in front of a legal person, to be a legal representative. A legal representative of a legal person can't be the founder of an association of citizens. There's a legal face put in here as a sponsor for some associations. Such amnesty is done, or an unnatural state is legalized. The entire complex of works of the Constitution where the Declaration of Freedoms and Rights of Man and citizen implies an individual as the bearer of certain rights. Human rights are guaranteed to an individual, not a legal person. The legal person has his own legal interest, legitimate legal interest. Proposers have also placed legal persons there to cover that the founder of the association is, for example, the Black Women and some Cultural Decontamination Centre, which has legal personality status. That's how you cover a financier who gets money from abroad or from abroad. Maybe I took the wrong example. It doesn't matter, at the very least, but the legal person can't be the founder of the Citizens' Association, he practically can't. In order to establish an association of citizens, regardless of whether hobbyists who are passively fond of a particular area, a particular activity, it takes a number of founders to obtain a kind of social verification. Three can go to the coffee table, and 30 can go a little harder. I don't want to devalue citizens' associations. There are some who need to be banned and whose founders should be sent to prison for destructive and anti-constitutional action, affecting the psyche, consciousness, etc. But there are also those associations of citizens who are socially acceptable and fulfilling a socially beneficial function, especially those concerning the protection of children's rights or humanitarian activities that they take. The subject of our criticism is not those associations of citizens. We asked the amendment to increase the number of mandatory founders. However, in the amendment, we didn't write this about legal persons, but by the logic of things, it has to be thrown out, because a legal person can't be the founder. Under certain conditions, for some types of association, it is true that there is a standard that minors can be. It would be a good idea to throw it out with us, but it wouldn't be a problem for a child to be a member of an association. It's one thing when he's a member of the association, and another is the situation when it comes to the founder, that we understand each other. Underage children are members of an association – "Gorani", nature lovers etc. The question of membership is one thing, and the question of founding status is a completely different question. Since I use the time the party has, I would draw attention to another terrible lack of this bill, and it concerns foreign associations operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Please, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees freedom of association for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Foreigners are not guaranteed, because all status rights are achieved by foreigners in their own country. If they are from Switzerland, they are entitled to, or freedom of association in Switzerland. And if they wanted to act here in some way, then it's possible to sign their legal face and their legal face should be entered not as an association of citizens, but as a legal person, to have some kind of verification as a legal person. But he must respect all our regulations, and unless he respects it, he needs to be banned from working. They cannot be banned from giving the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, because they cannot have the same status as citizens' associations in the Republic of Serbia. Citizens' associations in the Republic of Serbia are citizens' organisations, and the association that works abroad and which is registered here is a legal person and should be treated as a legal person: as a correspondence by a foreign agency in Serbia, "Reuters", is listed as a legal person, the Committee of the Red Cross, Doctors without Borders, who knows what there is. It's registered as a legal person, it's a legal entity. If he oversteps his powers and violates our regulations, he is forbidden work, action, but not the Constitutional Court. It's not the same procedure. In domestic associations, citizens of the Republic of Serbia enjoy the freedom guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In foreign associations, citizens who act here, where they are registered as legal persons, do not exercise that freedom. They're accomplishing some kind of basic activity. There's another kind of mix-up going on and it's putting something in the same basket that's incompatible. Intimately, I have many reasons to object to the fact that foreign associations of citizens are even registered with us, especially those international ones, because they have not shown respect for the Constitution of the RS, but have destructive activity, primarily spy, intelligence, recruiting for this so-called. a politrical action to tear apart this country of ours. That's what I'm saying. There's countless evidences for that. The fact that the government has to tolerate it is another matter. It must not be the Constitutional Court's jurisdiction, but entirely other regulations, which apply to legal persons. Of course, I'm not an idealist, I know that the Government will be reluctant to reject this amendment and all our amendments, because it is not actually designed for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and for the freedom and rights of citizens guaranteed by the RS Constitution. They are still at that Eurofanatic stage, in Euro-Atlantic integration, non-critical, at all costs, etc. They think this variant and this guy, "on your own", is something the world accepts. The world accepts, but citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel the consequences of you accepting everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23415	The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23416	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, I submitted to Article 10(1) the amendment: "The association can establish at least ten founders, with at least three of the founders having to have a residence, or headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia." In Article 10(3), paragraph 3 is deleted. This is primarily important in order to allow the bodies of the association to function uninterruptedly. The aim of the association is to respect the will of a greater number of persons, both legal and physical, who have an interest in association. Maintaining such a small number of founders would have no purpose of supporting the participation of a larger number of persons to express the fundamental objective of this law. A minor may and should be a member of the association, but it is illogical and unacceptable, given the level of responsibility the law provides for founders and members, that a minor may be the founder. The status of a minor is regulated by a member of the 19th draft law. Mr. Minister, it's very interesting, and it's particularly interesting that the draft law and government of this number of amendments submitted by the opposition parties... New Serbia has submitted 25 amendments and no amendments have been accepted. Mr. Shami also made that observation, and Mr. Krasic. In particular, this member we're talking about is extremely important. I can support all three solutions, which both Mr Krasic and Mr Shami pointed out, and the New Serbia Parliament Club also has the same remark. Is it possible that you or your associates who work this bill are not even concerned that a minor, if necessary, should be the founder, even though I have attacked it with an amendment? In a situation where we have three founders, one of whom can be a minor with his legal representative and two who do not have a residence in the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, you have a hypothetical situation, given the prepared economic crimes and major violations, that these two founders will "burn" from this country, people say. Who's gonna be responsible for this situation? In a situation where you have ten founders, five or thirty, you have the possibility that a responsible person in that association will not be a minor, but his legal representative. That's why it's unacceptable for me that you can't accept something exactly where we can see our intention to fix the law. You have ten founders at the agricultural cooperative, Mr. Minister. This is what the promoter generally wants us, the opposition parties, to say – see, you are not for the fact that children can be called to various charters. But here's the problem with the number of founders and the responsibility. Can Serbian citizens imagine what will happen after the law is applied, when it comes to criminal provisions? We'll talk about this later, but it's time to say that people are going to be evading mass, Mr. Minister, to be involved in any association, because you're predicting penalties for economic crimes from 300,000 to 900,000 dinars and you're predicting violations that are such that they're not going to enter the association, but they're going to bypass a kilometer from the association. We have big problems, as you can see. When all this comes into effect, and the sport law is being prepared, we will totally destroy our youth. But some individual solutions will be discussed further in detail. I will point out once again, the message of this amendment is that the number of founders is unacceptable, given that a minor with his legal representative can stay in the country and that two, who do not have to be from the territory, can leave this country. Who will answer in such a situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23417	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mrs. Vojić-Markovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23418	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will talk about the amendment that we have submitted together as a parliamentary group. I'll start with what the minister said at the moment we presented in the principle debate, as our conclusion, that the DSS MPs are handled by who signs the law. Actually, that's what he's showing me what he thinks about it. After that statement, it was clear to me that none of the amendments submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia would accept. It shows, in fact, that he hasn't even read our amendments, nor is he interested in the content of our amendments at all. As a parliamentary group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 10(2), which reads: “The founders of the association can be business-friendly natural or legal persons. ” In fact, we felt that this "can" should change and write "must". We suggested this because we had in mind that in the past few years Serbia has signed several conventions and passed several laws, a whole set of laws, which change the status and professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities and that these people get business ability. When we changed this "can" to "moral" we had first and foremost this in mind. I saw from the reasons that the government, in fact, rejected our amendment because it was not in accordance with Article 10(3), which states that minors at age 14, could also be the founders of the association, with a statement of consent by their legal representative in accordance with the law. If this is an explanation given by the minister and the government, then it shows that this position 2 should be deleted, then they may or may not have to, there is no need to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23419	Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23420	Article 10(3) provides that a minor from 14 years of age may be the founder of an association with a statement of consent of his legal representative in accordance with the law. We don't think that's a good solution and that only adult faces can be the founders of the association. The explanation given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for which it does not accept this amendment is quite broad, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states: "As the age limit of 14 years of life in certain regulations of the Republic of Serbia is taken as the basis for the acquisition of certain rights and responsibilities, the bill stipulates that up to 14 years of life a statement from the child's legal representative, and with 14 years of age a statement made by a minor, with a statement of consent from his legal representative. “ The minister here, when we discussed and criticised this in principle, also spoke of the right to work guaranteed by the Constitution. I'd just like to remind you of Article 52. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia which speaks of electoral law, Article 60. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which in this sense, in its final position, says that women, young women (and related to labour rights) and disabled persons are given special protection at work, special conditions in accordance with the law. And these constitutional solutions are, in some ways, limited. Why else do we think that, apart from this connection to the Constitution, or unconstitutionalness, I would say, these provisions? You can't send a child on a field trip today if both parents don't confirm a written statement that he can go on a field trip; you can't send a 17-year-old child, let alone 14, with grandparents, uncle, aunt, aunt, I don't know who, on vacation abroad if you don't get the consent of both parents certified in the municipal administration or in the competent court. What are we doing with these laws? We, by this law and by this attitude of Article 3, 10, in a situation where, unfortunately, thanks to, above all, to the punitive work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, most parents do not have enough to feed children, and on expensive shoes, excursions, summering, wintering many in this country, many children can only dream, in such an economic situation, in such a social misery, this law actually pushes our children from 14 years of age to someone who will for a little while draw them into various NGOs (I am talking about those NGOs that are financed from abroad, who are fully open to the interests of the Serbian and Serbian state), we are pushing them into various sects, etc. So, you, Minister, I'm sure, were well-intentioned when you suggested this. You may have thought of some associations that look about like a child's game, but when you prescribe something like this by law, then the danger is very, very great. I just want to remind you, very briefly – when we talked about the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination, one of the colleagues who voted in favour of the law, from the ruling coalition, in an optional conversation in front of me asked why we were so bothered by the gay population, gay marriages, etc. I asked him if he truly thought that the law was good and he said – yes, of course, the most honest and intimate. To my question does this mean that he wouldn't mind his son bringing a boy tomorrow and presenting him to the guests as his future sister-in-law, he said - I'm not so much for the law. So it's hypocritical. Now I ask all the colleagues who will vote for this bill whether they will allow their fourteen-year-old children to join in where they think they are, or where they are attracted to money, gifts, etc. Or will they keep their children tucked in in their wing, and tell their other children – we are a democratic, broad-minded law that you can team up, that you are recruited by Natasa Kandić, and Sonja Biserko and Jehovah’s Witnesses, and I don’t know who? So it's hypocritical, too. Mr. Minister, I don't think you're a hypocritical man, on the contrary, so I suggest you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23421	Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23422	Your Honor, Madam President, I only need one technical order of this amendment's interpretation to present. I don't know how that happened, probably by mistake. This amendment was put in front of the NS Parliamentary Group together by Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and my little one, so three MPs were signed, and one name was probably missing. We planned to present this topic together, i.e. to explain the amendment that we ask for Article 10 to be deleted from Article 3, which reads: “A minor person from 14 years of age can be the founder of the association with a statement of consent of its legal representative in accordance with the law,” and Article 4. which explains this written statement in accordance with the law. First of all, what we cannot support, which is why the NS Parliament Club cannot support this law, is the number of founders and the age of the founders of the association. In order to propose and adopt such a law in this high house, I am interested in whether the Ministry was involved in serious research into the current effects of the association that existed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, sociological research, psychological, economic, and ethical, given that associations significantly change social awareness and relations in society? It is planned that the civil sector has a serious impact on all spheres of life in Serbia. We are interested in whether there are research on the current profiles of the association, their effectiveness, positive or negative effects and the consequences they have had so far, so that we do not constantly deal with the consequences when they occur. Is there ever something that we can predict and prevent from happening? The number of founders, three founders, three fourteen-year-olds or any other combination where the founder can be fourteen years old, can indeed be the subject of numerous manipulations and can indeed result in serious consequences in society, no matter how it is misused. This is not something that is so far unknown in all societies, and a society that wants to install that kind of association and that kind of possibility for minors must have all other mechanisms to control the possible consequences. So we haven't shown up until now that we're ready to control everything that happens to minors in our society. An increase in juvenile delinquency, an increase in drug abuse, an increase in violence and forms of violence warns us that such a legal project must be approached with far more seriousness; it is necessary to follow laws that will be able to sanction immediately, in the fastest possible way, possibly harmful consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23423	Mrs. Djeric, it is true that Miss Alexandra Ilic made up the amendment with you, but she did not sign it, so that is the only reason she is not here. Mr. Milan Markovic, Minister, wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23424	As far as this law is concerned, I know he's interested in opening up a lot of topics, from religious communities to youth education, child care, etc. I understand that there are many amendments and many of these amendments, in reality, are not related to this law. I just have to express my surprise. I don't mind at all the principled attitude of the SRS or the Progressive Club, Serbia, regarding the provisions of this law, but I don't understand how the Progressive Coalition, which created these provisions, is now against those provisions. I'm sorry you changed your mind. I must tell you, you've created all these provisions. That's the government where I was the opposition. I was here in the Assembly when these provisions were created. These are the provisions of the 2006 law. Mr. Velimir Ilic voted twice for these provisions, twice voted literally for each of these provisions that you attack. Mr. Kostunica chaired the government that adopted these provisions that you're attacking. Mr. Lonchar wrote these provisions that you're attacking. There may be some problems inside your party right now or something like that, but believe me, when they did that, they did good things. There were some good things in that government, but this is one of the good things. Thus, both Mr Ilic and Mr Kostunica have well assessed these provisions as leaders of the coalition. I was the opposition back then. That's probably why the government fell, because Mr. Kostunica and Mr. Ilic had no authority to convince you, honourable MPs, to support those provisions of the law. The public still needs to know that. So it's so wise to speak in this congregation, so the public needs to know. I'm just saying, they may have made a little bit of a mistake, but they're not that bad, but these laws are good. I've talked to Mr. Loncar more than once, and I've talked to Mr. Kostunica. I've had a chance to discuss the provisions of this law; I don't know if you've had the chance, maybe it would help if you'd talked to him about the provisions of this law. I think it's well-conceived in this law. I haven't changed much since 2006, until now, the provisions of this law, but certainly I'm not these provisions that you're attacking. Good, at least we know the government actually had to fall, because these two leaders didn't have the power to convince their MPs to vote for this bill. That is why this law did not pass in 2006 and 2007.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23425	The word has Mr. Velimir Ilic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23426	Here, Mr. Minister, I listened very carefully. There was a coalition in that government that had a part that had you too that imposed something on you to break through under that European law firm. And you, Mr. Minister, as I recall, voted unanimously for the concession, and then a coalition partner came to you and you knocked it down. You were all unanimous that it was the biggest investment in Serbia. I followed the course of that session where you all said it was the biggest investment in Serbia's history, that it had to be done, that it was great, etc. See for yourself that's why things change. Don't accuse the entire coalition of who voted; you had to vote for something you didn't want. I repeat, you have brought down the concession after one part of the government and the formation of your new government because one of your coalition partners insisted on it. To keep the government, you had to destroy it. Of course, you voted for many things that, I mean, you don't personally accept. I remember your president and the speech about Ahtisaari's plan, about Eulex, about the situation in Kosovo; you voted all of it, and then you stepped on it with some, for God's sake, six points, which no one mentions today. Here, now you allow us to be compromised so much, humiliated by the Dutch, that we come, and they say – we can't do that anymore. You saw, Djelic answered, says – it's all over, but they say – not yet. You see for yourself that many things change. Governments change. I'm very sorry that many projects that are good fail because certain governments get coalition partners to tear it down. Now, I see, your party is attacking power in Kragujevac, saying it's corrupt, it's criminal, it needs to be arrested, etc. And you're coalition partners here. What does that look like? There, you see, the government, gathered from the carriage, with the rope, has everything. That's what happened back then. You think Dinkic liked us in that government? I guarantee it isn't, and it certainly doesn't suit you as much as I do, but you have to put up with him and his laws to accept, shut up, cool down, and come here to defend something that's indefensible. But what you're going to do is that's the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23427	Mr. Minister, and then Mr....
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23428	Mr. Velimir Ilic is charming and funny. I understand your need to open other topics now, but I have to remind you, this is a law in which our coalition partner absolutely does not interfere, absolutely did not interfere. This is the law that directly created Mr. Loncar in the government where I was the opposition. You were in that government. The provisions that attack your MP club, Mr. Ilich... I used your name figuratively, you're not angry when I said, you know what voting in the government looks like. But these provisions, Mr. Ilic, have created this government where you and Mr. Kostunica have sat down, and now your MP clubs are attacking absolutely all these provisions. I didn't create them, that government created them. When we created a common government, when I became a minister, I inherited my esteemed colleague, Mr. Loncar, I kept those provisions and we all voted together for those provisions. I'm staying consistent. Now that you're not in the government again, I bring those same provisions before the Assembly, but your MP clubs, Mr. Ilic, are attacking those provisions with such broad explanations, until there are some qualifications that this is one way or another. I'm just surprised by that. That's all I wanted to say. Then I concluded that, in fact, Mr. Ilich, not some coalition partner has brought down the government for us. Mr. Ilic, it is obvious that our government has fallen, even yours before ours, because neither you nor Mr. Kostunica could convince your parliamentary clubs to vote in favour of these provisions that we have adopted at the government. That's more than obvious now. Or your MPs' clubs have changed their minds since then, so now they're against what they've been for twice, practically, a year and two years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23429	This really was an explanation of the continuity of work. No offense. Mr. Shami has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23430	Mr. Markovic, I have great understanding of what you're saying. I fully understand your position. You are completely freed from the need to think. Boris Tadic is thinking for you, he tells you... Mr. Shami... Let me finish the thought... (President: You cannot say that MPs are relieved of the obligation to think. Please don't throw it away, you'll get a ticket. ) Unlike you, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have written amendments to the laws that our ministers have proposed. They criticized the work of our ministers in some situations, if they thought he wasn't good. I did it myself, so what? Does that mean we don't have to take it now? We also submitted amendments when the law was first discussed. Therefore, the only difference is whether the party in its name has an attribute "democratic" or is essentially democratic. I repeat, I have a lot of understanding for your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23431	Mr. Minister, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23432	If we exclude what should have been some sort of insult to my account and to the expense of my party, let it serve you honor, how can you not tolerate this amendment when we have established the bill while the Prime Minister was Vojislav Kostunica? The same bill, this part you're applying to the amendments is identical, I haven't changed the decimal. How then, Mr. Shami, do you not show that democracy within the DSS? It is your right to submit amendments, but at one point I was a little distracted – you tell me to respond to your amendments and then I really had to tell you. I can't see your amendments as honest, and your alleged plot to fix the text of the law. What kind of an effort to fix the text of the law? I can understand these two parliamentary groups, those people have their views, they've never been in favour of these provisions, they haven't written them in any way, their officials have written these provisions, but the DSS, whose minister is Zoran Loncar... Well, don't make me defend Zoran Lonchar more than you. Don't make me appreciate his work more than you do. Or maybe he's not with you anymore? But I don't care about that at all. I'm just saying, why can't they stand one of these amendments when as Minister of the Same Law I proposed in the previous government and when Zoran Loncar as Minister suggested this in the previous government? Where was your democracy back then? What was the problem then to propose these amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23433	The word is Mr. Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23434	Mr. Minister, I'm so sorry, you're getting us all wrong. Mines we defend no one, but you know well that one law passes the procedure in the government, that it must obtain consent from the legislation, from the Ministry of Finance, from all the ministries that are relevant and that the law loses its initial form that was imagined. Every law that passes the procedure in the government is nevertheless the law of some compromise between coalition partners. It doesn't have to be that one party or coalition, two parties can create one law, but the law... Of course, you know well, when the legislation says – you have to change that, that and that, and the finances say – we will give a positive opinion if you change that, that and that, we have had to, and there have always been some compromises, as you do now. Just remember, when we were in government, how much your party, the Democratic Party, was throwing sharp arrows at support, working with the SPS, and that's what your campaign was about, and now you're solid coalition partners. I don't think Boris Tadic has a bigger friend than Dacic now, you are now extremely connected, firm, etc. But it's after the election. You tricked the electoral body, you went out with one story, you attacked us because we worked with the SPS, and then you made a coalition and many laws, you solved many problems in a completely different way. You have fiercely criticised some of the parties, which have brought you many projects and which are completely turning you off from your democratic path. That's what the last elections are showing. Therefore, Mr. Minister, anything is possible in coalitions. Don't attack the predecessors now. It is very strange to me, when someone comes to power, he attacks those before him that they have done nothing good. We didn't deal with you. I remember that one of your ministers was supposed to be arrested, so it came from the president's office not to do that, because she's mentally into prison. I haven't met anyone who's mentally positive about prison. Then we respected that decision and didn't arrest her. There were a lot of problems, a lot of irregularities. We didn't do your bad work, we started working right away and creating, and that's why we did good results. You are now only dealing with the past, what Vojislav Kostunica and his government did. The government has been the best in Serbia for the last 20 years, which is what every citizen in Serbia says and there is no dilemma. Here, what we built and did, you can't tag the white tape today. I guarantee you, during your term of office, you won't be able to tag the white tape, mark the parking lots and everything. That's why you have to work a little harder. All the projects have stopped. The Temerian loop is our project. The Beška Bridge is our project. The tour around Belgrade is our project. The Watch Tower tunnel is our project. Kokin's boat is our project. This, the Macedonian border and Corridor 10, is entirely our project. You've solved property-legal relations and you're finishing these projects. No new project, Mr. Minister, has begun. No new project. That's got to worry you. No new loan has come here. All the loans that were ratified were our loans. Only these three billion, which you got at the small door to see that Kosovo enters the IMF. It's a project. It's an honor. I don't know how you managed to solve it. Therefore, I remember when your defence minister was one of the leaders who was now speaking here in parliament in your coalition -- he's a tree. We were all laughing. You laughed and said it was like that, and now you're big friends, now maybe she's a pet, flowers someone, etc. Remember when we told your minister here that four tanks were recycled on the polygon, and he said it wasn't possible; when he checked, it was really like that. Therefore, do not just look at others and criticize them. You'll be the opposition very soon, and there's no point in just dealing with the opposition, so tomorrow we'll have to deal with you. We won't do it, because we have a lot of work to do in Serbia and hopefully to do it successfully. That's why this law isn't good, because a minor can open up, build an association. It's not good. Foreigners can do it with one of our citizens. It's impossible for a minor to open up, not have any responsibility, not even for parents to give consent and to respond. We've made a series of criticisms. Those criticisms are completely justified. Let's fix it a little bit and get it in order. We're ready. Be ready, too. Be a little tolerant, think about these municipalities, transfer funds. Here, municipalities don't have bread to eat, believe me. I daily follow, when you take Koseric (here, there are 60 million elections there today), how much of the two billion you take from their cement store, you take from them 35 percent, a reduction in the transfer funds. What are they gonna do with so little money? Do you know how much this area is? It is at the bottom of Divchibar; people have an obligation to do something, to hire and hence the people go mass. There are no young people. That came out in the last election. So, you see little transfer funds for that Black Grass, for the Shop, the Citizen. Don't just attack. You see a little something for Bosilegrad, and that's where the people should live, work and work. Somehow, we don't deal with ordinary life. We're doing peripheral stuff. We adopt everything and everything. We're wasting a lot of time and a lot of hours in the debates, and we're completely suppressing other real problems. You see, it was humiliating for me to have one Holland come out again and say, "There's nothing for now." We will honor this agreement unilaterally. That really doesn't make sense. You're talking about a "white Schengen" visa. I think you're making a big campaign out of it, and it's nothing. Believe me, the people have no bread to eat. Who's gonna be able to buy a plane ticket, travel around Europe somewhere? A small number of people again. You've completely killed the last crew, it's gone. Therefore, there are many problems in Serbia. You have to start a business, you have to deal with agriculture, seriously, very seriously, and not the way Dragin thinks, school, etc., to apply it. It can't practically come back to life. He's got a lot of problems. You know you have conflicts inside your big party. You've got to get Pitch under control. You've got to get a lot of others under control. You can see for yourself. So put order in your own corner, and then think about others. I'd be happy to, but you're still the ruling coalition. We from the opposition expect you to at least do something without ruining everything. It will be difficult tomorrow when we come to power, believe me. If you continue at this pace, there will be a lot of problems in Serbia and it will take years and years to correct all this. You have some vermin in the government that have broken many projects. Here, none of these pests come to parliament sessions. They don't care at all, they just come to vote. Now they're doing their own network, five thousand people are supposed to hire in their administration, which you've allowed them to do; five thousand people are going to get a job in various agencies, national, district, regional, statistical, things you didn't come up with, etc. It'll be very difficult, it'll be new money. You can see that the budget is very slow to fill. The budget is extremely slow and has no money to charge the budget. Jelasic suggests a new rebalancing, and you have nowhere to go. Don't take your clothes off, Mr. Minister. So do something concrete, do something concrete. Take care of Vojvodina, do those irrigation systems. You see the city kills half of Serbia. Why don't you solve that problem? Your man is in flight control. There's a salary of 10,000 euros, and because of the overflight, our peasants have a disaster. Look at certain areas, they won't have anything to survive when winter comes. Help a little something concrete to be done. Don't get carried away by European laws, Europe said this, Europe said gay parade, Europe said this, it's not that important. It may be important for some of your ministers, but I hope it's not for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23435	The word was sought by Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23436	Just to give Mr. Ilic a chance to tell us something, since he's touched a lot of the subject, some word might be about this situation on the Korean Peninsula. If there's anything you can tell us, it'd be good. So I remain on the question of how it is possible to vote twice for Article 10's provision. (I was once an opposition when you voted for it, and once I was the authority along with you when you voted for it), that no amendment should you invest as parliamentary clubs of the People's Coalition? Twice the law was in the process. All of a sudden, you're in trouble right now that... Here, I didn't even write. He wrote by Zoran Loncar, a minister from the Democratic Party of Serbia. Suddenly, of all these MPs and MPs, the most attacks on what man wrote were just... Look how correct I am, I'm not going to throw what Mr. Lonchart was doing. He worked hard and worked, and now I'm gonna throw it under my feet, step out, what would that look like? What would that look like, you were a colleague of his in the government, Mr. Ilic, if I were to spit on what you and I had determined together? And you and I, together with our voices, have established what you have previously established with Mr. Kostunica and Loncar, which is that the founders are only three adult or minor natural or legal persons for the association. Yet I hold on to what we have done together, there have been good times in our work together. I still respect that and, according to that, I remained consistent. I hope you change your mind and give up these amendments and we can bring this job to an end, not to waste any time, it doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23437	The word was requested by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23438	Thank you. Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I would like to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 100, 102, 103, 104. It is unacceptable for Mr. Bojan Pajtic or any other official to be insulted here, since this is not the topic of today's session and today's agenda. It is obvious that it is good for some political parties to be in opposition, because we now see some subsequent opposition mind and criticism in relation to some phenomena that they did not correct when they had a position and opportunity to work, when they were in power. I would like to say that there are no divisions in the Democratic Party, that there is no need for anyone from the DS to be under any control, because the DS shows its strength both in parliament and in other institutions that it manages in this country. I think it's inappropriate to talk like this about people who are in charge and come from the Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23439	Anybody else answer for a word? People's MP Velimir Ilic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23440	I'd use time for a replica. I'm very sorry when someone doesn't accept their mistakes. I mentioned here that it is impossible for one serious party, and I consider DS to be a serious party, to shut down one of the biggest projects, in a major investment crisis, such as concession, without any justification for what was wrong and what was wrong, because that was what Pajtic wanted because his coalition partner from Vojvodina wanted it. And it's off. You see, you don't even know you have five currents; they come to me all the time, complaining, talking, with many others here. Better we follow you from the side than you do yourself. You're full of yourself and you're saying you're compact, that you have good authority, and do you have good co-operation with the authorities in Belgrade? You don't. You didn't have one in the last government of Belgrade either. It was a fierce conflict at the Democratic Party's summit. You don't have your people, here, now you need to run some investigative operations in Kragujevac, you don't have the strength to do that. Your board called and you kept quiet. Many of your boards, your men from Zrenjanin, have called and you are silent. Your mayor called, with heavy charges. It's your turn to talk, because that's correct. We expected you to say what's right, which is true. Therefore, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, you accept all of this, all of this goes to your soul, however it may be, but Serbia is difficult. I repeat, the other day we were listening here about agriculture, 35 dinars have accumulated oil for the last few months of New Year's Eve. You're in charge of four billion in this year's Serbia. Four billion euros! What did you do with four billion euros? You spent it. You have 2,260,000,000 euros left from that government, and these four billion, six billion and something. Mrs. Kalanovic did not pay the passengers seven billion from the NIP this year. It's debts. You haven't even paid for a tour around Belgrade yet. You don't pay the Macedonian border, you pay nothing, gentlemen. Then you will ask, "Why do you owe?" Because you don't pay in time. Therefore, please be serious, you are the ruling coalition, do not take Serbia into the sun. If you can't, give the election, there are those who will come and finish the job. As you didn't know after Zivkovic's government where you were going and what you were going to do, well called the election, it was correct. People came and put it in order, arranged it, set Serbia to normal, and then moved on...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23441	People's MP, replica time's up. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović. Please sign in again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23442	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. We lost almost an hour without discussing the amendments. If Mr. Minister, who isn't here right now, and I wish he were, he didn't start discussing with us who has been the author of this law since 2006 and that he's angry because we're submitting amendments and that it shows that he seems to be emotionally related to these members, we wouldn't have lost this much time and we'd probably have 20 amendments done. So everyone needs to do their job. He's the minister in front of both the government and his ministry, and he signed the law, and he defends him here. All MPs, not only MPs of the opposition, but also of our colleagues in the so-called The ruling coalition, very often submit amendments, does their job by explaining the amendment in two minutes. He's back on the minister whether he accepts it or not. And a dot. Everyone do their job and things will go well. I'll get to my job and talk about article 11. Article 11(2) lists what all the founding act of the association should contain. This is quite detailed and, among other things, it is said that the founding act must contain the signatures of the founders and their unique home numbers of citizens when it comes to founders who are citizens of Serbia. Further in the extension of this attitude, the number of travel documents and the state of issuing a travel document for founders who are foreign citizens. Therefore, if a foreign citizen wants to be the founder of an association, the number of his travel document must also be indicated and which country is the publisher of that travel document. (President: Two minutes. I will also use the time of the parliamentary group. What does our amendment consist of? In that, following the words "who are foreign citizens", "who are resident in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for a year, which proves to be valid prescribed certificates", which are usually issued in the MUP. We are a little stricter here, in the sense that a foreign citizen who wants to participate in Serbia, i.e. establishing an association of citizens, must be in Serbia for at least a year and must prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23443	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12 on behalf of the NS Parliament Club. I will read the beginning of Article 12: "The status is a basic general act of the association. “ Paragraph 2 states: “Other general acts, if the association brings them, ” I stress, if the association brings them, “they must be in agreement with the statute. ” The amendment proposes that the second term "if the association brings them" be deleted. Reason: Associations, other than statutes, must also have rules on the work of the Authority. They are necessary for the proper functioning of the association. For this reason, it is unsustainable and unacceptable to be at the disposition of associations not to adopt the acts they need to function properly. All that we have said before - the number of founders, which is only reduced to three, of which I will point out again, one can be a minor and two foreign citizens and this possibility that the association is not obliged to adopt acts that are under the statutes, which directly regulate how one association will function – is the real introduction to criminal provisions and sanctions, which are rigorous in this law. The message of the amendment is well-intentioned and I don't see any reason why the Proposer should not adopt such a meaningful amendment, for all these reasons. Because from the first moment to the last member, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, regardless of what the minister criticises that someone once supported this law, not all of these people agree with these laws that you bring, 50%; in the towers they tell us – so we think the same thing. Therefore, it cannot be an excuse to pass one of these laws, especially when we have a good desire to amend something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23445	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23446	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as well as my colleagues, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12 relating to the statute of association. It seems to me that this entire member is quite engrossed and the consequence of the fact that we have a great variety of associations, which this member tried to put inside the statutes. That's one of the basic reasons why I was forced to submit this amendment. The second reason is, I mean, just as important. I don't think the terms used in this law correspond to the spirit of our language. What I have proposed with my amendment are some technical corrections in the law itself. Obviously, this law itself will not be able to solve the problem of the association. Like I said, there's a large number of associations, over 30,000 associations. It is necessary to pass some laws that will specifically apply to certain groups of associations. It's necessary to sort them out, systemize them. We will experience, in the most recent time, that we have additional laws, which will solve this area in a much better way, and therefore, hopefully, the concepts used in this law will be more appropriate, that it will be much more suited to the spirit of our language, so there will be no need for these amendments to be submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23447	Anyone else want a word? The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. The government has accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23448	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 13, final position. In Article 13. The bill in the last position states: “The name of the association cannot contain the elements provided for in Article 3(2) of this Act. “ What it says is fine, of course. I would like to remind you that Article 3(2) states that the objectives and functioning of the association cannot be directed at the violent collapse of the constitutional order, etc. So, things that aren't controversial. However, in our proposal for an amendment, we asked for another sentence to be added: "Also, the name of the association cannot be associated with associations and organisations that had elements in the past provided for in Article 3(2) of this Law. “ We also submitted a similar amendment to the Law on political parties when it came to the name of the political party. At that time, the government rightly accepted the amendment and I do not understand at all why the amendment was not accepted this time. Because I can organise an association whose statute will be fine with the provisions of Article 3(2), I will not mention the violent destruction of order, or racial discrimination, or anything else that is not allowed, and then I can call it the Blackshirts' association or the Mein Kampf association. I have met the conditions you wrote in the law, and it is clear that the name of the association is associated with something that is not allowed by civilization. I absolutely don't understand why this amendment was rejected by the government. I ask Mr. Minister, when he shows up in the O.R. after one minute, to sort of answer me why he thinks this amendment shouldn't have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23449	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a message from Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23450	I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here, but I would have answered his remarks if we hadn't kept our attitude to this law. I've got to tell him, professionally and professionally, and in one that I didn't participate in, and then, as I do now, I'd advocate this position that I'm defending, which is a larger number of founders and a larger number of years for founders. I can really defend it professionally, I can prove that we have elaborated this thesis on the Committee as well very collegially. However, as regards this amendment, which I have submitted to Article 18, I believe that this is a technical matter which could be accepted, because we have asked that Article 18 paragraph 1 behind the words "the association may have its own character, logo and other symbols, in accordance with the statute" add the words "and in accordance with this law". The statute of one association does not have to be in accordance with the law, and yet its operation must be brought to an end, everything it represents must be in accordance with the law, because this law clearly determines what must not contain any labelling of the association. I think this is a technical matter, which could be accepted and would make this member of the law more precise and better to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23451	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister has come out, although I have a really serious comment and a serious objection to the way he treats DSS-NS MPs. I don't think that's appropriate. If he continues to communicate with the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia in such a way, we will not deal with this law. So what we're saying here about our amendments are arguments. For the reasons that we have signed here as an explanation of the amendments, we are submitting these amendments and we believe that the text of the law should be changed. By the way, what I still want to say first of all to Mr. Secretary, I hope that somewhere he's looking at this, is that I fully understand his position. He's not the author of this law and he's always pointing out; he's author of Mr. Lonchar, so the law is good. We didn't expect him and this ruling coalition to make a good legal proposal, so we weren't even in doubt that he didn't write it. So, as a signator of something, he can't accept the arguments we're making, and that's why our amendments aren't actually accepted. If Mr. Loncar were here, he would certainly understand, as the author of this law, the arguments we make here, so that this bill would certainly be corrected. Now, using the time of the parliamentary group, I will continue the story of the amendment that we have submitted. Therefore, we have submitted an amendment to amend Article 19 of the attitude 3 which reads: “A statement of accession, i.e. a membership of a minor for up to 14 years of life, is given by his legal representative in accordance with the law, and if it is a minor from 14 years of age, a statement made by a minor with a statement of consent of his legal representative in accordance with the law. “ What did we want to fix? Our view 3. reads this: “The statement of accession, i.e. the association for minors up to 18 years of life, is given by their legal advocates in accordance with the law. “ Since there is a need for enhanced data protection on minors, and I remind you that we have passed the Law on the Protection of Citizens, the Data Protection Act and, as far as I can see, there is also a law on the protection of the rights of the child, what we are saying is not in accordance with some celestial legislation, but with the legislation of this country, which is also a signator of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provides that the state has to take seriously and that it defends children from the abuse of various species. In line with all this, we asked to change the formulation of Article 19(3) in the way we did it. The minister, who is not the author of the law, but merely the signator, answers that we are threatening the rights of minors with this change of law and therefore rejects our amendment. I ask the question, what is this endangering the rights of minors? From what we've put up with, I don't see that we're jeopardizing acquired rights. We're not defending that minors can make associations, we're just asking that they have to have the protection of their parents above all, and legal agents in all this. Please, it's already mentioned here, that we are right to show and practice this country has, which is that I as a parent whose child should go abroad with some other adult face must go to local self-government or in court to give consent, me and my husband; therefore, two adults, parents give consent to grow up, my sister, for example, take her nephew abroad. And you give a child up to 14 years of age and a child aged 14 to 18, who is still a child according to the Convention, you refer to a convention you don't know, and the Convention says that a child is still a child, you give him all possible legal rights, which is so easy to abuse. You give the possibility, say, of a minor to initiate a procedure if the association has made some decision that is not in accordance with the law. Do you believe that a 14-year-old will initiate such a procedure, that he can stand it, that he knows he can stand it? Or must one of the adults do it, someone who knows, because I sign that at least a third of Serbian adults don't know how to initiate that procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23453	The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to article 19. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23454	The President-in-Office, on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, I have submitted an amendment to Article 19(3) that the words "in accordance with the law" should be added to the words "and the rights and duties of a minor represent a parent or guardian until his age". The explanation – the participation of a minor in the work of the body of the association must be represented by his parent in order to have the same personal knowledge of the work of the association where his child is located and to accept all obligations arising from such association. So, as you can see, the NS Parliament Club in several amendments, such as this to Article 19, which follows Article 10, which is essentially extremely important and where we threw a special accent, is trying to fix something that's not right. So, a child at the age of 16 acquires a partial business ability. This is all connected to each other. If fearsome criminal provisions are provided, Serbian citizens should know, parents should hear, who may at times give such an easy or gullible consent and guarantee that their child will act in such a way as to satisfy the legal form of this law, etc., that it is very sensitive when criminal policies occur. Again, one founder is from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and two have no residence in the Republic of Serbia. In this situation, the responsible person, of the three founders, when two go away, will be the parent. That's why this parent has to be precisely... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And clearly it says what his rights and obligations are in situations where he represents his underage child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23455	National MP Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23456	On Article 20, item 1. The NS Parliament Club has submitted an amendment to replace the words "basic" with the word "trade". The reasons – in the case of a dispute between the members of the company, the legal jurisdiction of the trade court has been established. Analytical interpretation should also determine the jurisdiction of trade courts here, especially given the fact that the majority of the association will also carry out economic activities. For this reason, it is more logical to deal with this problem in trade, not in basic courts. It is unacceptable, Madam Chairman, because the minister is not and I have no one to address, therefore, Mr. Minister, that in a situation where commercial offences are mentioned in criminal provisions, the basic courts will be responsible for the conduct of disputes. In such a situation, trade courts must be competent, because we punish associations. We can't lead disputes before basic courts in a situation where we have a business offense. I can't accept that this is the kind of thing that the proposer could have in mind. I won't even look at the argument, the right to tell you, because these arguments are so dry that they're just being irritated, but the main thing is that in commercial crimes, a trade court appears as a court of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23457	The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Nikola Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23458	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I regret earlier that the minister is not in the O.R. because there is an impression that the minister is much more interested in leading the controversy and in attacking the MPs of the opposition than in discussing the very essence of this legislative proposal. I can understand that Mr. Minister is nostalgic for the legal proposals made by representatives of the Democratic Party of Serbia, because when the Democratic Party of Serbia led the government, Serbia was moving forward. As regards the amendment itself to Article 20, which was submitted by the Democratic Party of Serbia, it provides that, in addition to the members of the association and other citizens themselves, they may initiate a procedure to determine the futility of the association's decision unless it complies with the general act of association or the futility of the general act itself unless it complies with the law. Here, under the notion of the citizens of the DSS, is primarily about parents, guardians of minors, as well as their teachers, since minors can set up associations of citizens. Taking into account the fact that underage persons are not allowed, for example, to vote in general elections, it is shown that society considers that they do not possess a full degree of maturity to decide on their own. Thus certain decisions of the association may also be contrary to the interests of the child defined by the general act of the association, or e.g. The law should therefore allow parents, guardians, teachers to respond in this regard. Is it possible that the government expects the children to act on their own and act on their own? I don't think that's very likely. I appeal to Mr. Minister, when he returns to the hall, to accept this amendment to the Democratic Party of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23459	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23460	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21. The proposal of the Association Law, which refers to the management of the association, to place the words "chosen" and add the words "delegated or authorised". If we leave only the word "chosen", it means inevitably only elections for the management of the association. Proposed terms, i.e. ‘delegated or authorised’ means the possibility to designate representatives of members in the bodies of the association. In this way it may be determined by the statute or by some other act that the representative of the association in which the association is associated shall be the chairman of the association. Or, the president of the association can appoint an executive body of the association, which does not include the election itself. I'm sorry, too, that the minister isn't here, I don't know why he comes out every half hour for half an hour, I think it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure or whatever the reason. I think this amendment should be accepted because it gives much broader opportunities to manage associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23461	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22 of the Law on the Association of Citizens who regulate the jurisdiction of the Assembly. I felt, by submitting this amendment, that I would succeed in one technical way, in a better, more precise way to say what was in the congregation's jurisdiction, so, among other things, I predicted that the assembly, in addition to the adoption and amendments to the statutes, would elect and resolve members of the other bodies of the association. For me, however, it is a very interesting explanation, which is one of the words of the government that does not accept the amendment, says: “In particular, NGOs should not seek permission from public authorities to amend their internal structure and rules. “ I conclude here that the government is afraid of NGOs. If that's the case, I'll prove through a few quotes a statement from women led by some NGOs. I must say, the Serbian Radical Party expected much more from the Association Act. The largest number of differences between the Government, as the legislator of this law, and the SRS are broken in Article 10. It is in a good way or, if you will, for the perfect good, or, if you want to be more specific, in a European good way explained by MP Zoran Krasic. We thought this law would define some of the activities of the state authorities that would prevent such statements. A non-governmental organisation, the Humanitarian Law Fund, President Natasa Kandic, attended the declaration of an independent state of Kosovo and Metohija, as a personal guest of Hashim Thaci and supported the songs of Mesic, the Ustasha song, but before that he decorated her with Ordena Katarina Zrinska. The next NGO, the Helsinki Committee, President Sonja Biserko, says: "Serbia must face the loss of Kosovo. Vojvodina voluntarily entered Serbia and then Yugoslavia. She," she thinks of Vojvodina, "has a lot of right to state what position she wants. "Then, "the international community should," she also states, "to support BiH's suit against Serbia for genocide. It is one of the conditions for proper interpretation of wars in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. “ We expected this law to end these NGOs, that is, these associations. It's hard to control about 30,000 associations, each tenth association does about that kind of business that intertwines with political ideas. The main problem is that NGOs do not go to the polls and cannot be punished by the electoral body by failing in the elections, and many are deciding and trassing the policies to be conducted in Serbia. That it is a policy that benefits Serbian citizens, not even by misery, however, it is an open breaking of Serbia's state. I don't think this law, as proposed, should be adopted and adopted at all. I do not regret that the minister is not here, because he does not want to hear what is the essence of the amendments proposed by the MPs of the SRS anyway. We don't lose anything, whether he sits there or not, but that only speaks of a representative of the government, or the government as a whole, respecting elected MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23463	The remaining time for the SRS Parliamentary Group is 41 minutes. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23464	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 23, where the second position in the bill states that only a business capable natural person who has residence or residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia can be designated as representatives of the association. We have submitted an amendment adding after the words "have" the words "nationality of the Republic of Serbia and". In other words, we think it is mandatory for the representative of the association to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I'll explain why right away. We don't have any mistrust with foreign citizens, but, you'll allow, a representative of the association may come into conflict with our law on some matter, and that, since he's a foreign citizen, he won't be available to our law enforcement authorities. For this reason, we believe that the representative of the association registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia should be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. We have no objection to foreign citizens being members of the association, may even be some prominent members of the association, but the representative of the association, therefore, the person representing the association before the state authorities, in our deep confidence, would have to be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I must say that neither for this amendment nor for any other DSS amendments, I do not understand at all why it was rejected, because we think it corrects some inaccuracies in the text of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23465	National MP Boris Aleksic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23466	You've made this bill of yours quite inconclusively foresaw the bodies of the association. These authorities are a legal representative and a three - member congregation. It's really unacceptable for us because it's very unserious. If an association wants to do serious business, then there's got to be more people and more organs. A colleague, Boris Aleksic, submitted an amendment, which reads: "The organizations of the association are the assembly, the representative of the association, the board of directors and the board of directors". We think this amendment is more acceptable, that this arrangement is more acceptable. However, we are trying to make some serious associations, which will deal with serious business and which deal with serious business, not to build a resort on the land of the state of Serbia from certain associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23467	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't go into it who wrote the bill, but the fact is that the bill in a number of provisions is inconclusive and certain provisions are contradictory to each other. First of all, Mr. Minister, it's impossible for the Citizens' Association to establish a legal face. It's against the very essence of the law. You have even used an amazing syntagma here in the middle with Mr. Velimir Ilic – underage physical and legal face. A legal person can't be a minor. You're a good lawyer. It was probably a little bit of a bit of a political struggle for you. What's really wrong with the bill, among other things, is that you put something in article 25 that shouldn't be in the law. Since 2002, if I'm not mistaken, from various DOS ministers we've been hearing about so-called. deregulation, that there are fewer regulations in Serbia than there are now; here, and today, these days on RTS you are announcing some kind of cutting of rules, and then in article 25 you write something that is absolutely not legal matter. As for the legislator, how will the association compensate for the damage done to him by the members of the association? It's the matter of the statute. So this should be an absolute autonomous right of association, to provide for a way to regulate damage compensation. In addition, you said that, of course, you quoted the relevant constitutional norm, forbidden secret and paramilitary associations – that's true, that's how it should be – and then in article 4, you write that the registration of the association is voluntary. That's how you legalize the secret association. No secret associations are allowed, and the association can only assess whether it will be registered or not. A non-registered association is classified and it is forbidden under the Constitution. These secret associations ask one question – given that the Constitution and this bill prohibit the establishment of secret associations, what will happen to the ministers for whom it is public secret that they are massa? I can namely, if you insist, list people, members of the Serbian government, for whom it is a public secret that they are members of certain Masonic lodges. In the Masonic lodges there is a strict hierarchy and for those who are a member of the Masonic Lodge there are neither the Constitution nor the laws, but, above all, the rules of the Masany. History has shown that the Masons are not loyal to their states, their legal order, but above all to their Masonic organization. So, what about the ministers who are members of the masseuses, in light of constitutional norms and legal norms that secret associations are forbidden? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23469	The time available to the MP's group is 40 minutes. The People's MP, Balint Pastor, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23470	Madam Chairman, I would like to use the time of the parliamentary group. Now I'm going to say everything the SVM has to say in the discussion in detail and we're not going to answer again. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we didn't answer when it was a principle debate, because in November we said everything about this bill. In December, unfortunately, this proposal was withdrawn, but there is no need to repeat everything we have said. Then we said that basically this law is good, that it is high time for Serbia to get a modern law that regulates the work of the Association of Citizens. Serbia's governments have had an obligation to pass this law since 2000, but the law, unfortunately, has not been passed so far. I hope it'll be delivered in a few days. Simply, citizens' associations cannot work within the frameworks defined in 1982, when in the Republic of Serbia, then the SFRY, a completely different political and social system was in place. That's why we support the passing of this law. This bill is really the same one that was in the procedure in November last year. One significant difference has been made, which concerns the competent authority which manages the register of the association of citizens. Of course, there are also counterarguments whether it should be the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government or the Agency for Economic Registers. I see you've decided to be the Agency for Business Registers. We can accept that, and we'll see how it works in practice. As for our amendments, I said in November that the SVM had organised a public debate a year ago within the Hungarian national community. We have hundreds of associations of citizens whose founders are duchy Hungarians and we wanted to hear their opinions and their suggestions. We have formulated these proposals in the form of amendments. And then we had and now we have seven amendments. You, unfortunately, if we look at this book, the government's opinion, you haven't formally accepted any of our amendments, but that's not true. The real truth is that you have put certain solutions that we proposed in November last year into this text. You didn't do it the way we suggested, but in some other way, but basically certain solutions we proposed a few months ago are now part of the bill that came into the procedure of the National Assembly. I'd rather not talk about these amendments, the more important parts of the bill are now, I'd just like to stay with one amendment. We have submitted that amendment to Article 36. Proposal for a law on associations. This is where you partially accepted our remarks. It's just that, in our opinion, associations shouldn't pay inheritance and gift taxes. You amended this article compared to the version of the draft law of November last year and you wrote that natural and legal persons making contributions and gifts to associations may be exempt from the relevant tax obligations, in accordance with the law introducing the relevant public income. This is a step forward in relation to solutions from previous versions of the Association Law. We can consider that you have partly accepted our way of thinking, and that is certainly commendable, but we still feel that this should be regulated in a way that associations are necessarily exempt from paying inheritance and gift taxes. We do not consider it a good solution to the possibility of being released from paying these taxes. I saw in your explanation that you wrote that this is the matter of other laws and that you couldn't technically write that these associations were necessarily exempt from paying taxes on inheritance and gift because it's a matter of tax and some other laws. That, Mr. Minister, is simply not true. We still feel that we should accept this amendment. Why do I say it's not true? It is not true, and we have also written this in the light of our amendment, which, for example, is the current Law on Delegations, Funds and Foundations in Article 16 has the same solution that we have foreseen for the Association of Citizens. Tax laws do not provide for this exemption from paying taxes on borrowings, funds and foundations, but are prescribed by the Law on Indemnities, Funds and Foundations. We simply don't see the logical difference between the solutions of the Association Act and this other law; why can something be prescribed by the Law on Delegations and cannot be prescribed for associations of the Law on Associations? Now you might be able to say that the Law of Delegation was passed, it seems to me, in 1989, that it could, and now it can't, but that wouldn't be true either, Mr. Minister, because this same solution is foreseen in the draft law on borrowings, funds and foundations. It's really a step forward that you, accepting our way of thinking, have left that possibility of tax exemption for associations, but we still feel that this should be prescribed as a commitment and thus be regulated unequivocally. As far as the other amendments are concerned, it is very important that the associations of citizens whose founders are members of national minorities are allowed to be registered in the register and in the languages of those national minorities. That's where you accepted the LDP amendment, and that's certainly good. Of course, we could still have this dispute over the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina. I wouldn't want to get into that problem any more. You have given very skillfully the opportunity of Minister Malovic of the Democratic Party to deal with the problem of developing a law on the transfer of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina and you are not in charge, as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, you have nothing to do with the adoption of the law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina, so I would not want to burden you with this. But since I have put forward this definitive position of the Alliance of Dukes Hungarians that we will vote in favour of the Association Law, I would still like to ask you one question about the administrative districts of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, I know it's not a subject, but I hope you'll let me ask you that question. By the time I've spared you the Dukes, at least we can talk about the administrative environments. Today, there have been some topics that have absolutely nothing to do with the Proposal for Association Law. This question, believe me, has to do with associations and other life issues in the Republic of Serbia. More than once in the National Assembly, we had controversy about the boundaries of administrative districts. You know very well that this problem exists, first of all, in the north of the Duke and in Sandzak. The problem arose nearly 20 years ago because the Law on the Selection of MPs at the time was in force, which envisioned a majority way of electing MPs. It was simply necessary for the minority Corps to be divided into several parts so that members of the national minorities organised into parties would have as little chance of sending a MP to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the solution survived after 2000 and problems arose. You know very well that the municipalities of Ada, Kanjiz and Senta are located in Bačka, geographically, but these three municipalities are, unfortunately, legally in the Northobanat County. The headquarters of the Northobanat County is Kikinda. I hope, Mr. Minister, that you agree with me that a local, citizen of Kanjiza, Sainte or Ade, that I am not talking about villages that are ten miles away from Subotica, has anything to do with Kickinda in that sense... That's not a national question. What I'm talking about is not only in the interest of the duchy Hungarians who have a residence in the territory of these suppressed municipalities, but it is in the interest of all citizens living in Kanjiza, Adi and Senti, regardless of their nationality, because it is an elementary, healthy logic. It's simple, when Tisa hasn't changed her course, then she doesn't have to do it with legal regulations. When there's a municipality in Backo, it's supposed to belong to some Buck County, not some Banatian county. We haven't been able to fight for the changes in the borders of these administrative districts in the past few years, not when we were in opposition, not even now that we're part of the ruling majority. We do not understand why this situation cannot be changed when it is not necessary to pass a law in the National Assembly. This is resolved by a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on administrative districts. To make the problem even bigger, these administrative districts and these administrative districts, which are absolutely against every human logic, are now being passed on to other spheres of life. I will only mention the proposal for a law on regional development. When we had that in the National Assembly, June 9th, Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, Deputy Prime Minister, I asked how he looked at this question, and I'll tell you why. Here, I'll quote you a sentence in the explanation of the Regional Development Act. Of course, I know that the reasoning of the law is not a source of law, but from this reasoning of the law, we can see how the Government of the Republic of Serbia is thinking. On page 5 of the proposal for a law on regional development, I quote: "One or more areas are projected to form a region. The authorities will respect the existing division of administrative districts and will not share the districts. “ This means that these districts and these borders of the administrative districts, which were brought beyond any normal human logic nearly 20 years ago, are now being transferred to these statistical regions. And we're also going to have to go from these, absolutely antilogical and anti-normal, things to some developmental projects. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia should deal with this issue, to sit down, to agree. You ask, we have these MPs from Ada, from Kanjiza, ask them if they approve of this condition that they belong to the North American County when they are only 25 or 30 kilometers away from Subotica and when they are bound, in every respect, to Subotica, regardless of their nationality. Now I'm going to tell you why I mentioned this law on regional development and Mr Dinkic. In response to this question last week, Mr Dinkic said it was in the department of state administration and local self-government's jurisdiction. As Deputy Prime Minister, he probably knows whose jurisdiction this is, and that's why I took advantage of this possibility that you're in the National Assembly today. We have already discussed this matter many times in both the congregation and outside the congregation. Please, Mr. Minister, let us handle this. A few weeks ago, we had a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Chambers of Commerce in the Assembly. And in the chambers of commerce, this illogical structure of administrative districts has existed since 2000. Our amendment has been accepted, so companies from the territory of the municipalities of Ada, Kanjiz and Senta have been transferred to Bačka, where they belong, and they belong to the regional Chamber of Commerce in Subotica. It's settled for companies. Please, Mr. Minister, let's settle this for the people, that's even more important. If we solve this, then we will certainly do good for the inhabitants of these suppressed municipalities, regardless of nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23471	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banović and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23472	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, you are not the author, but you are the signator of the law, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to Article 25 of this law, deeming it necessary, in addition to these two positions, which relate to the liability of members of the association's body, which they are applying to the association, to provide for another possibility, namely damage to state authorities, units of local self-government. Therefore, we felt that it was necessary to add paragraph 3 here, which should read: “The procedure for compensation of damages caused by a member of the association to state bodies or units and institutions of local self-government, by carrying out activities for the purposes of the association, shall be initiated by the municipal public prosecutor immediately after the damage has been done. “ The existing attitude 3 becomes attitude 4. Why did we suggest that this attitude be entered? It is clear that the legislator saw that it was necessary to provide for the possibility of liability for the damage to members of the association body and members of the association. It is very important to say that there are such activities that can contribute to harm not only the association, but that members of the association do harm both the state itself and state institutions, local self-government units and local self-government institutions. It is also necessary to predict that possibility by this law. We all had the opportunity to be familiar with a scandal that then broke out in the fall of 2004, when great damage was done to the state, by some NGOs publishing a very compromising material about how in institutions that serve the care and housing of children... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... I'm going to use group time, with various forms of disability and high disability, these children are being placed there, tortured, tied up, and everything else. I simply have to remind you, if you are not close to remembering how it was then, and this is October 2004, the state of Serbia took rather big and big steps towards the EU – this is the moment when we, I like to remind the minister, since there is obviously a problem to remember that period, when Vojislav Kostunica led his first government, in which you were not, you were an opposition – and what damage the social system of Serbia and the state of Serbia had caused this affair. At that time, the authorities that had to make sure that the actors of this penalty affair had simply not announced themselves in any way and there was no effect on all of this, except that damage that was done to the state. In fact, our amendment stressed this: "right after the damage done", precisely for these reasons, because we have the impression that the public prosecutor's office is dealing with such affairs and the damages that the state seems to be dealing with a rather high degree of tolerance, i.e. One day, they might start some kind of procedure, and maybe they won't. That's why I think it's very important to consider it, precisely because these days and all these years since 1995 we've been in a situation to see that, occasionally, the state and state authorities, and I come from Valjev, and even the locale, do uninterrupted damage to some of the information, which is half true, partly true or completely untrue, by some organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23473	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23474	Honourable MPs, honourable ministers, the presidency, at the beginning thank you, Mr. Minister, for the accepted second amendment, of the two that we have. There are several reasons why I think the Ministry should accept this amendment and I don't see any why it hasn't accepted it. It's a good thing we have a chance to talk now. We talked about this amendment in principle, but then you weren't in the O.R. and we weren't able to discuss why this amendment wasn't accepted. At first, I want to say that we have taken this amendment from a group of NGOs. "Citizen's Initiatives", the FEM Association agreed with the amendment, as well as with the one you accepted; they agreed, more or less, with all the NGOs we talked to. Article 26 of this proposal provides for an association register to be run by the Agency for Economic Registers. We ask our amendment to keep that register in your ministry. In our opinion, this solution found in the bill, that the register of the association is run by the Agency for Economic Registers, is unconstitutional, regardless of the answer you gave. I'll try to explain it and, right away, I'll use the time of the parliamentary group. In Article 55. The constitution, which guarantees freedom of association, 1st position, defines associations according to its objective: political, trade union and other associations, which includes a group of citizens. Article 2 defines that the register of these associations is run by a state body. Article 1 defines political, trade union and other associations, and closer organisation is defined by a special law. As we know, in both cases, when it comes to the Law on Political Parties and the Law on Union Organization, the register of these associations is run by the competent ministries. For this reason, we do not understand why the register of the Association of Citizens is not also run by the Ministry. On the other hand, you said the Agency for Business Registers runs... I'll quote Article 4. The Law on the Agency for Economic Registers, which says the Government cannot direct the work of a public agency or coordinate it with the work of the Authority. This is directly contrary to the provisions of Article 55. Serbia's constitution, which says the register is run by a state body, or state administration. In our opinion and in the opinion of these NGOs we have consulted, it is a direct anti-constitutional provision. If that's not enough reason either, I'll try to give one far more important, which is a political reason. The state has taken the obligation before the Council of Europe and its citizens to protect human rights and freedom of association. The state's conduct of that freedom cannot trust someone with no control over it. That's the point. Therefore, this Regulation is contained in the Constitution. The state must be guaranteed, i.e. The ministry, that there will be freedom of association and cannot transfer its responsibility to someone else. Also, in Article 18. The constitution states that human and minority rights guaranteed by the Constitution are directly applicable and that the law must in no way affect the essence of guaranteed law. Let me give you two examples of how this provision directly affects the essence of guaranteed law. First, there is no training of the Business Registers Agency to do this job. In keeping with this register, international legal standards on the protection of the freedom of association, which are defined by the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, as well as the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, must be protected or respected. The Agency for Business Registers, since these rules are not applied to companies, is simply not trained and does not know, nor has their operation had anything to do with these two conventions, which tells us that now at the Agency for Economic Registers there will be employment of new people, who are experts in these areas. Given that they are not presently present, their absence directly affects the essence of guaranteed law, i.e. indirectly contests those guaranteed rights. The second example is much more drastic. I also cited him in the principle debate. It's taxes. It's a fundamental difference from the attitude of the Citizens' Association. At this point, your ministry has the so-called "registration" fee. an administrative fee, moving around 1,500 dinars. Under this law, if the Agency for Business Registers is to run this register, every association of citizens that exists at this time, according to our assessment, will be required to spend at least 30,000 to 40,000 dinars in the short term, since it is required under the law to adapt its existence to this law. It may not seem like much, but, believe me, for some goal that isn't determined is very much. That money, or asking for that money from the Citizens' Association, is the second principle on which guaranteed freedoms of association are violated. Perhaps some of them will give up their work because they do not have 30,000-40,000 dinars or 400-500 euros. Why is that? Because your ministry does not charge many things that the Agency for Business Registers collects, such as: registration fee (from 2,500 to 10,200 dinars), change of data (9,600 dinars), registration of other data (5,100 dinars), issue of copies (1,600 dinars), and all that, administrative tax of 1,700 dinars. Since this law provides for citizens' associations to adapt to this law within a certain period of time, all associations of citizens will have to allocate these funds, and we will see at the end of the process how many of them were able to single out these funds that, I repeat, are not small. Finally, if we look at the parallel right, if we look at the member states of the Council of Europe, we have failed to find a single member of the Council of Europe in which the register is conducted in a similar way. As far as we've been able to investigate, it's mostly a court, a competent ministry or some government body, somewhere even on a local level. This example has not been taken over from some comparative practice. As for your argument for refusing the amendment, I'd like to set out a few things or the thesis that you listed. First of all, I really don't believe that you wrote this, it's an incredible thesis – given that the law allows the association to directly, in order to achieve the constitutional objectives, perform an economic or other activity to obtain profits, it is logical that the register is run by the Agency for Economic Registers. It is that the law predicts, but it is the secondary activity of each association. If someone is founded to make a profit, it is a company and therefore there is an Agency for Economic Registers. And I also don't understand this part -- how the register of economic operators is run by the Agency for Business Registers, as a trusted business, that's proof that we trust this business. It's not the Agency's confidential job. It's the essence of its existence, to run a register of economic operators. Trusted business, maybe it's some kind of legal formulation, but that's the essence of the agency's existence. If we wouldn't be longer, I'd like to hear your answer, we still have time. Right now, on one assembly committee, as regards these savings you also mention, administrative strategies, regulatory reforms, etc., you may not have heard, but let me draw your attention to one of the oldest associations of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. It's so-called. SOS phone for women and children victims of violence, domestic violence. They were up until this year so-so... It's about a bunch of volunteers providing help to every kind by answering the phone, but also by receiving parties. Their work was not compromised, even in the 1990 ’ s, there was an opportunity to help them. They had paid rooms, phones, and they were themselves, since it was mostly women, volunteers, or volunteers. Now, for the first time in history, even though their expenses are foreseen by the budget, they don't get the money and their activity is seriously compromised. Let me take this opportunity and ask for your influence to get rid of this thing, because the word is... It doesn't matter that they are one of the oldest associations of citizens, but it is certainly one of the most useful associations that exist. Please answer my previous question, I just took the opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23475	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23476	Let me start at the end – we will see what it is and whether there is an opportunity to help. As far as this solution is concerned with the Agency for Economic Registers, it is, in principle, the biggest change in law for all these years. It was a proposal by the Council for Regulatory Reform, headed by Deputy Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic. I initially had a negative view of this proposal, but later I thought a lot about the whole idea and I have to admit that I liked the idea. I do not think that it is unconstitutional and illegal, because it is a matter of trusting public authority, which is regulated by the Constitution in Article 137, where, among other things, it explicitly states that public authorities can be entrusted and entities are listed, including individuals, but, let's say, regulatory bodies and so on. I don't think the problem with trusting public authority is that we have a problem with constitutionality. If we did, we just wouldn't suggest this. I'll tell you what I think about this, why I finally leaned on this solution. The Agency for Business Registers has its primary task, keeping a register of economic operators, however, in the Commercial Registers Agency Act, it is envisaged that it can carry out other tasks, in accordance with the law, which has opened the possibility for us to strengthen one such agency and make it specialised in the management of various types of registers. What do you get? I think that, in terms of perspective, one agency can be given a service to manage registers to various state authorities, and various types of registers. Let's just say, I think now in the draft of the law on sports, it's supposed to be that the register of sports organisations is also run by the Agency for Business Registers. The fact is that there is diversity between companies and citizens' associations, but certain jobs are identical, only this service keeping register is quite a close matter. They have technical equipment. We, as a ministry now, as we take 13,000 associations from the MUP, would have to increase our capacity, both human and technical, to buy some computers or software already owned by the Agency for Business Registers. I'm saying, although I was originally against it, later on this seemed like a good idea, which can contribute to efficiency and economics, and which can really go towards empowering that agency that, in my opinion, has the capacity to lead more than it does now. How did we come by that belief? We've been talking to the Agency for almost two months. We have literally presented to them all the problems from our practice so far that I can face in the management of this business. They didn't know what it looked like either, initially they thought it was a much simpler and easier job, but through these conversations we came to the conclusion that they were capable, ready to take over the job, and that we, by bringing in sublegal acts and by controlling that work (I'm talking about keeping a register), we can establish proper control. There is no situation for the Agency to behave differently in any particular case than it would have been for the Ministry to conduct the same procedure. As for the fact that it's a entrusted business of the state administration, it's a entrusted business of the state administration. If any problem arises, according to the State Administration Act, we can take over this entrusted business of the state administration. At the very least, we're a second-degree body and we're deciding on all the complaints that would arise in this process. I really think this could be the beginning of the creation of an agency that will serve to keep registers for many state authorities and that it can be efficient and cheap. I just don't see any negatives in that whole story. I repeat, for the Ministry alone this job would require additional funding, there is no dilemma: money, employment and additional resources. You mentioned doing business. I don't know if it's literally written like that, but the bottom line is that – it's just one little plus in favour of this solution – that the parent number will be received in the future by the Agency for Economic Registers when they want to deal with economic activity. I'm saying, it's one small plus in favour of keeping a register in that agency. Anyway, believe me, we've been thinking a lot about this. I had a negative attitude first. They convinced me they were capable of running this business. I would never let them run the business if I had any doubt that they'd run the business worse than the Ministry and we would. I hope time and practice won't deny me. The other important thing you also mentioned is the taxi question. When this law was, it was also the Tax Act, and then in the Tax Act we adopted in parliament that the re-registration would not be paid tax, so we resolved the tax issue. It would be insane if I asked the association to pay a fee and we didn't think to do it. As far as the fee is concerned, which you have well noticed now that there is, as a potential burden, a decision on this is made by the government. I can tell you right away that the Ministry's position will be that the re-registration fee will not be paid, because, in the end of the day, this agency will be able to carry out the procedure from other sources of funding, and later, normally, it will take compensation for its work, as we have taken into account the fees. I know the new solution is... The truth is everything you've said in your explanation about parallel practice. My opinion is that this can still be a great solution, and we have an instrument for God's sake; if something goes wrong, we have an instrument to take it back to the Ministry and we're in charge of this business in the future, because I'm saying, it's a trusted job of the state administration that the Ministry has control over. As for your first amendment, I can thank you, because the amendment is really good. Although the law has been in public debate for so long and has appeared here so many times, there is still something that can be fixed, which is just saying about how writing the law isn't that simple a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23477	Before I give the right to a replica of Parliamentarian Ivan Andric, I am informing the MPs that a part of today's session, in the time from 13.40 to 14.00 hours, from the gallery of our large hall of the House of National Assembly, will be followed by representatives of young people from the municipality, the city, after visiting the small hall, the library and the salon of Prince Pavalić, and in your name and on behalf of the National Assembly, I welcome Jelena Jerkovic, Jelena Pavniski, Maja Kovačić, Milica Lekić, Petar Topalović, Milutin Lekic, Svetimira Gajic and Danil Bojic. Welcome to the National Assembly! He has a word, right to replication, MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23478	You didn't convince me, Mr. Secretary. If you've agreed with me at all, there's probably another reason that's not for this debate. Let me guess, if the chairman of this regulatory commission, Mladjan Dinkic, proposed to the Agency, in which he has the greatest influence, therefore, wanted to expand his influence. What are the reasons for such a desire time will show, it's not something we can talk about. Let me just have a few more things to tell you. So it's not just a problem in a taxi, because it's a small part, it's 1,700 dinars, the problem is in the other thirty or forty thousand for various items that will have to pay, so not only in the re-registration, so it depends on how the Agency treats it. As you said, the government is making so it's up to the government to decide. As regards this argument on efficiency and economics, even in this reasoning of refusal, it mentions a reduction in administrative costs of business, acceleration, etc. It's really unacceptable as an explanation, but at least let us not accept that freedom. So, your ministry is already running that register, there are people who run that register. The register should be extended further, and now it will be run by some agency, which you, because you have been persuaded by the Deputy Prime Minister, believe it will do well. Believe the costs will be higher, whatever we're talking about here, because there's a new department opening up there. I only mentioned one part. This register is not a thing like sports societies or companies, it's a matter of freedom of association. Allow me once again, you have not responded to this argument which is essentially political. The whole idea of these provisions in the Council of Europe, as I'm sure you well know, is that the state guarantees the achievement of these human rights such as freedom of association. That is why we have submitted this amendment and we insist somewhat, because the state must be guaranteed it. This agency is independent of government work. Of course you have influence over these fees, sizes etc., but she is independent, she is not appointed by the government. So, in a certain way, you give up your responsibilities, which, in our opinion, was not allowed, especially because while you were a minister and since 2000, there have been no complaints about the work of the ministry, as regards the register of associations. There were complaints about the lack of law, of various other things, but it was one of the few things that worked on the federal level, later on the republic, even in the MUP. I haven't heard that anyone's been denied a registration application since 2000, or that there's any problem. There are clear reasons why something that worked well is being transferred. That'll show time. Let me finally ask you to allow all people who would like to join in for who knows what reasons you don't have to pay these fees that are certainly such that they will answer them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23479	People's MP, replica time has been used. Thank you. The Word has a National MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23480	I'm reporting for word after amendment. I would ban government representatives from thinking about a problem for two months, because I am absolutely sure they can't find a solution, and the evidence is what a government official just said. What's this about? It's about one human right. It's something that's guaranteed, protected, which by its nature is not absolutely but relatively. The state is a guarantee, state authorities. What organs? Those who exercise state power. Authorities implementing the state government are primarily the authorities of the state administration, the ministry. The business of keeping a register and enrolment, a team before it comes to one freedom that does not require prior consent or permission, but a simple registration, and only a minimum state intervenes when it comes to the way of achieving and using some freedom, implies that the state is guaranteed for that freedom. The state ends this business with its authority. These registries, enrolments are not similar to that of public authorities because they are essential business of state authorities. It's not some side business. In this area, these are the most important jobs done by the state, in terms of this freedom, such as the state body, the ministry, as a first-degree body in some administrative matter, to transfer the first degree to another place because it is a state government. One more thing. With the Agency for Economic Registers, a second-degree body is a court. You can't make a second-degree body become a ministry now. You have to run the register, and it's hard for you because you're going to have 20, 30, 40, 50,000 associations, it doesn't matter. It's complicated for you. You don't want to do that job. If you have found the reformer of the state administration in Mladjan Dinkic, then you understand – where the money is, so is he. He found a formula to solve the problem in no time. This business of keeping a register and enrolment in the register cannot be passed on to anyone. The constitution forbids it to be transferred. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the Declaration of Human Rights, prohibits it because the state is guaranteed. You can't transfer that job, like you can't transfer some of the things in the government's jurisdiction, from the ministry's jurisdiction, under the Constitution, to transfer it to other authorities. What kind of public authority is that? This isn't about public authority, I have to tell you, because it's about the government's business and the state is guaranteed. Tomorrow, if there's a dispute in front of the European Court of Human Rights... Because as far as the Association Act is concerned, we had as a nation and as a state the need to regulate it, but in the way you suggest it, we only had this obligation the moment we entered the Council of Europe, which was during the emergency situation of 2003. If a problem arises before the European Court of Human Rights, the first flaw... You will see, and those who observe you will object to this. The state is guaranteed, with all its attributes the strongest authority. It's hard for someone in the ministry to run a register with 20,000-30,000 legal entities because you've brought associations down to legal persons. Now let's transfer to the Business Registers Agency. Go on, hard, from me to another. Like, they're trained, they know. The enrolment procedure differs. It differs when a company is entered. This thing about signing up for the citizens' association, it's a simple recording, that's what I have to tell you. Another thing, Andric said nicely – political parties, trade unions, citizens' associations are in the same rank. You can't at political parties tell the ministry, and at the Citizens' Association, the Agency for Business Registers, because it's from the same Corps. It's just someone trying to pull it out, so they say -- this is union because of some interest, this is political because of other interests, this is sporting because of some interests, this is because of the pets, it's some fifth interest. But they're all in the same rank. It's about freedom of association. It suffers certain restrictions, under certain conditions, which are allowed for a democratic society and which are necessary at a certain point, but not to question the essence of the right itself and the freedom itself. And you want to get rid of the job because it's going to be 20,000-30 thousand entities, you don't want to deal with it, you want to transfer it to the Agency for Business Registers, and you chose a genius for money, he figured out how it would end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23481	The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23482	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the direct consequence of the amendments that we have submitted to Article 23. Since there was no Mr. Minister in the O.R. then, just to remind me that it is an amendment insisting that the representative must be a citizen of Serbia. They're repeating part of the argument I gave back then. We have nothing against foreign citizens, however, the representative of the association, by logic of things, can in some situations come into conflict with our laws and then it is instructed that it is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, not a foreign citizen, who is no longer available, in some situations, to our authorities. In addition, it is a matter of registering associations that are valid in the Republic of Serbia, so it is logical that the representative of the association should be a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. In Article 28, we deleted the words "number of travel documents", etc., as regards the case when the representative is a foreign citizen. Maybe it's interesting for the minister to tell us why he didn't accept ours, but I think he's gone too far, Mr. Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23483	The 28th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23484	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, are members of 28th to register and refer to the content of the register itself. There are a number of things – the name and the short name of the association, headquarters and address of the association are entered in the register, etc. My amendment is, in fact, a desire for this member to expand. In Article 28 following Article 1, paragraph 2 is added: ‘The Association shall have an obligation to update the registered membership once a year and to submit a register of changes to the data relating to the erasure and registration of new members. “ The validity of the decisions of the association assembly can only be established if the association regularly registers the removal and enrollment of new members in the register. It is therefore necessary for such records to exist in the register to be updated at least once a year in the period when it is the obligation of the association to maintain the annual assembly. “ Of course, the fact that there may be no obligation for the registry to keep that record. The question is, what did Mr. Krasic say, who should actually run the register? It is not the same when a company is registered and the association is registered. The Ministry found a good way, a way to get out of the registration story. But we cannot observe the laws so that they will absolutely write everything; the laws are passed and changed to make things better. There will be more associations, a large number of associations. I'm afraid of the chaos that will arise in associations for all reasons, not to repeat, which we spoke of at the beginning, from Article 10 through criminal provisions, when some people who are not informed are involved in an association and when they see that there is one quite large criminal liability. Believe me, Minister, there will be frequent election assemblies, there will be arrivals, departures, etc. If the association has no obligation to register properly with the competent national authority, there will be major problems, you will be in a situation where there are up to five or six people who will change at the head of these associations in the course of the year, which is certainly not an interest of the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23485	The time available to the NS Parliamentary Group is five minutes and thirty seconds. Before we set a break for today, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Article 85 paragraph 5, that we will be working today after 18 hours – we will continue the discussion in detail on the agenda at that point. A notification sent by RTS Secretary General Stanislav Veljkovic to Mr Veljak Odalovic, Secretary-General of the Serbian Parliament, saying that RTS informs us that on Thursday, 18 June 2009, due to previous programme obligations to transfer water polo matches between Serbia and the United States, it will not be able to monitor the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in a direct transfer to the Second Programme of RTS. So, by 18 hours today, we're on a direct transmission. Also, on Friday, June 19th 2009, as of 1750 hours, due to the transfer of a football match between Serbia and Belarus to the European RTS Championship will not be able to monitor the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in a direct transfer to the 2nd RTS programme. The footage of the Serbian Parliament's session will be broadcast depending on the length and possibility of fitting into the established programme scheme. Thank you. We're finishing work for this afternoon. I'm setting a break. The paper continues in the afternoon at 15.00 hours of discussion in particular, following an amendment to article 29, which was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon debate in detail. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The Word has a People's MP Dragan Acimovic
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have tabled an amendment to the draft law on associations. In Article 29(2), the word ‘Minister’ is replaced by ‘Ministership’. The Serbian Radical Party is critical of this law because it allows many NGOs involved in the spying and breaking of the Serbian state, as well as religious sects that destroy traditional religious communities, deny and respect them in all possible ways. This law, contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, is discriminatory against a huge number of Serbian citizens. We believe that this law has given the Minister too much authority and authority, which can easily be misused. We believe this law is made for the citizens of Serbia. The Ministry is the state body implementing this legal project, not the minister as an individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23488	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government has not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 29(4), as well as my predecessor. The amendment refers to the terms "ministration" and "minister". For years, the SRS has been pointing to a termological provision that has been accepted by the ministries and the government, which refers to the authority of the ministry or minister. The SRS shall carry out its legal interpretation on the basis of the provisions of Article 136. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Ministry, the Law on State Administration. Our position remained unchanged – the power to adopt sublegal acts and other regulations does not belong to the minister, but to the ministry. But I will point out here another provision that can cause doubt and create problems for citizens, sometimes legal persons, because of unclear and unnecessary legal provisions. Article 29 of the Association Act provides for the submission of a founding act, two copies of the statutes, as well as other documents to be established by the act adopted by the Minister. Look, in practice, we have situations for the minister to pass a sublegal act defining the submission of certain documents that are sometimes contrary to and with the law itself or binding applicants to make a certain number of documents, so that the number of documents increases two, three times, etc. As a result, the SRS proposal to transfer this authority to the ministry, as in some other situations, and to what the law found to be an obligation... (President: Two minutes. I'm sorry, let me finish. In this case it is: application, founding act and statute, and nothing more. Everything else can be resolved in the administrative procedure, when an authorised representative is called and requested to supply certain data, not to require more acts to be delivered in the administrative procedure through sublegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23490	The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Nikola Lazic submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23491	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Article 30, which has received quite a number of amendments, provides for the rejection of applications for registration in the register in situations and cases. Four situations are listed here, that attitude one has four points. Democratic Party of Serbia MPs suggest adding point 5: "if the activities of the association are contrary to the provisions of Article 3(2) of this law." This is the first member, who is actually talking about what all one association can do, what must contain its founding act, so we think it would be good here to specify this Article 5.point 2) that it is almost unclear, that we want to say precisely and clearly with our amendment. On the other hand, it might be a better amendment if it said "planned activities". So – if the planned activities, which are seen from the founding act of the association, are contrary to the provisions of Article 3(2) of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23492	Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to the Proposal for an Association Law, which reads: "Article 30, paragraph 1, post point 4 is added to point 5). “ There are NGOs in Serbia whose activity is aimed at destroying the constitutional order and tearing Serbia apart. It's not normal, but we're used to it already. Now we move on, we adopt a law that legalises this destructive counter-constitutional action, and by that we will be unique in Europe. The proposal and adoption of such a law is a logical consequence of the fact that leaders and activists of such associations, I mean "Resist", the Fund for Humanitarian Law, Jukom, the Fund for Political Extremity, tailored to us the ideologies and policies of the Democratic Party, and carried out significant tasks in the Serbian government and in this Parliament. That in the functioning of these NGOs and their influence on political life in Serbia, nothing is random and that they participated in writing this law, a law that legalises their anti-constitutional activity, says one today. Ten minutes before 12 o'clock, at the main entrance to this building, I almost crashed with Sonja Licht, the supreme godfather of all NGOs. What is she doing in the congregation today? What will Sonja Licht do at the main entrance, which is reserved for MPs, government members and official guests of this assembly? Did you, and on what basis, invite her to the guests? Did she come uninvited? Did she come to you to share your packs and prepare that you do not accidentally think of withdrawing this law from the procedure or adopting amendments to the SRS that would prevent the continued anti-constitutional functioning of these American and Western exposures that Serbian citizens call the NATO Pact for a reason? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23494	The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked that Article 30 define the registrar's obligations more precisely when rejecting the application. I asked in this amendment that the competent authority, before rejecting this application, request the applicant to remove any deficiencies that would have been rejected within eight days of the application being completed. The promoter (Government) did not accept the amendment. The reason is: ‘The amendment is not accepted, since in all matters concerning the procedure, and not specifically governed by the draft law, the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, in particular the provisions of Article 58 of that Act, apply. “ However, several times I reviewed the entire law, and in no part of it I found that the law also relied on the Law of Administrative Procedure in its application. Perhaps Mr. Minister, and precisely his ministry is called the Department of State and Local Self-Government, thinks it's meant to be. If that's what he thinks, then I can tell him that this law is pretty lay-ish, or initially made. This is all written because there is no mention of administrative procedure and the Law of Administrative Procedure. This, according to the Minister, is understood, but in his proposal he is relying on the Accounting and Audit Act. If the Law on Administrative Procedure is followed, why is this law not included, but is it specifically indicated? Then there's some terminology that can't exactly be found in the law itself, legal rules about civil partner. And what law regulates, what regulation, what sublegal act? Which practice regulates, let them make sure those who apply this law know. Well, then, the Law on the Oversight of Signatures, Transcripts and manuscripts (and that is to say, if the Law on Administrative Procedure applies); the Law on Legal Procedure is also listed; the Law on Registration of Business Entities is also stated; the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens... They didn't know how to write the promoters, or the minister, because he wrote it in an area where the tax laws and the corporate tax laws are regulated; that's what they're called, Mr. Minister, the laws you're referring to, and not what you wrote in your bill. Also misspelled, foreign currency law. In all these areas, in the application of this law, those who will apply it rely on these laws that I have now read and which are located, more or less incorrectly or properly written, in the proposal. You don't mention anything, Mr. Minister, the Law of Administrative Procedure. Because if he does, why shouldn't these others? So you can introduce one new practice as Minister of State Administration, which is that at the beginning or in the transitional and final provisions of the law you will write down all the laws when some law comes into force to apply. It'll make it easier for you to control your co-workers who help you. This amendment has been rejected, I can say, for one ridiculous reason. It seems that Mr. Minister, any law that his ministry proposes, or perhaps he participates in his creation, views the minors as one of his children, as some legacy to the Republic of Serbia and to the citizens of Serbia, so God forbid anyone dares to change that with some amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23496	The time available for the Progress Group is 15 minutes and 20 seconds. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond together have submitted an amendment proposing that the title and article 34 be added after article 34. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the electronic system, there are no people's ambassadors who would like to speak. (Zoran Shami, from the scene: I didn't insert the card. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Miladanovic and Jelena Budimirovic. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23497	This is about how, under what conditions benefits are used when financing the association when it comes to financial subsidies. Since the promoter says the amendment is not accepted since under financial subsidies in the sense of Article 36, Article 1(1). The bill includes all possible forms of financial subsidies prescribed by specific laws, and not only financial subsidies for the implementation of the public-interest programme set out in this law, I am interested, Mr Minister, are subsidies possible in terms of taxes? Can someone be subsidized and privileged and diminished by some public interest a certain tax base? If possible, will he use these funds for the purpose of public interest or will he try to deceive the tax authority (or will the tax authority allow it to be deceived) to gain some illegal property benefit, or some particular convenience, for himself personally or for an association from which citizens will not benefit? That's why I'm interested in you explaining a little bit more and more. This argument says he can, but he doesn't have to. Of course, the law cannot allow that. I can say about all of this that one such explanation does not stand at all when it comes to amendments and laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23498	The remaining time available to the Prosperity Group is 13 minutes and 10 seconds ahead. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 36th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23499	The Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment to Article 36, which says that for voluntary contributions, donations and gifts higher than the 1000-euro dinar equivalent, it is mandatory to put the donor's names in public. It is clear that many organizations and associations use funds whose origins are donors. Of course, there should be a difference between some small donations, but I assure you that there are also donations that should be recorded and that should not be a secret. The idea of this amendment is to make it available to the public who are donors of the appropriate association. At the same time, allow me to explain the previous amendment to Article 35. (by mistake there was no card in the system, although I applied) where we ask that the amount of compensation cannot be greater than one average profit in the Republic. It is the fees to be determined for the registration of the association. Of course, it doesn't matter one average salary, it's important that there's some upper limit that this government or some other government wouldn't come under attack to prevent the formation of an association by prescribing fees that are unrealistically high. I have to admit, I don't understand why that amendment was rejected, because... As soon as Mr. Secretary hears me out... So I don't understand why the amendment was rejected, because it was made in the best interest to prevent any possibility of making it difficult to form an association by determining some unreally high fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23500	Time is available as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group for 12 minutes and 30 seconds. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23501	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope no one needs to be particularly convinced that there have been various NGOs in Serbia for more than 10-15 years that are nothing more than the CIA exposure and other intelligence services. Their activities are often directed against the fundamental state and national interests, the collapse of the constitutional order and the violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. This is not allowed in any other European country. There are three ways to get these NGOs in the way. The first is to ban them and that would be the best way. Of course, you won't do it because you're more afraid of them than they are of you. Another way is to ban all NGOs in Serbia whose work is financed from abroad. As you know, it was Putin in Russia. When powerful Russia estimated that it was the only way to protect against the destruction of NGOs, it was, at the very least, a signal that Serbia should think about perhaps reaching out to similar measures. The third measure is to put their funding under control of the Serbian state. In this regard, I have submitted an amendment to add, in Article 36 following Article 3, item 3, which would read: "The association cannot obtain property from voluntary contributions, donations and gifts (in money or nature) and financial subsidies from abroad without a special authorisation from the competent ministry. “ I don’t think this will prevent the abuse of these NGOs, the misuse of funds from abroad, but in any case, it would create some space to introduce order and such control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23502	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23503	I consider this member to be significant, in addition to those of the previous, and above all Articles 10 and 2. Why? Because these members are prescribed what resources are to finance the activities of the Association of Citizens. Since this type of association of citizens is covered by the same member of the Constitution where political parties and trade union organisations are located, I believe that it should and must be an identical way of providing funds for the activities of the association. Now, to narrow it down to what is already known to the public: membership fees, voluntary contributions, surely they should be limited in some way, all contributions that are greater than 6,000 dinars should be recorded in particular. I repeat, in 2003 you put this as a standard in the Law on the financing of political parties, so there is no need to wonder at any idea. It's your idea and I'm just reminding you of her. There you have also been prescribed on income from assets (this could be the lease); there you have had restrictions on legal persons who did not comply with the obligations towards the state; then you have had restrictions on those persons who deal with imports of goods, and according to legal persons who trade and produce excise products. Finally, there must be a clearly written ban that citizens' associations cannot raise loans from banks. You have experience, you could have installed it, and you didn't purposely install it, because you know you're being commanded by NGOs. You Sonja Licht can't look into your eyes. Why? She promoted your staff. They boast that they have been promoted thanks to NGOs. Just to remind you, Jelasic was a scholarship student of an NGO when he was educated in America, studied in America for epochal discoveries in finance; the previous president of the National Assembly, orthopedic, thanks to Sonja Licht, advanced in the Democratic Party, and not to be in such order. About Biljana Kovacevic-Vučo, about Natasa Kandić not to talk. You must not attack Natasha Kandic for some of her statements. It destroys the constitutional tissue of the Republic of Serbia. No, you have to stick with her. She's a witness in The Hague these days, she's a witness to the defense of Florence Artman; your Flo, as you called her, these friends, these advisors of the President of the Republic and home friends of Florence Artman. You have experience, you can solve it, and you didn't purposely solve it. You have made it possible, simply, to wave this law, to praise you some NGOs, such as Dereta and others, as it is pro-European (all is pro-European), top-notch, well done. I remind you, in the first position of this article you have concluded the sentence with the words "and in another legal way allowed". So anyone can now credit NGOs, the US Embassy may also lend a memorandum, through your John, Raskovic, Ratkovic, I don't know, from the Resistance, which was the courier Jovica between the DS and the US Embassy. You have to legalize something that was and legalize an existing state. You must not do anything, since the United States is angry with you because you have dared to press proceedings before the International Court of Justice for declaring Kosovo independent. You had to sell NIS to the Russian side, which the Americans will never forgive you, absolutely never. As Djindjic was never forgiven for being present outside the US Embassy in 1992 with Paroška when they lit the US flag. We have, simply, such a government that is conditioned abroad and cannot do anything. NGOs are so strong that you had to write a law that suits them. In attacks on certain things in Serbia, they run to Americans and English for additional funds for their activities; they do not respond to order and peace in the Republic of Serbia, lose funds from abroad, and therefore represent abroad that there is total chaos here and I do not know what, etc. That way they get funds for subversive activities. Just to remind you, there is great praise on the Hague tribunal site by the prosecution, which boasts that through its Sarajevo office, the entire system of NGOs in the Republic of Serbia, which should protect witnesses, are funding evidence that they work for The Hague tribunal. When did you hear Natasha Kandic think that a Serb had the right to respect his human rights? That's impossible. It wasn't designed for that purpose. If she did, she wouldn't get money from abroad. That I don't order the whole system, that you can't touch. You intend to transfer CESID, too, to the state body, as you have relocated the Resistance. "Resistance" is now in the Ministry of Justice, "Resistance" is in your National Assembly, "Resistance" is your main ideologist of the Democratic Party. You have to keep something you promised. As you promised when you were making coalitions at the province level, you are now prisoners and you must show condescendingness to everyone in the statutes. So, you have experience, your solution from the Law on the financing of political parties, you were only able to rephrase here. You wouldn't do anything wrong, absolutely nothing. You could have predicted public sources, you could have predicted private sources, as you used there. But, no, you must not oppose the idea that NGOs are pushing in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23504	The remaining time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 26 minutes and 40 seconds. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23505	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I'm going to use the time of the MEP group of ZES, so I'm going to talk a little bit about these amendments. Here, indeed, Serbian citizens, we hear an interesting debate when we talk about the law on associations of citizens and NGOs. We can base this debate on arguments made by certain political parties, as well as what certain political parties are trying to design through the law on NGOs. I understand that some who sit in this hall and now represent a political party, and prefer to become an NGO because they are unable to cross the census in Vrnjačka Banja, Književec and some other places, try to imitate the law with their next political action through an NGO. I understand their saying that NGOs represent harmful organisations that do bad things for Serbia because they see themselves in NGOs and their political activities through these NGOs in the future. But NGOs are everywhere in the world, including Serbia, the guardians of democracy. NGOs are all over the world nurtured by the state, regimes, citizens, democratic societies, because NGOs are the best and fastest to see problems, small local problems, and these problems are adequately solved. On the other hand, some appear here and see Dr Zoran Djindjic, who has made an immeasurable contribution to the development of democracy. They see him outside the U.S. embassy and today, and they forget about his leader waving the American flag and supporting the bombing of Iraq by the U.S. in the Gulf War. They forget that the next day he went to that same Iraq to take money to finance his political party. It speaks of the morals of these people, of their memory, talking enough about what they intend to do for Serbia and what they want to do. Some here, however, say, if they were in power, they would forbid NGOs. I just remind them that they were in power so they wouldn't ban NGOs, because they showed, at that point, a dose of reason. On the other hand, they say they would easily introduce Serbia into the EU, only if they were in power. When I think of their political action, I am sure that they would really quickly bring Serbia out of the crisis, but it would be part of the crisis: first they would take Sandzak, then central Serbia, then Vojvodina. I don't think that would be good for Serbia or for them either. Indeed, Serbia could be introduced into the European Union, but Serbia would lack two facts necessary for entering the European Union – state and territory. In the end, I have to remind all those people who care for the fate of the "Resistance", they still say that someone in this country is afraid of choices, that they are afraid of "Resistance". I am very proud of my membership in the Resistance, I am very proud that many of the resistance people have their place in the institutions of the system and state, because "Resistance" is an organisation that has contributed not only to democratic changes, but has prevented the occupation of Serbia that some political parties wanted to implement. "Resistance" is an organisation that has contributed to the development of democracy in this country. When they talk about how we from the Resistance fear someone, as a representative of the Resistance, I know very well what fear is – fear is what I see in the eyes of some political opponents who, as well as the importance of calling the elections and how they scare and hide in the mouse hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23506	The time available to the MEP group ZES is 86 minutes and 30 seconds. Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Zoran Shami. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23507	This is, let me say, a technical amendment, simply corrects one mistake, which is not quite clear. In particular, Article 37 refers to the activities of the association and in point 3 of point 3 as one of the conditions – that the activity of the smaller volume is, or that the activity is carried out in the scope of the objectives of the association. We have suggested that this formulation "that the activity of the smaller volume" be deleted. What is meant by “the activity of a small volume ”? I mean, someone's 100 euros is less, someone's 100,000 small, and Miskovic's probably 100 million euros is a small volume. It doesn't mean anything. And if any dispute arises about this provision in law, I don't know how the court can rule. Probably couldn't possibly. Since that doesn't mean anything, we suggested that it be deleted. In other words, point 3) reads only – that the work is carried out in the extent necessary to achieve the objectives of the association. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23508	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23509	How can I tell you, Mr. Shami, as you, as a mathematician, explain to us here what a number is and what a number is, simply, there are some things that are standard in this society; there are the last, I don't know, for some I know at least 18 years, for this lower-scale standard. Where did we find this? Well, that was in all the laws that regulated the registration of business entities, so in the infringement provisions relating to the activities of those registered, etc. It's just something that exists, but I'd go into too wide a discussion if I was going to tell you now how it happened, why it's there, and now we're going to get out of that INDOK that all laws contain such standards. It's a standard that should exist. There's nothing new in our legal system. I understand it's not familiar to you, but since we're already explaining and writing, give me a little confidence. Believe the rest of us know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23510	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23511	The fact is that certain associations of citizens, if I may say, with a noble area of activity very often cougar with how to provide funds for some of their normal activities. Then there is the inevitable need to perform some action that can, according to the classification of activity, belong to an economic activity, where it is necessary to do some, why not say, difference in price or simply charge some service. Of course, neither is the price, nor is it the price difference, nor the service price that is common in commercial matters. But, really, Mr. Shami is right, this "small scale" needs to be kind of precise. This may mean that all revenue generated from these economic activities is used to settle the costs of the basic function and objectives, but this must in some ways be defined. I also agree with what the minister said, there are some regulations that define that, above all, the Accounting and Audit Act, in some provisions, but do not define this, but define what is in relation to the company; in tax regulations there is also - to the amount of total income; there is also some limit in value added tax, not to waste time, not to go into details. But I think you kind of had to make that clear. I would even be pleased if you wrote that these revenues were intended and that they were proven to have been spent on those basic goals achieved by an association. It's not there. Otherwise, I must commend this last attitude. There's a huge ban on sharing any profit at the end of the year among employees. Why? It's a good thing that this provision stands, because the goal of some association isn't profit. By definition, it's a non-profit organization. However, as everything can be booked with expenses, God help us. I want to remind you of one thing. Under our financial regulations, we prescribed these registers, so the VAT billing, so Mladjan Dinkic invented a transmission system for communication, not because of payment cards, but for each booking. It doesn't react, it doesn't work at all, and every store has to have it. People give big money, the system doesn't exist, everyone keeps it on, they pay phone bills and acting. To avoid this act, I suggest, if it is not a problem, as regards the amendments, that you define in some way what this "smaller volume" means, because the purpose of this amendment is to define what it is. Since you haven't given the definition, of course, people have suggested that it be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23512	The SRS parliamentary group is available for 23 minutes. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 37. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us, as we can see, the draft law on associations. New Serbia has submitted a large number of amendments wishing to fix the law. To Article 37(3), we submit an amendment to add the words "until after the consent of the competent municipal authority" behind the words "public authority". Recital of this amendment: "The associations do not have a priority objective of economic activity, but it is necessary that they also work in a given domain to provide additional income from these activities, in order to cover fixed costs and the needs of the association. It is necessary to have control by the competent municipal authorities of whether that activity is compatible with the objective of the association itself and whether these activities serve as a means of facilitating the implementation of the basic purpose of the association. “ The amendment is clear. It is not clear why the Government and the Proposer are not responding, Mr. Minister, to any amendments the opposition submits to correct the law. You don't even respond to the amendments that go to your advantage. Mrs. Komic, with an apology, I would use the time I have because I was absent when the amendment to Article 36 passed, so I would ask that, if I may, I say something about him, because he is extremely important to the associations. In Article 36(2), the words “can be” are replaced by the words “being”. Article 36 speaks of the way in which the association’s assets are acquired and in paragraph 2 of the Law states: ‘Natural and legal persons who make contributions and gifts to associations may be exempt from the relevant tax obligations in accordance with the law introducing the relevant public income’. In this morning's presentation, Mr. Pastor pointed out the fact that this was introduced into the law practically in December, when their MP group suggested. This has now entered this legislative proposal, but, Mr. Minister, it would be very good if at times when many clubs, alliances, associations are squirming with incomes, not enough budgets for their existence... Here, I will specifically tell you that in a sports organisation, where I am a member, in the chess alliance (here, today you have in "Politica", certain clubs in Belgrade are leaving the first federal league, specifically "Vovod" Belgrade. Is it possible that potential donors of such associations (or for any other clubs in the country) cannot be fully freed from tax obligations? This imperative, i.e. this dispersive "can be", is one selection that is unnatural. So either there's no such thing or there is. Why should we separate certain donors who can say – I like this one, I'm going to free him, I'm not going to do this; there's another unfair competition, a space for manipulation, Mr. Minister. So to motivate people who want to invest in sports, in youth, in children, they need to be freed. At the end of the line, we're going to disburse the budget, because donors are going to give funds, and in some final annual review, we're going to see that if we've given a certain budget fund to an association, it can be proportionally reduced, given that they have donation activity. I do not see any reason, if you have provided in the law for "can be", why did you not accept the amendment "will be released". You can make some transitional provisions or there's something... But believe me, an amendment like this would encourage sports clubs, young people, various associations. I'm afraid in a situation of this kind of economic nature, in which the budget of associations, clubs, alliances and others is greatly reduced, we will soon have a very small number of associations, because they will have nothing to finance from. Do not "may be" drive away potential donors, because it is not a guarantee that they will be exempt from tax obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23514	The time available to the NS Parliamentary Group is two minutes and thirty seconds. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Nikolic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23515	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, Article 38 speaks of the means to implement the programme of public interest. In position 1, you state that public-interest jobs for the Republic of Serbia in the Republic of Serbia's budget are being provided for funds for the operation of the association. It is not disputed that citizens' associations have become a third sector and a very valuable partner to the state in many areas, primarily in the fields of education, science, environmental protection, social welfare, human and minority rights, and all other areas where the state with its vast apparatus and trom and large administration has no interest and sufficient speed to react. On the other hand, NGOs, or associations of citizens, are more flexible and can respond much faster and easier to the needs of citizens who are specific and what is the problem in a particular local environment. Our complaint, fellow Nikolic and mine, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Serbia, is that you did not state in that 1st position what are the budgets from which the transactions that are entrusted on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous provinces (although you say you have an autonomous province) and local self-government. We believe that in Article 38(1), in addition to the Serbian budget, the budgets of the Autonomous provinces and the budgets of local self-government, although all these budgets are mentioned later in paragraphs 4 or 5. I think it is also simpler because of the later work on this field to state in the first position the possibilities of all the budgets from which the work for which the associations of citizens can compete will be financed. So it's the only grudge. It's a simple technical matter and a matter of transparency and I really don't know why it wasn't accepted. Actually, I know, because it's coming from the DSS. But what's the general point of view is that a member of the 38th is extremely well written and that's what Mr. Lonchar did very well as a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23516	The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23517	The NS Parliament Club submitted an amendment to Article 38(3) to add the words "and maternity" behind the words "care for children". Article 38, paragraph 5 behind the words "local self-government" adds, " associations can compete on the same programme at all levels, both from the Republic of Serbia's budget and from the budget of the autonomous province and local self-government". The explanation of this amendment – Article 38(3) failed to draw particular attention to the problem of resolving maternity status, which is extremely important to highlight and specify, and all in order to ensure overall concern about the incentive of birth. Article 38(5) further explains that associations may have programmes that are of interest to the local or wider community. If revenue from the RS budget is realised, and this is not sufficient funding for the implementation of the association programme, the possibility of the same-based funds being supplied by local self-government authorities should not be limited. This is an amendment to Article 38. When it comes to funding for the implementation of the programme of public interest, the NS Parliament Club would like to include, by this amendment, in a series of those listed under the Public Interest Programme and maternity care programme. The birth problem in Serbia is extremely large. One such proposal and accepting such an amendment would certainly protect maternity status in a more adequate way. When we talk about attitude 5, it is clear that there is no need to limit the possibility for associations to compete with both budget and local self-government for the funds needed to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23518	The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic and Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23519	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again there are no Ministers, and there have been some important issues that concern him directly and which only he could solve. The purpose of the full member was to allocate funds from the budget to associations to finance programmes that are of public interest to the Republic of Serbia. In point 3, the areas to which these funds are allocated are numbered. The shortest I will read is social protection, martial law, protection of persons with disabilities, social care for children, protection of displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, refugees, promotion of birth, assistance to the elderly, health care, protection and promotion of human and minority rights, education, science, culture, information, environmental protection, sustainable development, animal protection, the fight against corruption, humanitarian programmes and other programmes. We felt that the promoter had failed to mention very important areas. We asked that the words "defense and security, protection and rescue" be added behind the words "culture". In this explanation, as well as in many arguments to other members of this law, the legislator says that they have numbered the most important areas, and that for the areas that we have mentioned here in the event of a need can be interpreted as being able to give these resources in these areas too. This is similar to the reasons that we have heard today, that something is written in the Constitution or that something is already in some other laws. (President: Two minutes. I still have our time. I think this could have been just one technical thing and that the proposer should have accepted this suggestion. When the debate was in principle we pointed to direct legal failures in this law. We warned of Article 20, we said that in the case of courts, the "basic court" provision simply prevents this law from being applied as stated in Article 90. Although it is a fundamental error of the promoter, which makes it impossible for this law to enter into force eight days after its publication, it has not been taken into account either. Today I have had the opportunity to see that MPs have made suggestions to amend this law, that this law has been seriously worked, and from the reasons and from the number of amendments accepted, it is seen that the proponent, or whoever was in charge of reading these amendments, is inconclusive. I cannot accept saying that these two areas, the area of defence and security and the area of protection and rescue, are some irrelevant areas, so, if necessary, this law can also apply to them. If we take only scout associations, hikers, divers, rowers, voluntary fire departments, deminers, all of this could be included in these four words. But this is the behaviour of the promoter, this attitude towards the MPs and our work that loses all meaning. I wanted to point that out. It really needs an explanation by the minister that he thinks this law will apply on the eighth day of its publication if there is a provision in Article 20 of the "basic Court", and we know that it will not work until the end of this year; the question is whether it will start to apply in the following year, although there is a Article 90, i.e. transitional and final provision in which the minister, i.e. the proposer, has fenced and inserted that provision so that the law can be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23520	The time available to the Progress Group for Serbia is ten minutes. The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23521	Thank you, Madam Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would ask you to include this time used by MP Delic at the time of the authorised representative, given that MP Bozidar Delic is an authorised representative. I would have to agree with my colleague Delic and counterpart Mić Rogovic, who submitted the amendment in front of the SNS parliamentary club, which refers to funds to encourage programmes that are implemented by associations and missing part of funding from public importance programmes. Madam Chairman, I think it is really necessary for the minister to attend, because this is an extremely important amendment, which in this case has no one to accept. There is no authorised representative of the ruling majority, there is no minister (in fact, not that it does not exist, but they are not present right now), so it is completely pointless. I'd like the minister, no need to answer me, not a day to ask questions, but I'd like him to answer me, at least by noding my head, to one very important thing, and that's whether defence and safety are more important than protecting the environment and protecting animals? Although I think these are important areas, they cannot be more important than defence and security and rescue, so I would suggest that you take a break until the minister is able to visit the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23522	The time of the mandated member of Parliament's Group's Progress Serbia's National MP Bozidar Delic is 12 minutes, and the time available to the MP's group is 12 minutes. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic submitted together to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23523	Madam Vice President, before I begin to explain the amendment, I would like to ask you to ensure that the motionary's representative is present in the O.R. because I consider the amendment very important. It is very important that the minister hears it, in order to understand the importance and adopt this amendment. But since that, I see, is impossible and since it has become a practice that ministers do not listen to the MPs, especially the MPs of the opposition, nothing, I will continue to explain this amendment. So this 39th member should regulate one area concerning the keeping of business books and financial reports. We of the Democratic Party of Serbia felt that this member was insufficient and that a new 3rd position should be introduced in this 39th member, which reads: "The example of the annual accounting and the report on the activities of the association is required to be delivered to the competent unit of the tax administration on whose territory the association is located no later than 31 March of the following year. “ What does it matter? I'll give you two examples. So we recently had the operation of a non-governmental organisation financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, money collected on the basis of taxes from all citizens. The NGO is called "Reaction" and deals with consumer issues. This NGO has entered a space accusing the entire one system in the state, what kind of health system is it, of stealing human organs, and at the moment we're like a state... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... We began to prove that there was a theft of the Serbian national authorities that were taken to Albania, in the so-called "Serb Nationality". The yellow house. To whom did the NGO account for the money received from the Republic of Serbia's budget from the position of the Ministry of Trade? That's one example. The second example, which is also very fresh, is the way of working in the past meeting of the Hunting Union of Serbia. The one who followed these activities is a witness that there have been major embezzlements in the Hunting Union of Serbia, that even money has been borrowed from the president of the association, that cars have been bought, that the fabulous prices of lunches and dinners have been paid. I'll use the MP's group's time below. What is important and what needs to be known, transparency is an excellent means for the society that we are in right now. So if there is no transparency and there is no control over the spending of funds, which is not foreseen by this article, then we come, as a society and as a state, in the situation we are in today. That's why it was important for the minister to hear what I said, to understand how important this amendment is and to accept this amendment. But the minister's feature, it seems, is not to listen to the MPs, but to challenge a series of replicas and those topics that are not at all part of the law, nor should they be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23524	The DSS parliamentary group has ten minutes and thirty seconds to go. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23525	I would take the opportunity to look back at all the amendments that have been submitted to the article. In 38 and 39, and for this reason: Article 38 opens the possibility that the budget of the Republic, the budget of the units of local self-government and the budget of the Autonomous Region will be the sources of funds for citizens' associations, under appropriate conditions, for the implementation of public interest programmes. Please, one who is financed from the budget loses the status of NGOs and questions the status of the Association of Citizens. For the sake of the public, for the record, here, let's say, you allow the possibility of funding an association of citizens who are promoted by human and minority rights. Would someone in the Republic of Serbia accept that the funding of the budget is financed by the Humanitarian Law Fund or, if I did not now make a mistake in the names of these associations of citizens, NGOs, those organisations headed by Vojin Dimitrijevic, Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Sonja Licht? Would one of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia accept that taxpayers' money is given to these associations, regardless of whether the conditions for using funds are some kind of programme, some concept and some kind of project? You didn't predict any licensing here, or the justification of some projects. You do not have the consent to deal with this issue, to fund these types of NGOs that are destructively acting, which do not recognise the Constitution and the law. You know how those statements go. We now have a situation where Vojin Dimitrijevic's son may be able to decide whether from the position of the Ministry of Culture there will be funds to be allocated to a dear, dear, non-governmental organization of his father. You've had a situation financing the opening of a site for some kinks, etc. If indeed this regulation was not written by someone who understands the rules, it is sufficient to look at Article 39 and Section 1. You have put the review of the report here as something mandatory, but you need to know that there is an Accounting and Audit Act, where small and medium-sized enterprises, according to total income, etc., are not obliged to carry out the audit. If you knew what the prices for the audit services were and translated it into a mountainous or voluntary fire company, they would not be able to pay those costs. I think the basic problem here is that we write down the rules of people without a job, no life experience, no work experience; simply, a system of copying or some conditioning on the side, and then we have really pointless regulations, something that in practice tomorrow won't even be possible to implement, or to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23526	The SRS parliamentary group is available for 19 minutes. Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 42nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Radulović and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on several occasions today the MPs here in parliament have been asking the question where is the minister. I'm asking the same question where he is. I don't think he jumped in a moment to Brussels, so he'll be back here, and then back to Brussels, he'll be back here. Madam Chairman, your way of running the session shows you're in a hurry there, and the question is, when are we gonna get there at all? Today, the minister on several occasions, corresponding and replicating the MPs, above all Velimir Ilic and Mr Zoran Shami, explained inappropriately why the amendment of the Democratic Party of Serbia was not accepted. I think the Ministry and the Government had to take into account the very amendments that we have made, because in some important things, they improve this law. To remove that suspicion, we had no intention of destruction, but we tried to improve this law in such a way as to be appropriate to the conditions that prevail. I would now refer to this amendment tabled by the DSS Parliamentary Group, which refers to Article 42(1) where we have proposed to delete the word "invaluable". He's an analogized amendment that we submitted to Article 2 for the simple reason that it's quite clear that most associations... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Among other things, it makes a profit, so this declarative definition has no purpose whatsoever. Article 37 clearly defines: “The Association can also perform both the business or other activity that is gaining profits,” I underline - profit, “in accordance with the law governing the classification of activity, under the following conditions: 1) that the activity is related to its constitutional objectives; 2) that the activity is provided for in the Statute; 3) that the activity is carried out in the scope of the objectives of the association. “ It is from this article 37 that our intention is clearly to improve this law by eradicating this word “invaluablely, ” since it is already possible for Article 37 to gain profit, and we believe that this word is completely excessive. The government, by the way, may also prescribe an amount to register the association. But what are we afraid of? We have put in, after all, a remark that this amount is maximum to the level of average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. We believe that in this way, it allows for a discriminatory relationship with certain persons who want to register as an association, that it is exclusively in the government's jurisdiction and that the Government then determines who will pay what amount, and then that those who have really healthy goals, who are not in the government's interest at that time, write down so much amount that they cannot register. I think that this is a big problem, especially because this government and political parties that make up the ruling majority, and especially the biggest party in the ruling majority, show a specific attitude towards those NGOs and associations that have an unwitting relationship with Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. That's one big problem. Besides, that's what I'm going to end up with, the G17 party was created as an NGO. They were first an NGO, so they registered as a political party. We know how much they have contributed to the improvement of Serbia's citizens during this time. As for Mr Milivojevic's exposure, he is an expert in NGOs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23528	The remaining time available to the DSS Group is six minutes and fifty seconds. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23529	On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 42(1) and (2). The draft law on associations, which reads – after the word "interruption", the word "work" is added. Article 42 refers to the recipient of the assets of the association. The association has the right to dispose of its own assets, and it is intended to determine the recipient of the property by its statute in case the association ceases to exist. Members of the SRS are dissatisfied with the proposed law on associations completely. The bill of law is confusing, vague and inconclusive, as is Article 42, which I have submitted the amendment to. The proposed solution provides an opportunity for everyone to interpret this law in their own way. Any provision that is inaccurate and unclear can create confusion in interpreting the law. That is why I think the amendment is more specifically proposed and that you should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23530	Member of the 43rd Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I have submitted an amendment to Article 45 to add item 3 after Article 2 which reads: "Statusal changes can be made if they are decided by at least 51% of the members of the association or 51% of the representatives of the association assembly". Recital - it is necessary for the law to determine the qualified majority to make such decisions of the association in order to avoid the possibility of different interpretations of these provisions. Article 45 speaks of the status change in the legal position of the association being made on the basis of a decision by the competent authority in accordance with the Statute and this law. Status changes are the attachment, merger and division of the association. I'm sorry the minister isn't here in the O.R. because in an informal discussion, we had a common position that this amendment should be accepted. He may have forgotten, but I'm very sorry that I thought this amendment would surely be accepted. The amendment submitted by New Serbia is good and would introduce legal order, practically, among all associations, regarding status changes. Hence, it is not clear why good amendments are not considered in the right way when we are discussing details. Amendments are usually decided by people who are not competent enough to discuss such matters and, of course, the most frequently served matter in front of the minister. That's not good, because if a bill like this gets this many amendments, I mean about 165, and only one or two have been accepted, it's not a good signal... (President: Two minutes. )......................................................................................................... Just to finish, it's not a good signal for the work of this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23532	Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Otto Kishmarton. The government has accepted this amendment. National MP Otto Kishmarton wants the word that the government twice accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23533	I have submitted to this law two amendments - one is good, one that the government has accepted, and the first, Article 2 is even better, but the government has not accepted it, the minister has not been present; if he had been present, he would probably have accepted the first amendment to Article 2. I'd just like to briefly say what the amendment is about. As the law regulates how the legal framework for the functioning of the association should be given, this law should also regulate and delete the association from the register. This article, which I have submitted to the amendment, regulates the reasons for eradicating the association from the register. These are: the will of the association itself; then, if the association is established with a view to achieving a common interest within a certain period, at the end of that time, the association shall be shut down; then, it shall be shut down because of the constitutional changes; if the association does not carry out the tasks for which it has been established, unless, within a given period, the assembly assembly is held; in point 5 — the association shall be shut down if it is established that the association does not carry out activities in the pursuit of the statutes and that it has not been organised in accordance with the statute for more than two years on a continuous basis or if it has been twice as long as the time established by the Statute for holding a session of the Assembly, and it has not been held. An amendment which is not accepted is a question which raises the question that nowhere in a member stands who is who will run it, or informs the registrar that the association does not carry out activities in accordance with this Article and the Statute. This is where I suggested adding a new position, which reads: “Anyone can inform the registrar of the existence of a reason for eradicating the association from the register set out in point 2 of point 5 of this Article. “ There are now over 30,000 associations, and the registrar will hardly be able to monitor whether congregations are held regularly in all these associations, whether associations are working according to their status. Therefore, here is the possibility that anyone who has knowledge that this association does not work in accordance with the statute, does not maintain a congregation within a given time or has otherwise met the conditions for termination, or the removal from the register may inform the registrar about it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23534	The time available for the Progress Group is eleven minutes. National MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Nikola Lazic, Milan Dimitrijevic and Donka Banovic together submitted the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23535	Madam Chairman, about ten minutes ago, I asked you a question you didn't have an answer to. You are required, according to the Rules of Procedure, to ensure normal conditions for the work of Parliament. I told you to ensure the presence of a proposing representative. You didn't do it. So, we're talking, and there's no proposing officer. Who are we talking to and who are we explaining this law to? To the proposer, to adopt amendments and to answer some questions. You are obviously not interested in it and it shows the relationship of the ruling coalition to this congregation. But back to the amendment. This amendment to Article 49, which resolves the status changes, refers to the termination of the work of the Association of Citizens and NGOs, by which we have provided for adding a fifth position – that citizens' associations will submit their documents to the archives of the municipality's archives on whose territory they are established. We received the following answer – that this question is detailedly regulated by the Cultural Goods Act. Where's the minister to explain what kind of answer this is? Do you think culturally good documentation of the fishing association, that it represents cultural good and that it should be kept in accordance with this law? The documentation of the hunting association is culturally good? If an association of citizens working against the interests of this country is established, then it is removed and deleted from the register, is that cultural good that should be kept in this country? So it's obvious the minister didn't even read this bill. (President: Two minutes. If he'd read it, we wouldn't have gotten these answers to the amendments. So he's just a signator of this bill, and it would be good if the law had read and given meaningful answers to these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23536	Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Ostojić. The time available to the LDP parliamentary group is four minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23537	Too bad he doesn't have a minister. This amendment is related to the amendment to Article 26. The government didn't accept it, but if there was a minister, he might accept it when he heard the argument. This law provides that the register of the association is run by the Agency for Economic Registers. We believe that such a solution is completely inappropriate, because the Agency for Business Registers runs the Association Register as non-profit legal entities. In addition, we believe that this solution is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for the following reasons: according to the provisions of Article 18. The Constitution, human and minority rights guaranteed by the Constitution, are directly applied. The Constitution guarantees and as such directly applies human and minority rights guaranteed by the general rules of international law, approved international agreements and laws. The law may lay down a way of exercising these rights only if the Constitution expressly provides for it or if it is necessary for the exercise of a particular right because of its nature, in which case the law must in no case affect the essence of the guaranteed right. The Association Act should regulate the establishment and legal position, registration and erasure of the register, membership and bodies, status changes and termination of the association, as well as any other issues relevant to the operation of the association, i.e. the method of achieving constitutional freedom of association guaranteed by Article 55. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The first constitutional provision guarantees freedom of political, trade union and other association. Article 2 provides for associations to be established without prior authorisation, with registration in the register run by a state body, in accordance with the law. The Constitution does not provide for the possibility of the state authority not to entrust the registration of the association with another body, not the state, regulatory body or agency. By way of derogation from Article 55, The constitution is equally treated and guaranteed the freedom of political association, which regulates the rules on political parties, trade unions, regulated by the relevant regulations, including those relating to work, and other association that should be governed by this law. In other words, it is provided, in a unique manner and in the same constitutional provision, a general guarantee of freedom of association, and the types of association are determined according to the objectives for which the citizens are joined. While the way in which the political, trade union and other association is governed by specific regulations is achieved, none of these regulations provides that the register of legal persons created in the use of that constitutional freedom is governed by the agency, and especially not the one established for the purpose of keeping a register of economic operators, i.e. those legal and natural persons carrying out the activity of the production or transport of goods or the provision of services on the market in order to obtain profits. Given that the Agency is legally defined as an organisation established for development, professional or regulatory matters of general interest, that it is independent in its work, that the Government cannot direct the work of a public agency or coordinate it with the work of the Authority of the Authority, there is no doubt that the Agency for Business Registers is not a state body or that the provisions of Article 26. The proposal for this law constitutes an infringement of Article 55(2). The Constitution. In addition, the provisions of Article 26. The bill constitutes an infringement of a member of the Constitution which prescribes that the law should in no way affect the essence of the Constitution of guaranteed law. I've got two minutes of this amendment, and I've got the next amendment, so I'm going to keep reading the explanation, the Honorable Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23538	People's MP, the time that is at your disposal as a member of Parliament has been used. You're not the bearer of the amendment you've applied for.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23539	Parliamentarians Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted together to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Members of Parliament Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted together to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Elena Christmas-Talian submitted an amendment proposing that the head above article 59 be deleted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milan Veselinovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title above article 59 be deleted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Vukicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Vukicevic. Just sign in again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23540	After all that has happened since our country was broken, there are many reasons, and one of the most important reasons is security, which is why Serbian Radical Party MPs are convinced that the work of foreign associations should not be regulated by this, but by a special law, i.e. One more comprehensive law, which should exist. Many world-renowned humanitarian organisations and UN-sponsored organisations have been abused in some of their parts for subversive activity against our country, on certain parts or throughout the territory. Many terrible events have been staged by members of individual humanitarian or peace organisations. The bombing also began by staged such an event and was called a peace mission, "Mercy Angel" and other epithets that, of course, no one can accept. Today we have a situation that Kosovo and Metohija have been separated by violent means, only because we have too much faith in one of the organisations that should have brought peace in that area, while some other NGOs have been gathering information and watching our moods in relation to certain events and using them against us. Therefore, SRS MPs cannot agree that the work of foreign associations should be regulated by this law, but, as I said at the outset, this should be done by a more specific, more comprehensive law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23541	Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by MP Jadranko Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Would you like a word, Mr. Savior? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23542	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the President-in-Office, in Article 59(2) following the word "differently established" are added the words "with mandatory respect to the principle of reciprocity". The New Serbia MP club submitted this amendment in order to define the principle of reciprocity here clearly. The reason for this amendment is – our citizens should be able to establish associations under the same conditions in those countries from which the founders of the association based on our territory come. What is the purpose of this amendment? In practice, in Article 59, the final part states that the provisions of this law relating to registration in the register and the work of the association apply also to the registration and operation of representations, offices and other organisational forms of foreign or international non-governmental non-governmental association established in the territory of the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as: the representation of a foreign association), if the law or international contract is not otherwise established. The reasons for why this amendment is not accepted is that the principle of reciprocity can only be applied in cases where a particular issue is not regulated by domestic or international regulations, i.e. concluded bilateral or multilateral contracts. Also, the European Convention on the Recognition of the Legal Subsibilities of International NGOs, as well as the binding recommendations of the Council of Europe, do not set reciprocity as a condition for registering the representation of a foreign association in another country. In the last position of this proposal, the law also mentions international agreements and laws. I don't see any reason why we can't establish the principle of reciprocity, so our citizens have the possibility, on the same principle, to appear as the founders of the association. That is the meaning of the amendment and this amendment should have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23543	Thank you. Mr. Milan Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23544	Madam President, during the period when you were not in the Hall of Chairman Gordana Komic I asked twice to provide us with the presence of the legislator's representative, so that we could explain the amendments in a valid manner and have some communication with him. I think these amendments are very important. So I have twice insisted on the presence of a proposing representative. I didn't get the answer. So please, because it is obvious that Mrs Comic will not hear the voice of the MPs, to ensure the presence of the proposing representatives so that we can participate properly in the further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23545	Thank you. I have information that Mr. Secretary is on his way to the O.R. I'm expecting him any minute now. Please, Mr. Secretary will be here soon. Please, be quiet. National MP Slobodan Vukovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above article 60. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23546	Gentlemen of Parliament, the SRS Parliament Club has proposed to its amendments that all provisions relating to foreign associations be deleted from the draft Association Law. It is our position that foreign associations should not be subject to this law. I have submitted an amendment proposing to delete Article 60 of Article 1 which says that a representative of a foreign association can act on the territory of the Republic of Serbia after enrolment in the Register of Foreign Associations run by the Agency as a trusted job. The government has decided to reject this amendment of mine, as well as any other amendments submitted to members 59 to 68 relating to foreign associations. The explanation is the same among all – calling for recommendations from the Council of Europe, the European Convention on the Recognition of Legal Subsidism to International NGOs, and ultimately it is said that there is a legitimate interest to regulate this issue in a way that will enable the competent state authorities, through regular records of all foreign associations’ representations and their functioning, to give real insight into the work and operation and the right of supervision, as well as in the case of domestic associations. This first part of the argument is somehow possible to accept. There, it must be, the Council of Europe's recommendation, said in the European Convention, and all of this should be incorporated into our legislation, as Serbian authorities dream of entering Europe with their eyes open. But when it comes to this second part of being said to allow for the right of supervision, I really don't know who might believe it. The People's MPs of the SRS certainly don't. As my fellow Serbian radical Mr. Mijaljevic said in principle, foreign NGOs come, turn the school around somewhere, bring a few computers, and place them in front of the board that they did it. It's their mechanism to protect against surveillance. When they make money to buy someone, all surveillance stories fall into the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23547	Thank you. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on a proposal from the SRS, and on the basis of Article 147. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I submit an amendment to the draft law on associations. My amendment reads: “Article 60(2) is deleted. ” My argument is brief and clear – the SRS believes that foreign associations should not be subject to this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Serbia we have many associations and we do not need associations from other countries, or foreign associations. What are the associations run by Natasa Kandic and Sonja Biserko? Where are they financed from? From foreign countries. We don't need associations like that. This association law isn't good. There's a lot of abuse. Anyone can form an association, even underage children. Associations serve you as an attack on individuals, personalities, political parties, for the destruction of institutions across Serbia. One third of Serbian citizens belong to some associations, all sports teams are formed as associations of citizens; union associations, political parties. The previous law on associations wasn't good for you either, and it's not good for you either. That is why the Serbian Radical Party has submitted 70 amendments to improve such a bad law. You'd better pull him out of the procedure. And don't confuse citizens with these laws anymore. You are not interested in workers, how many workers across Serbia are left without a job, how many factories go under bankruptcy or their gates close. Our laws used to be copied by countries in Europe, and today we import European laws that apply to our standards and our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23549	Thank you. National MP Branimir Djokic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic, submitted the title above article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 61. Proposal for an Association Act with a proposal to delete Article 2 in this Article. Article 61 The draft association law refers to the registrar of foreign associations. The experiences we have experienced over the past twenty years with foreign associations tell us to look at each side of the association with a dose of caution. We understand that a large number of international organisations are doing what is in line with the generally accepted principles everywhere in the world, but we must be aware that a large number of foreign associations in Serbia will establish their branches in the framework of strategic interests primarily of the Western countries, as they are most founded in Serbia. The state should first check the history of the association in the country of origin, the biography of the founders and other leaders of the association, the way of financing, operations in other countries, etc. before registering a foreign association in Serbia and issuing a free operation. I say that for a reason, because later on, when those associations complete their mission and get lost, it turns out their tracks lead to the Pentagon, to the CIA or to some other service. In the last two decades, we have heard a statement, a statement from such associations in Serbia, which satanicised the Serbian people, who mocked Serbian victims and praised the criminals who killed Serbs. Unfortunately for us and for Serbia's shame, in this dirty business, they participated, for a pile of dollars, and for some members of the Serb people. In the end, I would say that the best method for controlling work and registering foreign associations in Serbia is the method used by Russia, and can only be described in two words – sharp and rigorous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23551	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted an amendment proposing that the title above article 62 be deleted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23552	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS Group refers to the area of the content of the register of foreign associations. The amendment has requested that the title above this Article 62 be made. The draft law on associations shall be deleted. Therefore, it is that the name and a shortened name of foreign associations are entered in the register of foreign associations, the state in which a foreign association is established, the headquarters of the association, the address of the seat of the representativeship – all that the SRS sees as one of the essential problems in such a bill. Because it is clear that among foreign associations already operating in the Republic of Serbia, a number of them, truth be told, have activities aimed at providing some kind of humanitarian assistance or establishing co-operation in the field of promotion of scientific or cultural ties, however, we have also witnessed the fact that these same associations that have a different objective under the cover of various activities are doing exactly what is supposed to prevent this bill, which is to prevent activities that are contrary to the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that this concept of the Law on Associations, which also relies on state administration laws and general administrative procedures, as well as the fact that the Minister is in charge of the affairs of the administration, will not adequately respond to all the challenges that can cause the fact of the association, particularly foreign ones, and that is one of our cruel objections to the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23553	National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 62nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23554	Unlike the Russian Federation, which has experienced economic, social and moral recovery under the leadership of Vladimir Putin, and now President Medvedev, our country unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, is in the protectorate, hidden or open. Some time ago, ahead of the adoption of a law on NGOs, which had three readings in the Russian State Duma, Bill Bouring, a British lawyer from the Russian Federation, was deported because the Russian State Service found that he worked for the British Intelligence Service. This did not go through secret diplomatic routes, as it usually ends in the world, but the state-owned Russian television presented and exposed the alleged NGO under whose name Boring appeared. Ladies and gentlemen, as members of the Committee on Defence and Security a few months ago, we received a response from Director Sasa Vukadinovic to act in Serbia so-called "BIA" through a report on the work of the BIA. NGOs, sides, which are registered here and which have direct connections to certain political and spy organisations. I asked a question about the specific names of people who are in direct contact with the British intelligence service, with the CIA and those who are working on the decommissioning of our country's national tissue. Of course, none of it was, Director Vukadinovic gave no answers. This proposal also allows this member of the law to allow the smooth functioning of these foreign NGOs through the application of the reciprocity of international agreements, bilateral and conventions of the Council of Europe. The question now arises as to who controls them financially and who will prevent them from spreading anti-Serbian hysteria, which is their role, such as today mentioned Natasha Kandic, Sonja Biserko and other Serb haters, and how in the future, when a law like this is passed, whose article in 62 is not acceptable to the SRS, as well as the law model itself, will suppress that phenomenon that goes to the arms and the Shiptar Separatists, and those who would separate the AP Vojvodina and those who would like the Serb people to continue to feel, because such politics and such opinions create so-called opinions. NGOs, guilt, and in fact, it's the most suffering people in this area. So you should think about what this is really about. About accepting something that comes from EU countries, which don't have any problems like we have... I should also remind you of a recent event, i.e. the disclosure of GNI agents, who also acted under the patronage of some NGOs; they clearly admitted to their parliament before their parliament that their role was to observe what was done in Kosovo and Metohija, our occupied southern province. Then they found that Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj were the organisers of drug trafficking, weapons, people and direct inducers of separatist and terrorist activity in our southern province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23555	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23556	Your Honor, I'm calling for article 105. The Rules of Procedure, which concerns maintaining order at the session. In the first position, it is said that it is the order at the meeting of the National Assembly that is the former president of the National Assembly. We need to get information where the minister is, because according to the electronic system, he's in the O.R. If you pay careful attention, and you don't have to pay attention, just look at the minister's place, his card testifys to his presence. Again, when you look visually at the chair, you see it's gone. We need to resolve this dilemma. He, by electronic system, is in this room and with full right, a man can say that he wasn't in Bodrum, but that he was in the O.R. all day today. On the other hand, he's not present. Not to mention that this is a really important law, that almost all the parliamentary groups have submitted amendments and that we do not have a talker about this law, which we can defend our amendments to. The elemental matter of respect for the Parliament's dignity is that the minister appears. Please do something.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23557	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23558	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Milan Markovic has injured Article 122. The Rules of Procedure, which says the participants in the session are obliged to use the identification card and carry the same when leaving the gym. Namely, you are familiar with the new mode of work and the system of identification, how the MPs... First, once again at the end of today's work day, since we're going to end this, after all that's happened, let's explain to the citizens that it's not true that there are certain places in certain parliamentary units where MPs should sit. It's the same with the ministers. But this chip here shows the data, so that's how his card stays here. Then it would be necessary, Madam President, to give the measure, in accordance with Article 122, the minister who left the card. The service will do its job. But apparently, he does not want to respect the National Assembly. After all, Milan Markovic is famous for voting in the "Bodrum affair" instead of his co-worker who was then 1,000 or 1,500km away from Belgrade. Warn him not to abuse his identification card the way he did it in the "Bodrum affair".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23559	My colleagues, you're absolutely right. We don't officially have a representative of the government. However, he will be familiar with all the details of what we are doing here. I'm asking for a little more patience. Today, all we're going to do is end this law. Here, there may be a minister... I'm asking for a little more patience. I have information that the minister is on his way to the assembly. I don't have any new information. It's probably in traffic. Please, Mr. Nikolic, go ahead, but not twice in the same article.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23560	Believe me, I wouldn't let myself, even if Mrs. Comic presides. I shouldn't have let that happen. I refer to Article 113, which states: “The provisions of this Rules of Procedure concerning the session of the National Assembly apply to all other participants in the session, in addition to the Members of the People’s Parliament, as appropriate to the meetings of the Committee and other working bodies of the National Assembly. “ So this card has to be taken out. It's just that the minister can't... No, wait, you're not... It's not right. We have authorized faces. This was to be done by the Secretary of Parliament, not by an unidentified face. I apologize to you, but it's not your job to take credit cards. Now we've removed this irregularity in an unlicensed way, but it doesn't matter. It would be good to know if the minister is on his way so we can calculate when he gets here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23561	Gentlemen, this card is not for quorum, you know it well. It serves absolutely and exclusively for electronic communication, to get word. So there are no objections... does not increase the number of present, absent. Mr. Minister had an obligation in the government. He's coming very quickly and I'm asking you to continue our work. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23562	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, it is very difficult, Madam President, for MPs to present what they have proposed to the amendments, and that the legislator, or the minister who defends the law, is not present. The purpose of this debate on details is to try to convince the minister, and it is not a rare practice for the minister to accept the amendment at the session itself. I have submitted to Article 62 an amendment to add a new position 2, which reads: "A foreign association has an obligation to update registered membership once a year and to submit a register of changes in data relating to the erasure and registration of new members. “ The reasons for this amendment: “The validity of decisions of the association assembly can only be established if the association regularly registers the removal and registration of new members in the register. It is therefore necessary for such records to exist in the register to be updated at least once a year in the period when it is the obligation of the association to maintain the annual assembly. “ I think this amendment submitted by the New Serbia Parliament Club should have been accepted. If no one with strict domestic associations has already been accepted, then there was room to accept an amendment concerning foreign associations. Among other things, in the previous discussion, I said that it is necessary to respect reciprocity, because the record of the presence of foreign persons in our country is being conducted in the MUP, and when we talk about associations, I think that, because of the various possible abuses, this amendment should have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23563	National MP Radica Jocic has tabled an amendment proposing that the title above article 63 be deleted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the proposal of the Association Law, I have tabled an amendment to Article 63(1) to be deleted. In order to clarify, despite the fact that Mr. Minister is not here, this is about enrolment in the register of foreign associations, which is based on the application for registration of foreign associations. The area has not been defined to date in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, so many foreign associations have benefited, abused the fact that the law does not regulate and define it. Even though we have a negative experience with these NGOs and associations, we are now trying to legalise all their irregularities and allow them to register legally, enlist in the register of the association and thus have the protection provided by the state of Serbia. I don't have to mention the evil the Serbian people experienced precisely from these NGOs and foreign associations that worked in Serbia to harm and to the expense of Serbian citizens, accusing Serbia of being a vandal country, a country of horror, in which police and military are doing such things. We often had the opportunity to hear of both Natasa Kandić and Sonja Biserko and similar organizations. I call on the minister to accept this amendment, because it is unreasonable to legalise such associations as Natasa Kandic or Sonja Biserko, and that they also have legal protection for the Serbian state. Like this, at least let them swim empty. If this member turned down, then they would be mixing into blanks, not having legal protection for what they do, and doing everything exactly at the heart of Serbia. Here, otherwise, it is defined that this registration can only be taken away if they generate profits, but if they do not create legal damage, then there is no registration to be taken away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23565	National MP Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment to Article 63. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23566	A member of 63 refers to foreign associations’ representations, in particular to the application for registration. But what is much more important than this particular member is are we able to edit this area through this bill? That's the central question. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia not only enables us to, condition, but in one part and requires us to regulate the way in which we exercise rights, i.e. freedom of association, by law. When it comes to strangers, we can't handle it. Because within the framework of freedom of association there are several elements – the freedom of a larger number of people to join together around an idea, but this association is a means, the goal is to work. This activity is politically, trade unionally or otherwise socially beneficial, socially acceptable, but, in any case, action in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to foreigners, we cannot define their freedom of association, because they have already realised it there in a country. The question of the registration of their organisational unit, or representation, is here and then we come only to the other part – it is their function. This action, which may be in accordance with their constitution, may be contrary to the interests and objectives that are being achieved with us. That's what this is about. Therefore, when it comes to representations of foreign or international NGOs, we need to be overly defined and determined according to the activities of these organisations and associations in our territory. As you have set out in this bill, you can register their representation here for each association abroad and you have no interest in their activity at all, and it may be contrary to the interests of this people. What's it worth? How can a man tell you when you're the cups of those organizations from abroad? Because every organization from abroad is pro-European, pro-Atlantic, and you're scurrying pro-European, pro-Atlantic, and you have to accept and accept all of that. Why is it important to determine their work, to arrange their work? Because they can become a transfer of funds from abroad to finance their exposures here, which are formally domestic. It can also be in the form of fans of Queen England's birthday, it can also be in the form of American flag lovers, it can also be an association of lovers of French, English. You do not enter into action, you have accepted for granted that their activity is out there, in the UK or in another country. That's why we say special law is needed. It's not a law that only regulates registration, it's an act of action that can be allowed here. Then we have a situation... Not to remind you of these, in a people hated, NGOs. What's it worth? The minister's been on his way for an hour now to sort something out here. What would he solve, he, a lecturer at the Department of Security? You can tell it's a spy code, you can tell. Of course we can't vote for this concept of the bill, because you took their work abroad for granted. Someone from abroad can legitimately advocate, Marty Ahtisaari, he is, however, a member of one of these organizations, with Lord Carrington. Register their department here... The international crisis group, yes, an international NGO, is heartily favouring independent Kosovo. You can register, according to this law, their representation and that they legally destroy Serbia. I can't say here neither Sonja Licht, Sonja Biserko, this one, or that one, that I don't forget that Svilanovic, Socrates. That's the problem. I'm not surprised by these resistances from the Democratic Party, I'm surprised by the SPS people. How do you let them frame you for this? Well, you were haunted. Not only did they write lawsuits, but they cut the kids.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23567	The 6rd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Christin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, who is on his way... But he seems to be coming across the bridge that goes across Ade Gypsies. So some citizens promised and he thought he had to, just to get to the National Assembly from the government, as you said. In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 63, where I request that Article 63 paragraph 3 be deleted because the SRS considers that foreign associations should not be subject to this law. Why am I saying this? These foreign associations have been well known to us since 19 - 20 years ago; these foreign associations have come from Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Kosovo and Metohija, and I don't think it's over yet; they are now in the AP Vojvodina. Therefore, the SRS has a clear view. We don't trust that side of the association, because these are CIA associations, "mia" and so on. We will certainly not vote for this law, because we believe that foreign associations should not be introduced into this law, but into a new law, which will be defined as a register of foreign associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23569	National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic submitted to the 63rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for an Association Act on Article 63, which reads - Section 4. is deleted. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Serbian Radical Party believes foreign associations should not be subject to the law. In Serbia, there are associations that have been operating for a long time, associations that protect the culture of our people, associations that operate on the basis of professions, professional associations of engineers and technicians, sports associations, hunting associations and many others. But the question arises how does the state view many associations that break the state and work against the state's interests? Does anyone know exactly how many NGOs there are in Serbia? According to some estimates, there are about 3,000. The question arises who pays them, what is the source of funding and what is their role? The biggest problem of the bill is the way of funding NGOs. I have no illusion that this government can resolve only by this law the financing and operation of foreign associations, which have entered deep into the functioning of the state. Serbian citizens rightly wonder how it is possible for Serbia to look favorably at the functioning of foreign organisations, as it is possible that someone from the government has not opposed an organisation that is working to break the state through NGOs. There are many goals of these organisations that carry out and create public relations, carry out civil, military operations, affect the country's policy. Let us remember the organisation "Resistance" and its similar NGOs, which in Serbia were burning and burning and which should be looked after because they are well organized in this operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23571	Thank you. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23572	The esteemed presidents, colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens who watch us, because I have to speak to you because the minister is gone, and maybe he's watching this transmission somewhere, it's clear that there are political forces in this assembly that, when said, the stranger thinks, the enemy, especially if he's a foreigner from the West. These are those who remember with nostalgia a time when it was a more expensive hotel for foreigners, when it was more expensive for the foreigners, etc. But, fortunately, those times have passed. And citizens' associations, let's say, of Saddam's oil lovers, although there are no Saddams, should be registered, and this side of the association and these domestics that have been formed, such as "Face" – this is the association of citizens formed in the House of the Army, which is why he is glad, unlike someone formed abroad or in the hateful West. All of them should be registered. Our amendment and all amendments refer to where they will all be registered, both these foreigners and these domestic, Dvori, acre and others. In my explanation, which I began to read before I was rudely interrupted, I proved that a member of the law that says that associations register at the Agency for Economic Registers is anti-constitutional. It's simply a matter of human law and the Constitution is applied directly. It is clear that the register must be run by a state authority and it is clear that the Agency for Economic Registers is not a state body. Now, imagine, the Agency for Business Registers comes up with an association and says – in our programme we advocate that gypsies (not Roma) cannot work in the state service. Now someone at the Business Registers Agency is going to be able and aware of whether or not they're going to register it. That is why we insist that it be in the jurisdiction of the unjustly absent Minister Markovic, because it is a state body. Thank God, this government has so many ministries and so many civil servants, and it's so expensive for this country that I really don't think it should avoid what is his obligation. Since the registration of the Association at the Business Registers Agency is a violation of the Constitution, we move on. Article 26 of that bill, which provides for this, and all of our amendments refer to that member in fact, affecting the essence of the implementation of the Constitution of a guaranteed right of free association, given that the Agency for Economic Registers, unlike the authorities of the State Administration, is not an expert training for the management of the Association Register, and I have just shown why it is not professional. It's just that these two jobs are different. International legal standards on the protection of the freedom of association, which are, among other things, prescribed by the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, apply to this Convention, and to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, not to economic operators, but to citizens' associations. In addition, although the explanation of the proposal states that this solution is more economical and efficient, you can think, now listen to how more economical and efficient it is – keeping a register of associations by the Agency will certainly collect the registration process and thus, and that is important, make it difficult to exercise the right to free association, i.e. to influence the essence of its achievement. Simply, those who have money, which are probably those from the West, will not have a problem, but those who do not have money, such as the SOS Phone, will have a problem. The SOS phone may be the oldest association of citizens, and these days it is calling for help because it cannot pay for space. All the people there are doing volunteer work, they can't pay for the phone or the space, and the state can't do that job that's been doing this wonderful association of citizens for years because of what's going on with domestic violence. On the other hand, Rasim Ljajic is funding the right movement, and the Serbian Chetnik Movement, and I don't know how many other associations of citizens. Okay, when you socialists find Draža, they'll only tell you. According to data published on the Agency's website, registration fees for that agency amount to between 2,040 and 10,200 dinars, for the change of data from 1.560 to 9,600, for the registration of other data from 420 to 5100 dinars, for the release of copies from the register of 1,560 dinars. In addition, an administrative tax of 1,750 dinars is also paid for a company established. Contrary to the practice so far, according to which only the administrative fee, which has been regulated by law, is also charged by the Agency for services and administrative fees for the state body's registration, by the ministry responsible for the job (we think it should be this absent minister Markovic). That is why this will collect the registration of the Association of Citizens, which is not in the spirit of the Constitution for the Protection of Human Rights and the right to association. All have in mind only a few organizations whose bosses are mentioned here, and it is forgotten that there are no 3,000 in Serbia, but perhaps over 10,000 NGOs and citizens' associations. They'll be damaged by this. Here, as if someone wanted to continue to threaten the freedom of association, which in principle and that law on political parties was seriously violated. When assessing these costs to be incurred by the Association of Citizens when registering, if this provision remains, it should also be taken into account the provision of Article 87. The bill, which refers to the acquisition of the register of social organisations and associations of citizens, subjects, archives and registration materials created in the work of keeping registers in these former ministries that have so far done so. All of this must be paid by these associations of citizens, as well as by the obligation of the association to bring the statutes and other general acts in line with the provisions of this law. The provisions of Article 26 shall apply. The proposals are contrary to Article 11. The European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights which prescribe that any restriction on freedom of association must be, under one, prescribed by law; under two, it must serve a legitimate objective and under three, shall be proportionate to the legitimate objective it serves. The provisions of Article 26 shall apply. The proposals do not meet the third of those criteria, because from all this I have said it is obvious that the economic and efficiency in the process of keeping an association register cannot be achieved by violating the Constitution of guaranteed freedom of association. Consistent with the provisions of Article 18. The Constitution, constitutional provisions on human and minority rights are interpreted in accordance with the applicable international standards of human and minority rights, as well as the practice of international institutions overseeing their implementation. It should be noted that, according to the Liberal-Democratic Party, for all these reasons, no other member state of the Council of Europe has such a sui generis solution for enrolment in the register of the association. In all Member States, the registration in the register of the association shall be governed by the court, the competent ministry or the other body of the state administration. We also note that the provisions of this member who prescribes that citizens' associations are registered at the Business Registers Agency were not subject to the opinion of the Council of Europe experts, given that this solution that is in this law, in this version of the law that is now before us, was not in the draft law that was withdrawn, I think, somewhere in December. In my own words, I couldn't say as nicely as it says in this explanation. Because of citizens and all those who are concerned about the threat of rights in this country, which is why there are (and there will) NGOs, including those from abroad, I am convinced that Minister Markovic, that here, has changed his mind and accepted this amendment. Unfortunately, he is gone, and I was hoping that in the day for the vote, if the government accepts this amendment, the government would show that it wants to preserve the existing level of human rights and civil Serbia, which was largely violated in the previous two or three decades. Just because of what was happening in Serbia, because of the crime, robbery and destruction, wars and everything, and because of the attempt to stick his head in the sand and to say – turkey dots are not valid, that was, we have reconciled, our two parties have signed a reconciliation declaration, which is why and because of these attempts, the NGO will, I believe, continue to strengthen; that is why there will be you from abroad who, to say, will teach us the order, when we are not already able. How's all this going to end? It's simple, the way everything around us ended. Serbia may be an isolated island, but that was possible in the 1990s. Now, at the end of the first decade of the 21st century, that won't be possible. Those who, as I say, see in every stranger a hateful enemy should explain to their voters why gasoline in this country is the most expensive and the worst. It's precisely because everyone's hands are here, both on this side and on the other hand, raised to give or give to foreigners of the Serbian state monopoly. Gentlemen, if that's the case, then don't make a difference between strangers, but be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23573	Thank you. The 63rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Mrs. Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23574	Thank you, Madam President. I would ask you to check that the minister, since he's been traveling for two hours to the Assembly, hasn't gone to that building across the street, to King Milan, has been in the O.R. and is now waiting for us all to come. Indeed, his journey takes a long time. I have submitted an amendment to Article 63. The title above Article 63 is ‘Application for registration and registration of a representative of a foreign association in a register of foreign associations’. This member is part of Chapter Three, which bears the title "Foreign Association". So this part regulates all obligations, rights and everything concerning registration and registration for the entry of foreign associations in Serbia. The amendment itself provides for a new position to be added in Article 63 following Article 3, which reads: “Foreign associations can only be established in accordance with Articles 2 and 3 of this Act. ” We don't think that's exactly regulated enough in the article itself, but if you adopt this amendment and enter this new position 4, that's going to be more specific. For example, I will read Article 3, paragraph 2, which reads: “The objectives and functioning of the association cannot be directed at the violent destruction of the constitutional order and the violation of the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” That attitude goes on, I'm not going to read everything, not waste any time. I think that now that there is a re-registration in front of some associations of citizens, if the agency in which these citizens' associations will register will stick to the letters of this law, many (and some domestic) NGOs will not be able to be registered in the register. We are witnessing that, say, about a year ago, a book came out, whose printing and publishing was paid by a local NGO, and on the front page of that book was Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. That's quite a reason why this NGO never enters any register again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23575	The 6rd amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, and on the basis of Article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to the draft Association Law on Article 63, paragraph 5, which is proposed to delete the position. As we have pointed out on several occasions, we are not against foreign associations, but we believe that because of the negative functioning of some foreign associations we have a lot of right to ask that the work of foreign associations must be more seriously regulated and treated, but also controlled. Our experience with foreign associations and NGOs over the past 20 years has not been very positive. The fact is that foreign associations are not well-intentioned, and their influence on the behaviour of our institutions is enormous. By means of all the money they spend through all sorts of, allegedly humanitarian or other, NGOs, they achieve their goals in our space. The government rejected the amendment, as did other amendments to the Serbian Radical Party. All our amendments have been submitted with the intention of obtaining one quality text of the law, and especially these amendments concerning the erasure of members who define the work of the association in our territory. For all these reasons, we propose that foreign associations be kicked out of this bill and treated by a special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23577	Thank you. National MP Dusan Maric submitted an amendment proposing that the title above article 64 be deleted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23578	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS has no objection to the existence of foreign associations in Serbia, however, we believe that this matter should be regulated in a more serious way, by a special law. For this reason, we have proposed to delete all these members in the bill, including the title above article 64. I will refer to one language gap in Article 3 of this proposal. It reads: "The objectives and functioning of the association cannot be directed at the violent collapse of the constitutional order". I suggested erasing the word “violently, ” for two reasons. The first reason - one state must simply not legally foresee the possibility of any violent or non-violent destruction of its own constitutional order. It is, at the very least, the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Second, the term “violent destruction” is not acceptable. It's a matter of language violence. If you say – no violent demolition is allowed, the conclusion is that non-violent demolition is allowed. There's no such thing as nonviolent demolition. Rusting in itself means applying force. When you say "unviolently destroy," it's like saying "unviolently kill," nonviolently rape, nonviolently beating, nonviolently pulling someone's ears. It's just not possible. I'm asking you, can something collapse from itself without using force? Something to be torn down without someone applying force, that's not possible. I am telling you that there is only one possible way out of this language violence, and there is only one possible way out of this violence, which is that you accept this amendment that I have submitted to Article 3 and that you are erasing this term "violently", so that this member of the law would read: "The objectives and the functioning of the association cannot be directed towards the collapse of the constitutional order", which would be consistent with common sense, logic, spelling and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23579	National MP Momir Markovic submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it was announced that this law would also enter the procedure, I may have been naive, but I expected that law would finally bring the sector called the non-governmental sector into order. When the bill came before us MPs, it was clear to me that I was naive. I expected this bill to make a clear distinction between NGOs that have existed for centuries in this country and operated in the nation, but may have been slightly different called, not called NGOs (i.e. the Youth Mountains, the Red Cross, various voluntary fire companies and other associations that were mainly involved in voluntary work and funded, possibly, from voluntary contributions), and NGOs, or en-ji-o, how you like to beat them, which are directly funded from abroad, by Soros, the Shiptarian lobby, intelligence services, the Hague prosecution, etc., whose activity was mainly subversive, anti-national, anti-national. Let me remind you of the action of the "woman in Black", "Resistance", which exported the "Buldozer Revolution" to Ukraine, Belarus, Georgia. Somewhere this procedure was completed, and in Belarus it is still going on; of five, how many have gone, one has returned to them, and four have been raising the revolution there for ten years. Let me remind you that he is the same president of Soroshe's fund and, say, "Political Extraorities", financed by Soros then, and now probably Mrs. Sonja Licht. Let me remind you that Women in Black have been slapping people here, 150 meters from this congregation, slapping refugees, 72-year-olds! Let me remind you of all the misdemeanors that have been conducted in this country by certain associations, mostly from abroad, under the auspices of NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23581	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title above article 65 be deleted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 65 states that foreigners employed by foreign associations are only subject to regulations governing the movement and stay of foreigners, and that citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are employed in foreign representations are subject to the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. What conclusion can we draw from such a provision? This means that all the regulations of the Republic of Serbia are applied to our citizens working in foreign associations' offices, from the Constitution and beyond. When it comes to foreign citizens, only the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners applies. Such regulation is absolutely not enough. Does this mean that foreigners working in foreign representations are immune from criminal law? Or that they're immune from some other legal regulations? Here it was supposed to stand to apply to foreigners, in addition to regulations on the movement and residence of foreigners, and all other relevant regulations. For example, foreigners cannot be subject to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs because foreign citizens do not have the right to vote in the Republic of Serbia, but the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia can be applied. If foreigners achieve some profitable activity in the Republic of Serbia, appropriate tax regulations can be applied. A good part of the legal order can be applied to foreigners working in foreign representations. You have applied only one law, the Law on the movement and residence of foreigners. You've practically introduced some sort of immunity of foreign citizens in relation to all other regulations. Does this mean that foreigners can freely commit a crime in the Republic of Serbia, commit offences or other acts that are absolutely forbidden to domestic citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia? This regulation that you have provided for foreign citizens is absolutely insufficient. Practically, you give foreigners a free hand so that in the Republic of Serbia they can do whatever they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23583	The amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic to Article 64. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević wants a word, and Srdjan Milivojevic also answered. Mr. Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23584	President, if you agree who has a word, I'd like to use my two minutes and bring the minister closer to our position. I see he hasn't been there in the last two hours. Maybe he didn't realize everything we wanted to tell him. It's about associations that can open up strangers here again. We have explained that we are not against foreign associations, but that we have regulated their work legally, their operation, much more seriously than is foreseen by this bill. The experiences we have had in the past twenty years teach us and do not allow us to repeat the mistakes that have been happening, because the consequences of these people's actions, the foreigners who have stood behind and worked in these foreign associations, are truly terrible and catastrophic, from Slovenia to Kosovo. Some masked themselves as religious organizations, some as peace organizations. You have the case of the famous William Walker, an observer, who was supposed to bring peace here, that is, in Kosovo was meant to bring peace, and what he did caused the bombing, which literally changed geography, and the good work and demographicism of the Serbian state. You also have that famous arrest, in 2002, Mr. John David Najbor with Mr. Momcilo Perisic at the Saric Motel; he came to Serbia as a representative of a religious organisation, a pent-axed sect, as their lecturer on a new vow, back in 1985, and in 2002 he was arrested as director of the CIA for the Balkans. All of these procedures, both on the one hand and on the other, do not allow us any moment of relaxation in the treatment, observation and regulation of the work of certain foreign associations and foreigners working here. That's why we suggest that their work be framed by a special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23585	National MP Marko Milenkovic submitted to the 65th amendment. The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23586	Dear President, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, I want to use the time I have within those 15 minutes. I'd like to draw attention to the minister, or I'd like to question him here a little bit in front of the citizens who are watching the transfer, since they were Minister of Trade and Minister of Finance here, and he's the Minister of Local Self-Government, that the formation of an association of robbed citizens is under way because of the price of gas dictated by the state. Dear citizens of Serbia, by the day before yesterday, I was saying that the price is $290 per thousand cc's of gas, and the latest news is that the price from today is $230. I note that today on the websites of various agencies we were able to read the explanations from "Srbigas" that the price of oil jumped to $60 for a barrel. Let me remind you, both you and all the citizens of Serbia, and over 200,000 households that are heating on gas and countless economic operators, that at the time the price of gas was raised, 60% of the price of barrels of oil was $145. Mr. Minister, since I really do think, regardless of some silly tones in today's debate, that you are a very serious and saving man, I would like you to answer what you're going to do, because I haven't been able to get an answer to the question that I asked the Government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy on a regular basis for two months. Here, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, the gas user as a heating energy source, I tried to urinate some ministers to give at today's cabinet session at least some too much explanation. Imagine, we got an explanation from "Serbiagas" that the price of oil has increased! Now the citizens of Serbia... You can read the comments of Serbian citizens at forum B92. Out of courtesy, I'm not going to repeat it here, I'm just going to remind you of one comment – does anyone think that fellow citizens really are sheep for a haircut or are they crazy? Well, don't drive gas trucks, gas coming through the pipeline. What difference does it make to the price of oil? After all, I repeat, the moment the price of gas for citizens jumped 60% of the price of barrels of oil was $145, today it's $60. The director of "Serbigas" still mentions gas collection. Instead of cutting that price and paying the citizens back for the last four months, because the price has already been $ 290 for three months, plus the billing costs, talk about an increase in the price of gas. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to do what's in your jurisdiction, what you can do. These people live in local self-government, and households have invested five-six thousand euros in a secondary network. A tax on this 100 euros... All people paid fairly and now someone, using a monopoly, apologize to the auditorium, this honorable home here and all the citizens of Serbia, I have no other word than a robbery. What can they do? Do you recommend, would you put yourself in charge of this gang of robbed citizens, I don't know what kind of energy you're warming up to? I'm sorry there's no colleagues here from Vojvodina, especially LSV. I want to remind you all that they almost brought down the government, that they were talking about gasmafia, that they would do what I don't know about the government for robbing 60% of citizens. We've had a good winter and nobody's talking about it anymore. I think that we in New Serbia have insisted on this, this is directly about the citizens' interest, their pockets, their home budgets, which are strained by the global economic crisis and your economic policy. I think it's the duty of every minister who comes here to Parliament... Believe that thousands of citizens... I believe all parties participating in parliament are receiving a letter from Serbian citizens, especially Vojvodina, where I think more than 170,000 households have introduced gas as a heating energy. This really is an amazing fact! I don't know why you don't. Well, you'd get that political point. Why would Serbian citizens, or those gas-heating hosts, be victims of some of the relations in the government? As for the price of gasoline and petroleum products, there is a formula to determine that price. Here, we see that again for about four or five dinars to collect both oil and gasoline in the middle of the agricultural season, but there is some regulation, some law that determines the price of gasoline or oil, whether we like it or not. What is the regulation, what is the formula for determining the price of gas for the household? Pure monopoly and force on the citizens. This is a robbery. Please stand up nicely and say your opinion on it. I'd like to thank you in advance, Mr. Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23587	The word has Minister Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23588	Mr. Markicevic, I fully understand the problem you're talking about, but understand me, I don't usually talk about things that I'm not competent to talk about. I can promise you that I will try to answer your parliamentary question as soon as possible. I'll contact the Government Secretariat to see why you didn't get the answer. I think every MP should get an answer to the question he asked, but don't put me in such a position to comment on things that aren't part of my work and I'm not professional.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23589	National MP Vlad Milojkovic submitted an amendment to article 66, which proposed that the title be deleted above article 66. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23590	Madam President, I'd like to take advantage of the minister's presence, and also take advantage of my 15 minutes as an authorised representative. Mr. Minister, here we are, we have completed this second "half-time" work on the Bill on Citizens' Associations. In this second part of the work in particular, and based on the members of the proposed law, we are obliged to give an additional view of this area of human life and work. We want both you and the citizens of Serbia to give our vision, explanations and information on how serious this area is and that it has not started to be studied and offered to citizens since the quasi-democracy appeared on Serbia's political scene. Given that many colleagues have spoken more euphorically about the Association Law, referring primarily to theory, I think of colleagues from the ruling coalition, I will refer to theoretical historical positions of civil society development and the NGO sector and citizens' associations as its greatest element. Risking being dry and monotonous, I am obliged to give our vision and knowledge of who is everything and how organized associations of citizens, or NGOs, and for what he has used them for, especially after seeing a colleague from the ruling coalition more than positively atomize relationships, as much as we deprive the associations of citizens, and then use the benefits of modern technologies, the Internet, because there are countless notifications of countless sources of funding that are just waiting for us to make us happy with their money for our good. Of course, we are doing this in order to convince the minister and the ruling majority to accept as many of our amendments as possible, because the ruling coalition will certainly not vote "yes" unless the speaker of the assembly gives them a bell, with two shortened bells. In the second half of the 20th century, the term "civil society" entered into everyday political use. It is interpreted in a very broad sense as covering formal and informal associations and movements, organisations that are not governmental and do not belong to the market, which means that they are non-profitable or that their profits are in another plan. During the Cold War, the civil society category was an integral part of the ideological struggle. After the Cold War, it was defined as the main means of globalisation and placed in space between the state and the market. The very term "civil society" is very old. The roots of modern understanding should be sought during the period of abandonment of the feudal way of production and transition to industrial. From a philosophical point of view, the modern concept of civil society came from British doctrine and classical German idealism. That's the case today. Faced with a historic crisis caused by the technological revolution and the defeat of communism, in the absence of a comprehensive theoretical project, some American theorists have discovered civil society as a place in which all values and virtues are harmonised, which should play a key role in the political, economic and social life of the 21st century, within and outside the borders of the states. However, to take a realistic look at this phenomenon and its insight into the era, it is necessary to start from the first theoretical understandings of civil society by great thinkers such as Hobbs, Ferguson, Hegel, to contemporary European and American theorists. The work of Adam Ferguson, "The Essium on the History of Civil Society", published in 1767, had one of the decisive merits of theoretical disclosing the concept of civil society. Adam Ferguson was one of the leading thinkers of the 18th century Enlightenment of Scotland. In his discussions, Ferguson took an unbiased and cold-blooded view of both sides of the medal that shaped modern civilization. What he saw was the paradox of the progress of trade and manufacture, which on the one hand increased personal freedom and security, and on the other hand produced a second-rate structure of a society full of second-rate citizens chasing for worthless things. The starting point of Ferguson's humanistic and moralist position is to accept Aristotle's idea of man as a social animal. Unlike Hobbes, he felt that every man as an individual has a natural tendency to team up and gather into wider human associations that enjoy the society of others. It is related to this and its view of man as fundamental or by the nature of a peaceful animal. He also believed that linguistic exchange and communication played a central role in connecting people. Ferguson concludes that the presence of communicative flows between individuals is a condition for the existence of free civil society. In this regard, Ferguson gave the meaning of civilised society in the broadest sense of that word, societies that differ from savage society by their politics and rule of law, their culture and courtesy. According to Ferguson, civilization is not simply the result of the economic process, but the work of conscious policy regulation. It attaches a special significance to the appearance of modern states. The time of barbarism belongs to the past or at least is reduced to the least, although by the works of the United States and their administrations and what they leave behind we cannot safely conclude and argue. Also, Ferguson believes it is possible to have modern wealth and ancient virtues, which means that in a commercial society interest cannot overcome honor. According to Hegel, the creation of civil society is the work of the modern world. Hegel's system of ethics, social life or normality, as well as the idea of freedom is realized through family, civil society and state. The starting point in this system is an individual, a specific person, a citizen. This is what Mr Krasic has tried to explain to you many times today from a legal point of view. In the belief that the individual bearer of the principle of speciality is also a link to the position of civil liberalism. According to Hegel, individuals are as citizens of the state of a private person, who have their own interest in their own purpose. Various specific and general interests and seeing their dialectic inter-conditional relationship is the first important characteristic of Hegel's understanding of civil society and state relations. Social relations stem from the inner needs of men who form the basis of mutual relations. The term “citizen” refers to all residents of one country, any class or class to be concerned. The Hegel Civil Society sets the ideal state, whose goal is to ensure independence and integrity, to preserve spiritual life. The state is the guardian of the order. Family, as a natural community, rests on spiritual feelings and love. The state rests on reason. The state for Hegel means an ethical and cultural community, politically organized, sovereign, independent of any other community. The state is a form of a rational, civilized life. Civil society is an area of constant conflicts of interest. In its complexity, it contains contrasts that destroy it, such as corruption. We know this example from our society. We're more than swamped by corruption. This complicated situation can only be brought into harmony through the control of civil society and, if necessary, through forced State intervention. We only see the announcement of this country that it will intervene and use its resources given to it and by which it is required to work, but we do not see results. French historian and philosopher, American federalist theorists Tokvil observed civil society through the prism of the formation of American society after the release of the British colonial government. He was impressed by the multitude of civil organisations formed independently of the state. Citizens of America were forced to resist life’s difficulties with their own efforts. The associations formed to improve public security, trade, industry, morals and religion, Tokvil considered. Yet, he sees the danger of such wide freedom, but he feels that it is necessarily evil because it provides security against the dangers of another species. Tokoil believes that there is the most difficult link between political and civil association. Civilian association facilitates political, and vice versa. Of course, NGOs have also entered the UN system, and that is where the basic legal regulations for NGOs are given. The UN founding conference in San Francisco in 1945 introduced NGOs in the international system for the first time in history through a formal act, or UN Charter. For the first time, the term ‘non-governmental organisations’ has been used. In Article 71. The UN Charter is given the right to one of the main authorities, the Economic and Social Council, to take all-out measures in order to consult NGOs dealing with issues entering its jurisdiction. Such measures can also be applied to international organisations and, where there is room, to domestic organisations. After consulting with a UN member, who concerns the area, about 1,200 representatives of NGOs from around the world arrived at a founding conference in San Francisco to pressure their governments to gain more favourable status. Of the 160 US NGOs, US President Truman has included as much as 42 in his official delegation. At its June 1946 meeting, a resolution voted on by 2/3 of those present, established a permanent committee for NGOs, as an auxiliary body of the Economic and Social Council, with the task of considering any request for advisory status and making a proposal to the Council. His members were representatives of the Permanent Security Council and the chairman of the council. The resolution contains four basic principles for obtaining a advisory status: that the objectives of NGOs should be in spirit and in line with the principles of the UN Charter; that the area of engagement should be within the limits of the Economic and Social Council; that the organisation should, in its character, be permanent, with permanent membership; that it has a seat, executive apparatus and bodies competent to make decisions, as well as an authority authorised to represent an organisation on behalf of the whole membership. Today we have a proposal that in our NGOs there are only two, to say, bodies, which are a three-member assembly and one representative; that these members and representatives may be people who have not matured, who are not educated enough, because they do not have a sufficient number of years and thus cannot legally represent their organizations...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23591	You've wasted your time. Thank you. You had 11 minutes and 30 seconds, and I let you go 30 seconds longer. You can't do this anymore. You can, in the context of the amendment, if you have your amendments. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Before I give my word to Mr Mirovic, just to let you know that we will be in direct transmission by 1850 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been submitted to Article 66. It's a bill of law. The amendment is based, in essence, on comparative law, on the federal law of the Russian Federation since 10 January 2006, which provides for changes in several laws of the Russian Federation. It is mainly about laws that were passed at the time of Jelicinian's authority dealing with NGOs and non-profit organisations or territories with a special regime. These 2006 amendments, which are based on our amendments, provide for the refusal to register a subsidiary or representation of a foreign non-governmental organisation, if the objectives, tasks and knowledge of branches of foreign NGOs pose a threat to sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity, national unity, cultural heritage and the national interests of the Russian Federation. Of course, there are still useful solutions in the Russian legislation to be applied in the bill, such as: submitting a detailed report by foreign NGOs on how to finance and use these funds, banning terrorist financing and propagating extremism and, finally, banning government officials from being members of NGOs, as well as the obligation to pay obligations and fees for this type of activity. When we consider all these facts and our amendments, on the one hand, and the bill of association, on the other hand, it is clear that it is incomplete and inappropriate for our reality. That is why I believe that the minister should take these solutions into account from a comparative right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23593	Thank you. Mr. Secretary wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Minister, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23594	It would be a shame if I didn't participate in a discussion like this. What's in Russia, it's completely legitimate from the perspective of the Russian Federation. Mr. Mirovic, at least in my knowledge, is one of the better known opportunities in the Russian Federation and I like to listen because I always hear real, credible information from him. But it is my opinion that, given the development of the NGO sector and our general commitment, in this situation where we are in this situation, it would be inappropriate to accept such solutions. Moreover, I expect that there will also be a liberalisation of certain provisions concerning associations in the Russian Federation in perspective, the possibility of citizens joining together. It would be completely inappropriate for us to, for example, limit some categories of the right to association, given the tradition of association and the goals by which people join us. I don't know, maybe in the Russian Federation, it's a little bit different, it probably does, but I think this whole thing would really be a step backwards, in the direction of a major restrictions on the rights of citizens. Mr. Myalevich, here's a chance for you to add your argument. It was a nice discussion of yours. I liked it. I'm sorry you had to interrupt her, but now you'll be able to continue her somehow. I'm just sorry that you have so much data, that's one pretty broad explanation, used in the function of criticizing this law. I must say, I didn't even find a direct link between what you quoted correctly and the ideas of this law. You talked more about some theories, political theories, state theory, society and state relations, and you mentioned different things, and you touched Hobbs. If you wanted to touch Hobbs in that function, you could have gone a few dozen years ahead and touched Loka, who has a completely different picture and the ability of the state to limit some rights, or maybe Russo, who somehow gave us the theoretical setting of the modern state. Hobbs's position is the theoretical basis for state absoluteism, because Hobbes gave it as a defense of the monarch against the nobles' rebellion, these are the first revolutions in Britain, when, in the first wave of time, Britain lost its crown, while, for example, Locke later defended the right to rebellion, believing in the natural rights and the right of people to rebel when their natural rights were at stake, starting with people joining together, signed this social treaty just to protect the state just as their natural rights were, namely that the state should not touch their natural rights. Every argument is used for the needs of its political goal. I have to say, I wish you'd done more, say, Locom, whose theory is the basis of liberalism, and you're more "tossing" on Hobbes. I don't think in all that talk, Tokville isn't at all... I think his position is more from a relatively specific point of view and a historical context. Anyway, it's been a pleasure, and I enjoyed listening to you. That's the conclusion, but believe me, this law is good, there's no need to change that. Now you have a chance to continue until the end of your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23595	Miss Natasa Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23596	Mr. Secretary, you informed me that you were probably on your cell phone or some TV in the car while you were traveling following up on a part of my exposure. Since I was talking about the Russian Federation and the law adopted in the Russian State Duma, I really don't see how you, as one of the resolute ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, need to make fun of something that is not only a good tradition, but the insistence of the Russian state government, above all the President of Mr Putin, the current prime minister of Russia, to protect what is national, which is in the spirit of the tradition of that people. It's exactly an SRS intensity, only suited to what our people are, and we as a state and as a people have a rich tradition when it comes to NGOs. The fact that from October 5th to this day, by accepting under your laps – in fact, you had the same mentor, the same financier, besides, then State Secretary Madeline Albright admitted it after the five-octobaric coup – those who instrumentalised you to be exclusively pro-Western, that's the goal of your politics and that's your right, but let us as responsible people, who have clearly profiled ideology, the ideology of Serbian nationalism, tell the citizens of Serbia that this so-called. The third sector, NGOs, is not Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko and others, but that we should return to those values, as our Russian brothers have just done, which are deeply founded on us. You do not need to make such a mockery of the exposure of one of the previous speakers. If you wanted to make a good and smart contribution, then you should have called, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the non-deficient traditions and started from the fact that Nemanjeci founded hospitals in Hilandar, Studenica, that Jelena Angusija was one of the beginners of the so-called "Hylandar" hospital. the non-governmental sector (which was not called then) and that the despot Stefan Lazarevic built Manasija and in it a shelter for the sick. Therefore, it is time to understand (I have another 30 seconds, colleagues) that the Serbian people still have a much better memory than you want to present them through law projects that are exclusively focused on some new values which are, in essence, an international one and, responsibly, I argue, when it comes to the operation of so-called. NGOs, anti-Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23597	Thank you. Mr. Minister Markovic Milan, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23598	Dear fellow Members, Vice-President of the National Assembly, I think that in this room you were the only one in my class to interpret Mr. Myaljević and Mr. Master Mirovic in this way. Far from any ridicule. Perhaps you've been confused by some concepts or some names. That certainly wasn't a mockery. I said that I highly appreciate what Mr. Mirovic said, but I want to point out, here's a little bit of an extension of the thesis, that Serbia's constitutional legal development is completely different than the Russian Federation's development. That Mr. Mirovic knows perfectly well. In Serbia, freedom of association has a completely different historical basis than in the Russian Federation, which has virtually never lived as a civil society. I wanted to say that in Serbia, where we have a civil society in terms of liberal capitalism, I would immediately explain, since it is clear there, therefore, in Serbia, in which the freedom of association has some 120-130-year-old organisations, where it is so widely accepted in its various forms, objectives, visions of expression, it would be extremely inappropriate to set up restrictions on which Mr Mirovic, who exist in the Russian Federation, exists, because this would be undeniably narrowing citizens' rights to association here. Far from saying anything ugly about the Russian Federation. Moreover, I am fond of the Russian Federation. It's not a subject, unfortunately, but, let's say, and there's Mr. Mirovic going to agree with me, Samuel Huntington was talking about... He has one model of civilization; one of the civilizations that we belong to, according to Professor Huntington, is that Eastern Orthodox civilization, in which Russia... Very interesting, that's my suggestion to read, I don't know what it's called now, I can't remember. Far from any ridicule. As for Mr. Sladjan, my remark was why he stayed on Hobbs, because Hobbs was the basis of state absoluteism, why he didn't go one step further, to Loka. I said the hardest thing would have been if he had talked about Russo, but far from someone here thinking he was making fun of any way, and even less of insulting anyone's feelings, especially (believe me, you don't even know what they're mine) when it comes to the Russian Federation. Like a lot of people here, I grew up reading Dostoyevsky, so then you can understand what my feelings are like when it comes to the Russian Federation. But law and law are something else. Our legal system is mostly respected by the German legal system. For us lawyers, one of the supporters in the development of our thinking about the legal system is the Weimar Constitution of 1919. Our right was greatly influenced by German law and we simply have a different constitutional development than the Russian Federation does. Only in this sense did I react and tell Mr. Myaljevic, not Mr. Mirovic, why I disagree with him. Mr. Mirovic, if in any way I said anything, here, I'm glad you understood my exposure correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23599	Fellow MPs, it's obvious we had a kind of education. I'd like to go back to the agenda and the amendments after all. Mr. Mirovic, I'll give you a replica, but no more education, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23600	First of all, I'd like to say that we know that the minister is a good lawyer. That's what we figured out six more. 11. In 2008, when he told "Politika" that mandates under the Constitution belong to the parties. Also, we believe that the minister has taken a principled position regarding the Statute of Vojvodina. In that sense, we do not dispute that he is a good lawyer, but as far as the law itself is concerned, there is no need to quote Russian Federation legislation, but we can quote the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 10, on freedom of expression. Freedom of expression has its limits, but if you have a situation in your country that the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights brings a list of similar and unspeakable professors, then there is nothing else we need to apply, but only those limits that apply the European Convention on Human Rights in Article 10 on freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23601	The 66th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23602	The complete eighth chapter of the Association Law concerns the work and functioning of foreign associations on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This issue is brought closer by members of the law from 59 to 68. My amendment refers to Article 66(2) of which I have proposed to delete, and the motionary - the Government has not accepted. In particular, it is the means of working representing foreign associations, which can bring in the financial resources needed from abroad to the Republic of Serbia for their work, but in accordance with the foreign exchange law. Following the reconciliation of the tax and other obligations towards the Republic of Serbia, the same funds can be recovered from the country, also in accordance with the foreign exchange law. The association of foreigners in the Republic of Serbia for many years was governed by the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners, and later, after the break-up of the SFRY, this was arranged only on the basis of a certificate issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to foreign organisations and associations; these associations were treated in an analogue manner as domestic associations. However, the work of foreign associations, in our opinion, should be regulated by a special law. You have heard that today my colleagues have been declared in favour of this position, specifically, colleagues Sladjan Mijaljević, Petar Jojic and other MPs who explained it in detail. I just want to say that this law should allow citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23603	Thanks, time's up. National MP Ognjen Mihajlovic submitted to the 66th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted an amendment proposing that the title be deleted above article 67. Mr. Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23604	The Serbian Radical Party believes that foreign associations should not be the subject of the law, but rather a special law within which their work would be regulated. We have a lot of bad experiences when it comes to foreign associations and foreign NGOs, which have largely contributed to breaking Yugoslavia, and now they are working to break Serbia. Instead of humanitarian character, they often deal with profit, our country's politics, destroy our system and our society. Their work must be framed so that they do not act and participate in political, state-owned institutions. With us, unfortunately, the state institutions are full of foreign NGOs who use large funds to break our country. In addition to foreign associations, foreign NGOs, the sects, which destroy Orthodoxism, the spirit and the tradition of the Serb people, are harmful. I will give just one example that has almost happened in our country: the case that the daughter of Sladjana Jovanovic was given to the welfare center, or to the adoption of her daughter’s family from Obrenovac, members of the cult of Jehovah’s Witnesses, in violation of her daughter’s religious and national identity. The rule of foster care has been broken, children's rights are violated, children's association with Orthodox children is disabled, they must not go to birthdays and cross must not be worn. Jehovah’s Witnesses live in fanatical, closed conditions, which are harmful to the child, where the child does not have a variety of content to develop versatilely. The child’s development needs are significantly compromised. A child is forbidden from participating in religious ceremonies of other religions. She is not allowed to congratulate herself on holidays, not read books, not wear jewelry or any other ornaments, not to be active in youth associations, not to watch movies, nor to engage in sports. Blood transfusions are also forbidden. How can a child growing up in such conditions develop when almost all child’s development needs are neglected that will later affect the overall development of personality? Instead of developing in the spirit of Orthodoxism, she grows up in a family surrounded by Jehovah’s Witnesses. The Serbian Radical Party is against all sects, against all foreign associations and NGOs that work...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23605	You've wasted your time. Thank you. The National MP of Pai Momchilov submitted to the 67th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23606	Many experiences show us that the work of foreign associations, whether by a variety of humanities or by a foreign association under another name, is not well-intentioned, at least in many cases. It's always an association that's established with a purpose. The question is, what are the objectives of foreign associations that work and work in Serbia's territory? These goals, on the one hand, can be truly well-intentioned –humanitarian work, cultural, sports and other manifestations and activities. However, it can also be malicious, focused on logistical support for many ideas and activities against Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. It would be really good if we didn't have an enemy. However, it is said that he who has no enemies is happy, but he who is no one's enemy is even happier. When it comes to this second part of the saying, I think we can really be happy, because I hope we all agree that we are no one's enemies, but that we have a lot of enemies, it's safe to have them. Any organisation that could not register and organise on some other basis and under some other law is given a practical opportunity to register under this law. There are a lot of foreign associations that do really useful things to their countries, but they just can't register with us. They could be recorded or registered as foreign associations, which sort of work here, but not registered here. There are a lot of people who really like green bills and who want to do some dirty work, but let them register elsewhere and work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23607	Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23608	Dear People's MPs, honourable citizens, I have submitted an amendment to the draft law on associations. The amendment applies to Article 67(3) and is deleted. This is the view – the registerer of foreign associations brings a solution to the registration of a representative of a foreign association in the register of foreign associations. The Serbian Radical Party has nothing against foreign associations, but believes it should be the subject of another law that will treat only the subject of a foreign association. The government has not accepted this amendment. The government considers that a solution is proposed in accordance with international standards and that it is in agreement with the European Convention on the Recognition of Legal Entity to International NGOs. It is also said that foreign associations and their representations have been operating in the Republic of Serbia for years. We know that well, we have a bad experience. Many NGOs work and act outside the scope of their registration, to the harm of the state in which they operate. NGOs have contributed to the crackdown of the SFRY, and are now working to break the Republic of Serbia. There is Kosovo, Vojvodina, not to speak any further. Our citizens dressed abroad, and with great material assistance from the side, organized October 5th. Individuals have also received European recognitions for a job well done. The experience gained had to be carried out, or transferred to other countries: Georgia, Ukraine, Belarus and others. That's why we think this has to be solved by a special law for foreign NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23609	National MP Zoran Popovic tabled an amendment proposing that the title above article 68 be deleted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23610	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 68. The draft law on associations, by proposing that the title above article 68 be deleted. The Serbian Radical Party believes that foreign associations should not be the subject of this, but of a special law. Publicity in Serbia and Serbian citizens is a well-known position of Serbian radicals on the subject of the former but also of any future operation of a foreign factor in our country, which in recent years has shown an extremely high interest in influence in all areas of the social life of the Serbian people, which is aimed at enslavement, colonisation or, rather, the achievement of the global interests of Western countries, headed by the United States and individual intelligence services on the ground. Based on all the experiences past by the Serbian nation and state, we in the SRS believe that any operation of foreign associations in the Republic of Serbia in the coming period must be considered with extreme attention. The first question must be answered here whether humanitarian associations of citizens from other countries will act legally in Serbia or whether they will be spy exposures and exposition of Western intelligence services. So this is a very serious question, both for the present and for the future of our country. Serbian citizens know that there is no difference in whether George Soros will realise and finance his activities as he has done so far, indirectly through Natasha Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, Miljenko Deretta and others, or directly establish his exposition in Serbia, with branches in all cities and municipalities in Serbia. There's only a formal difference about enrolment in the register, but the essence remains the same and I, with this amendment that I suggested on behalf of the SRS, want to influence that this does not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23611	Thank you. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Paunovic-Milosavljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23612	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 68. The proposal for a law on associations which reads as follows: ‘Article 68(1) shall be deleted. “ Article 68 refers to the removal of a representativeship of a foreign association from a register of foreign associations. The SRS parliamentary group has submitted numerous amendments aimed at eradicating foreign associations from this law because it believes that foreign associations should not be subject to this law. Experiences from not so far past, but also present, say many foreign associations or international NGOs are not well-intentioned in Serbia, and especially not in Kosovo, where they were hearty in favour of independent Kosovo. We continue to suffer the many consequences of so - called “the true God. ” quasihumanitarian international organisations, which acted harmfully on Serbian people and Serbia. The SRS parliamentary group believes that we should not make the same mistakes and that international NGOs, i.e. foreign associations, should be clearly defined and registered by special law, not by association law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23613	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 68th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23614	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if the government had accepted all the amendments of the SRS that we are in principle in favour of moving foreign associations out of this law, we wouldn't have gotten anything special. Do we need some foreign associations besides our own, the way they are? I have to remind Mr. Milivojevic, we don't hate NGOs, on the contrary, we think that some as part of civil society are using. Not for us haters who come from the West, we don't know how to hate, we members of the SRS, as the Serbian people in general don't know it. If that were the case, the president of our party is best shown. But for those who do not want Serbia's citizens well, we are opposed in legal and other legal ways. Therefore, we do not need a foreign association, hostile to Serbia, besides our NGOs. I'll just remind you of a few things. Sonja Biserko in her book, which she called "Self isolation, reality or goal" (she is director of the Helsinki Committee) made a blacklist of the so-called "Self-insulation, Reality" (she is director of the Helsinki Committee). the enemy of Serbia's European path. On the front page of the book is a map of the Republic of Serbia without Kosovo and Metohija. For example, the Canonese Unrecognized Montenegrin Orthodox Church hired Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco to represent it in the interests of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Sonja Biserko, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco and Natasa Kandic, all three together, sent letters to 27 addresses of the EU member states in May 2007 to continue their pressure on Serbia until the moment until all persons for whom The Hague tribunal has issued the warrant. Besides NGOs like this, we don't need international organisations at all. When I say international organisations, I don't mean humanitarian organisations, I don't mean those that in their subject of action have what every normal person wants to have, I mean those who have a distinct anti-Serbian mood, and they're also in the West, and there are them here in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23615	The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Dušanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23616	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request that Article 68 paragraph 1 point 3 be deleted. My amendment refers to a foreign association, which should not be subject to this law. These are organizations already registered in other countries, so why should we prescribe anything about it? Why would we do that? A completely different question would be the association of foreigners, foreign citizens who are temporarily staying in our country. They could join together as, for example, our workers in countries where they live and work temporarily. It's something else entirely. Or, for example, associations of the international type behind which our country stands, such as the MOK, UEFA, FIFA, FIDA and the like. The proposal for this law for foreign associations states that they are non-governmental, non-profit organisations, etc., which have some of their own or general interests. How do you know these NGOs are nonprofits? Who knows who founded them and for what purpose? Based on our experience, these are almost always government organisations or even individuals, such as, say, the notorious Soroš and his like Serbian enemies, and up to one achieve the political interests of these governments and other financiers. They don't collect profits directly, but they're the best predecessor of all their corporations and cartels. Their destructive action is causing invaluable damage to our country and the people. The fragmentation of our national and state beings is the root cause and reason for their existence and establishment. Nearly 100% of foreign NGOs operating in Serbia have been established with this goal. Let's remember...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23617	Two minutes. Thank you. Member of the 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 68(2). On this occasion, I will comment on the government's opinion, which reads: "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the interpretation of Amendment 82." The government is in crisis because this argument does not exist, and it is no wonder that they are calling for an explanation of Article 82 of this Law. This Article of 82 regulates social organisations that, before being registered under the law, were subject to the status of the association of citizens in social organisations, they have the right to property in social, state-owned rights under the law governing denationalisation. It is only one comment, so the minister and government have not even read our amendments, which the Serbian Radical Party has highlighted. This amendment concerns the removal of a representative of a foreign association from a register of foreign associations, Article 68: “The representation of a foreign association shall cease and be deleted from the register of foreign associations: 1) if the foreign association has ceased its work; 2) if the foreign association has decided to terminate its representation; 3) if the representation of a foreign association is prohibited by the decision of the Constitutional Court. “ I know you don’t have a Constitutional Court, you lack five members. Decision to delete the representation of a foreign association from the register... There is no law or regulation in Serbia that regulates the functioning of foreign associations and NGOs. How do they work? That's how they run this country. It's from you who did all this. You sold water, air, land, grain and roads, you ripped it all apart. You're saying you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23619	Two minutes. The 68th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marina Ragush submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dobrislav Prelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 69, that the words "and the registrar of a foreign association" are deleted. The Serbian Radical Party believes foreign associations should not be subject to the law. It is enough that associations that divulge with Serbia, foreign agents; people like Sonja Biserko, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco and these Ustasha Kandic are quite enough to carry out what the EU and Washington want, and that is that as many as possible the Serbian people, to portray us as a criminal people, to portray us as a genocide people. When did you hear them say something good, that they sided with Serbian citizens? When did you hear that they made a statement about Naser Oriæ's verdict? When did you hear something they said about Ramush Haradinaj? We can't even hear it. They are paid to undermine Serbia's reputation as much as possible. Normally, supported by the Democratic Party. The Serbian Radical Party is in principle against the law. It is for the preservation, above all, of dignity, of the national dignity of the Serbian people. We are a people who are tolerant, but be sure that all of this you do to Serbian citizens will be judged as you deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23621	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23622	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 100, 102, 103 and 104. The Democratic Party is not paid by anyone, nor has the Democratic Party ever ruined Serbia's reputation. The Democratic Party is a parliamentary party. One who claims the Democratic Party is destroying the reputation of the Republic of Serbia says the two million people who voted for Boris Tadic also supported this party that is destroying Serbia's reputation, insulting Serbian citizens, is insulting the institution it is sitting in. I find it absolutely inappropriate and inadmissible, and I think no leader of the Democratic Party has ever been tried or charged with war crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23623	The People's Messenger, the People's Messenger Dobroslav Prelic, as well as the other People's Messengers, had an exhibition on the verge of breaking the Rules of Procedure. If they had crossed that edge, they would have been warned, even warned. What they were exhibiting in this house was, I say, on the verge of breaking the Rules of Procedure, and they said more about themselves than they did about the National Assembly or those they spoke of. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23624	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Article 27, which regulates the responsibilities and obligations of the president or the chairman during the session. Mrs. Komic, you have already partially responded to what I have said, but it is indisputable then that the previous MP has broken the Rules of Procedure. Because if he pointed out that the Rules of Procedure had been broken, then in this Rules of Procedure, as you do, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you should have made a warning. You have the right to assess on the basis of your free conviction. We often object to it, and we think you've overstepped a bit. This time, that's how you figured it out. We're not getting into that. But it is obvious that this remark by the previous MP is now putting him in an awkward position. I suppose it should have ended by the end, so he would have asked the Parliament in the voting day to make a statement on whether or not you broke the Rules of Procedure. As for the Democratic Party and its reputation, I think it is best described by your prominent member Goran Knezevic. He described it very closely. He said everything he had. I think that Stanko Subotic Cane also added his arguments, which speak enough about the Democratic Party. Also, arguments related to privatisation and those involved in privatisation, in various tenders, from Kolesar, in turn...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23625	Two minutes, time's up. People's MP, no harm done to article 27. Everything that has been done has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Your argument is on the verge of breaking the Rules of Procedure. In order to justify good practice and to control ourselves, not to exceed the limits of jurisdiction, and yet not to violate the Rules of Procedure, I believe that you have given your argument by misusing the right to Article 100. National MP Zoran Krasic throws - what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the other side of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Please don't insist on changing the practice that most of us obviously consider to be good, which is that I'm willing to solve problems, not penalties. Parliamentarians Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted together to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23626	Article 70. The bill's proposal says the minister's solution is finally and an administrative dispute can be launched against him. It is this formulation in Article 70 that is the best confirmation of what we have been trying for years to draw attention to the legislators, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministers of Resort. Our proposals to replace the word "Minister" with the word "Ministership" are not mere formality, but always to draw attention to the fact that these proposals of the law are unconstitutional only because of these formulations in the beginning. A few days ago, Minister Sasa Dragin realized when I explained one such amendment and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepted the amendment. Mr. Markovic, I expect you, as an experienced lawyer, to also understand that the minister as a natural person cannot be the one against whom the administrative dispute is being initiated. You've done a lot of work in the administration, you know that in the administrative procedure solutions are made, that those solutions are made by the competent state authorities or, possibly, by the authorities of local self-government as entrusted tasks and that the actual administrative dispute is being initiated, but against the decision of the competent authority. The fact that you have a Law on State Administration that does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, with Article 136(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is no excuse that you can also bring all other laws contrary to the provisions of the Constitution. As a lawyer, you should know that one wrong cannot warrant any new right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23627	Parliamentarians Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond submitted together to the 71st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, we have come to criminal provisions when it comes to this law. What is predicted here by sanctioning through the heights of penalties is practically something that will lead many associations to bankruptcy, because it will not be able to pay, and the responsible persons in these associations will also be able to think very carefully when they catch a job like this. In Article 72(1), the number ‘300,000’ is replaced by ‘50,000’ and the number ‘900,000’ is replaced by ‘200,000’. In Article 72(2), the number ‘30,000’ is replaced by ‘5,000’ and the number ‘90,000’ is replaced by ‘30,000’. Recital: ‘It is necessary to measure the penalties provided for by the economic offender, both for associations and for responsible persons in associations, as they are associations that do not have a business activity in order to obtain profits. If such a criminal policy remains, only one sentence will be enough to drive associations into bankruptcy, which is certainly not the aim of the legislator, and it would also work detimulatively for those who deal with amateurism, and they do not have the opportunity to engage professional persons, lawyers and economists to avoid the possibility of punishment. “ Mr. Minister, once again I urge you to consider and take care of the heights of these penalties. I once again express great dissatisfaction. You weren't here today when I was talking about Article 20. I believe that, if we mention economic crimes, it would absolutely have to be the jurisdiction of the Trade Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23629	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Suleiman Spaho, submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger Suleiman Spaho.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23630	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, every amendment I propose is part of the improvement of the law, and even this, and a good law, you well know, takes you directly to Europe. Here's a chance, through my amendment, to join Europe as soon as possible, but provided you accept it. You know it's hard to explain any amendment in two minutes, but I'll try, listen carefully, so we can get into Europe as soon as possible. On behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 73. The draft law on associations, which reads: Article 73 paragraph 1 states "from 50,000 to 500,000 dinars" is replaced by the words "from 10,000 to 100,000 dinars". This Article of the Proposal for a Law on Associations refers to a chapter dealing with infringements, more specifically, the amount of fines for infringements committed by the association. As a direct proposal, the Serbian Radical Party and I propose such a solution given the current economic, financial and social situation in the Republic of Serbia, which can only be described as a huge number of citizens in two words, Mr Minister – extremely difficult. However, the SRS believes that the government must not empty the budget to fill and base on punishing citizens of the Republic of Serbia and drag their hands into the empty pocket of poor citizens anyway. I think this is a solution that I have made with this amendment on fines more appropriate and that the government, which calls itself socially responsible, should accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23631	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23632	Since there are several amendments to the level of punishment, the fines are high, serious, no dilemma whatsoever. If I had a dilemma before the debate was opened in principle, now I have no further dilemma. If I could, the fines should be bigger. When I listened to the MPs of your party and the ethnic coalition, who explained how all the evils could be hidden behind NGOs (creation of children, sects, businesses, work contrary to the statutes and contrary to this law), I realized that we had to create a strong criminal system to deter all people who would potentially abuse the provisions of this law and under the auspices of this law, let's say, create a cult. Therefore, we cannot strongly condemn on the one hand the possibility of someone establishing an NGO, and then dealing with the visions of some indoctrination, religious, to perform rituals, which is contrary to this law... Anyone who does so under the auspices of a NGO (disrupts youth, sects of rights) should be punished, regardless of the crisis. I don't know why you think we should treat them mildly and reduce the penalties for violations. Penalties for violations are entirely consistent with what you, as MPs of the opposition, have spoken of the dangers behind the possibility of abuse of this bill. I'm staying on all these suggestions for these fines. I must tell you that these penalties are in accordance with the Law on Violations and the Law on Economic Crimes, within the limits of minimums and maximums. There's no need to be sentimental. Association of citizens is freedom and there should be that freedom. I'm sorry that we differ in terms of certain elements. But we can't be sentimental. Indeed, Mr. Mijaljević and many others are right to say that it is possible for someone to establish an association without actually having other goals. There's no such thing as sentimentality. Indeed, those are the ones we should punish as much as we can. Believe me, we must remain at the most severe punishments for those who abuse this freedom and under the cloak of this freedom deal with some other actions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23633	National MP Dragan Todorovic has been reported. The MP group doesn't have time. You want straight to the replica? You have no right to a replica. In his presentation, the minister did not say anything that would give rise to the right to replication. National MP Srdjan Spasojevic has one minute and thirty seconds at his disposal. You can use the time of your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23634	I'll try in these minutes and 30 seconds, although I have other amendments... Mr. Minister, don't be so selective as to determine. None of the MPs who have submitted these amendments... You practically said we wanted to protect the sects. That's not the point. There are many associations here that are total amateurs dealing with some positive social activity: sports clubs, various associations, fishing or any other association. Don't explain to Serbian citizens that MPs of the SRS or the NS defend the sect. Why didn't you introduce a special member of the bill and especially highlight what you just said? Then no one would react. We're talking about a series of amateur associations and responsible persons in these associations that will run a mile away from any association, given the level of punishment. None of us talked about sects. You could have introduced one member into the bill and set out this height for these people who deal with various abuses, and free people who deal with positive activities, useful to society and citizens of Serbia, from these charges.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23635	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23636	I was just saying that the argument I heard in these two days of debate just convinced me that I should keep a high sentence. Who's committing a crime? No one's forcing anyone to commit a crime. There's an incident on one side. On the other hand, ignore the legion at night, ignorance of the law harms. We cannot defend them, for they “poor ” do not know the law. There's not much to know. If you have associations dealing with the protection of some people who are a vulnerable group, then you're dealing with a vulnerable group, don't trade in real estate. Do we understand each other? It can't be that he doesn't know so much that he's committing a crime. He has one goal under the statute, and he starts propagating some other goals, starts performing religious rituals because he could not register under the Church and Religious Communities Act. That's what we talked about last time. Why should we consider whether his punishment is large or small? At the very least, in the process of determining punishment, as a lawyer, you know that better than we are currently in practice, the range is that. At the very least, the degree of his wine will be determined, perhaps the man did it in an accident, so the punishment will be small. But we must not escape from having a large range, to a very high penalty, just to prevent all those who would abuse the association of citizens, and thus toss a shadow of a series of associations that really work for what they were founded for, for the best purpose and for the benefit of this country and this people. That's exactly what I want to say. You see, in today's debate, a lot of attitudes are based on a negative relationship with two or three associations, and we have 30,000 associations. We often formulated our views in this debate in terms of two or three associations. We can't let that happen. Those who do contrary to the provisions of the law and the opposite of the statute and the objectives must be punished, so as not to compromise so many different types of association in any way. This is one area that was extremely favourable in the previous period for all those who perform tax evac – they made associations, and it is not an association but a bar. That and today you have countless, here, in Belgrade by the rivers. This is a very specific area. It must be threatened with high penalties because the fact is, and here I agree with all the speakers who talked about it, that in our society indeed a large number of people have abused the right to association in order to achieve some goal that is either economic activity or something else, and it has nothing to do with what is the essence of the right to association. I am convinced that it is necessary to remain at the highly threatened sentences of those who violate the provisions of the law, as we have put here in our proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23637	The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 73. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23638	Mr. Minister, I was lucky to have my amendment right behind your presentation, so I don't need a replica. Mr. Minister, we can't deal with assumptions about whether someone, as you've explained well now, is going to the pubs. We're talking about positive regulations. I just want to tell you something, this is about some kind of general prevention, yours, to prevent high sentences from getting into some bad activity, as you say. I agree with you, none of us are in violation of the law. But I have to tell you that in Serbia there are a series of total amateur associations, people who are involved in some activities out of love. You can't... You just said that someone might have done it in an untimely fashion, so they're going to ease up, but you're prescribing a fine of 30,000 to 90,000 and you say... Well, a fine of 30,000 thousand is practically an average salary in Serbia, and someone is dealing with amateurism. That's what this is all about when we talk about business crimes in responsible persons. You weren't there today at one time when on the 10th multiple opposition parties... The DSS proposed five founders, the SRS 30 founders, New Serbia ten founders. In a situation where one founder from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and two hypothetically speaking, from abroad, have no residence in Serbia, I ask you an argument – what will be "burned", in folk language, if there is an economic offense? Who will be responsible if you “burn ” and cannot find them? Will a minor face... I agree with you that he can't answer, but his legal counsel is the father. So the question is, is she okay... Just when we come to criminal provisions, we see the correctness of the proposed amendments where a number of founders are proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23639	Two minutes. Thank you. National MPs Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic submitted the amendment to Article 73. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23640	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to Article 73(2) in order to delete the words ‘in a larger volume, or’. It's a highly inventive response to our amendment, which is why it's not accepted. In response, you simply say that this amendment cannot be accepted since a similar attitude exists in Article 37. That's a very interesting answer. Today there was controversy between you and Prof. The shambles who submitted the amendment to Article 37. In fact, this is about establishing a limit, which is a greater scope, doing more work in a larger scale, or in a smaller scale. Simply, when you read this point 2) – that a business or other activity is performed in a range that is not necessary to achieve the objectives of the association, it sounds better. Some other laws, therefore, the Financial Business Act, the Accounting Act, treat this and establish what is greater or smaller. It is very problematic what is a smaller scale for an NGO that, for example, has a turnover of 2m euros (as we have some NGOs) or a larger volume for an NGO that has a total annual turnover of 150,000 dinars. We simply felt that this was a more elegant solution, that this in Article 37 and Article 73 would not exist without allowing other laws to regulate this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23641	National MP Dragan Stevanovic submitted the amendment to Article 73. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23642	Mr. Minister, I have to realize that you were right when you recognized the principled position of the SRS against this law. I have to say, in order for it to be no doubt, we are not against the facts and the need to regulate this area in society and the state, but we really are against the way you want to do it, and we are skeptical of the definition that you are going to do it. If I come from this argument that the third sector, or the non-governmental sector, as you call it, plays an important role in social processes, it is really untasteful to be reminded of this by you who have been missing out on our chance for nine years, to return the law to the assembly procedure five times, and to point us to the need to arrange this area in our society and our country. What is devastating is the fact that the non-governmental sector, or the third sector, in the last nine years, at least that smaller part of it, mostly played a dominant role in relation to those of you who make up executive power. They wrote you the laws you adopted here, and then you didn't or did. Therefore, we really suspect that in this paper, either an act or a law, you are developing or defining mechanisms to counter the negative consequences of this so-called action. the NGO sector. We believe that the crucial problem is that you really do not recognize the political will and the determination to edit this area in an appropriate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23643	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23644	What's appropriate and what's not is a matter of political sighting. You see in your own way, we see in your own, you vote against, we're in, we don't need to discuss much. I'd go back to these questions, my colleague came back, which concerns... What's that guarantee five in the story we just started? Four escapes, and one stays, so he's a minor. What difference does that make? Generally, what's the difference and 30? If we want a guarantee, we can say - let the association deposit. But we don't have a deposit of that kind that would guarantee anything, not even for companies. It's always that question -- what if, what if, what if? No hard feelings. That argument of yours is absolutely not standing. Who's responsible for the minor? That's settled by other regulations. It is not possible that a minor can do whatever he wants and there is no responsibility, especially if there is a legal representative, and he always has to exist in taking legal action. I don't see what the problem is. Speaking of violations, does anything change whether it's 50 to 500 or 10 to 100? It only changes the fact that the highest threatened sentence is five times smaller than the one... I'm not speaking specifically to you right now, yours is similar, only that the less threatened punishment. I think she needs to stay bigger, because practice has shown, I speak from experience as a minister, I speak from the experience that we all have as citizens here, that many people behind the association have been undisputed in economic activity. Undisputed, economic activity was hidden behind the association. They were paid more to be punished, because the punishment was small, but to continue to carry out business activities besides the association. That's why the fines should stay high. Mr. Nikolic had an objection to... I can't remember exactly. Mr. Nikolic, here's what this is all about: it will be appreciated by the organ, in particular. This isn't the first time. When it comes to registering a company, you have a business nomenclature and as a business company you have the right to perform the activities for which you have registered, but there is the possibility that even beyond that, in a small volume (it literally writes - in a smaller volume, it is a standard that values a possible body that needs to impose a penalty) to carry out something that is not in those activities that you listed from that list of activities. It's a standard that exists with us as such. I believe that in practice there will be no problem, because I know that there were no problems with the standard – a smaller volume. It's hard to determine what's smaller, very difficult. Now, here as legislator, MPs need to establish – the smaller volume is that percentage. It has never been so determined when it comes to action, nor will the future, I suppose, be so established. I think that like companies, when it says – and beyond what is a small-scale activity, standard will be applied here in the same way. I really don't see any problem with that. In particular, in real life, we know what this is: this is when the Alliance of the Blind sells Bray's alphabet, that's it; that's how they acquire some means that help them realize. But if we were to notice, anyone, that the Alliance of Blinds is engaged in stock exchanges, then obviously it's not a smaller volume, it's a serious business activity and would have succumbed to a likely proper sanction. In practice, such things happen with these associations where we aim to protect ourselves from happening, but that's why exactly what I was just saying is that mass people open a pub, and it says, "Citizens' association." We have a very, very serious problem here. It was a major remark from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, and we finally agreed that the best way to get out of this is by threatening a very high sentence and trying to tighten control, the truth, with very small resources that we have; unfortunately, it is only 18 inspectors for the territory of the entire state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23645	National MP Filip Stojanovic submitted to the 74th amendment. The word is given by MP Filip Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23646	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, in front of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 74(1). Proposal for a law on associations. The Serbian Radical Party believes that the amendment solution is more appropriate in the state in which the Republic of Serbia is located, i.e. the general economic situation in the country. In Article 74, the words ‘from 50,000 to 500,000 dinars’ are replaced by ‘from 10,000 to 100,000 dinars’. Because of your proposals in this law that even minors can be founders of the association, with the written consent of parents or guardians, who, as signatories, bear responsibility for what their children who have not yet completed high school, or have a certain number of years, or experience of making the right decisions and given the economic crisis created by this government, and the global economic crisis, and by the assessment of economic experts, it will take the next four or five years, we believe that these threatened penalties are very high. That's why I invite you to accept this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23647	The 74th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic, who wants a word. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23648	Mr. Minister, I'll try in two minutes, because we don't have any more time. I would really ask you to read the articles 74 and 73. In particular, the association is being punished by 50,000 - 500,000 and in one case and another, but if we go from the social danger of the work, look, read Articles 74 and 73, objectively, in Article 73 is a socially more dangerous act, if we assume that violations are a kind of social hazard. They're completely identical punishments. Be flexible, at least in article 74, accept this amendment, because it can't be the same. Take, please, look on the spot now. There's just one more thing I'd like to tell you, Mr. Secretary. You can't deal with individual cases and generalize things that everybody in associations practically manipulates. I claim that in Serbia 95% at least, 99% of people work in associations out of love, in cultural and artistic societies, sports clubs, etc. If anyone commits this kind of abuse, let the DA react, let him prosecute himself. Don't generally all associations of this kind of punishment to predict. My basic message from here is that people who deal with amateurism, people who work for a personal income of 30,000-40,000 dinars and who have their own meaning of life through an association, that some kids channel that they're not on the street, that they're in some sports club... Don't pimp them out under individual cases of people who apparently commit crimes in these societies. I don't mind people like that being chased, but please don't generalize things, because, I repeat, many people in associations work out of pure love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23649	Minister Milan Markovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23650	I totally agree, people work out of love, people work out of need. In the end, the association is founded to achieve certain goals and they can be extremely private, it is not controversial. Why is it a problem for those who do this work in accordance with the law and in accordance with the statutes? In my opinion, there's no problem. It says – the property is not only used for the achievement of its constitutional objectives, means that the assets benefit in another direction; it achieves activities contrary to the law, the statute, other general acts, as well as the rules of the alliance of which it is a member; it performs an economic or other activity in a greater scope, i.e. the extent not necessary for the achievement of the objectives of the society; the representative of the foreign association shall start to act before entering the register; it shall not allow the public to work in a manner established by the statute; the name or a short name shall not be used in the form in which it is entered in the register; within 15 days it shall not report to the register of the change of the data entered in the register; the report on its work, scope and the way of obtaining and the use of the funds shall not make available to the public, and that report shall not provide the provider of the means. I'm not saying that I don't know what kind of social danger it is, but I can't understand that we don't need to be very clear about this. This is a direct violation of the law. How can someone be smart enough to do this? It's not a failure, it's not a failure, it's very serious if a man doesn't do any of this. He can't apply for money from the state without giving a report after what he did with that money. I don't know, we obviously have a different attitude. I'm staying on it, the ranges are quite large, from 50,000 to 500,000, as you can see. It's a range that allows, in accordance with the assessment of a criminal court, to be delivered, to say, a just punishment, but I don't see why we should give up on this. Practice tells us that many abuse associations. We can't say – people do this out of love, so if they do it wrong, they're wrong. There's not much wrong here, you have to make a mistake here to make a mistake. He can't. He just happened to be wrong. In the end, I return again, the punishment for a natural person, or for a responsible person, is from five thousand to fifty thousand; one is for an association, one for a person. At the very least, we're different. You think one thing, I mean another, let's not spread that story any further. I think we have reason to put strict penalties in place, given the discussion we've been having here. Much in this discussion also referred to what is practice, which is that people abuse associations in different ways. 99% of them don't abuse anything, and 99% of them won't come under the influence of this law, but that 1% can come under the influence of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23651	National MP Srdjan Spasojevic is registered in the system. You don't have time for a parliamentary group. You have no right to a replica, nothing has been said that would cause and justify the replica. Members of the 74th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marina Toman submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Marina Toman.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23652	In Article 74(2), the words ‘5,000 to 50,000 dinars’ are replaced by ‘from 1,000 to 10,000 dinars’. With this amendment, we do not want to question the position of the SRS that data on the work of the Association of Citizens must be made available to the public. For years, we've been pointing to this big problem, because we're facing the fact that a lot of things about associations are wrapped up in a veil of secrets. However, we believe that this will not be resolved at the level of fines. That, unfortunately, we're right, you'll see to it right after the law is applied. We wanted to protect those associations with modest means, that is, amateur associations, as you, ministers say, those who work with love. In doing so, no one wants to protect the sects, because we are witnessing that associations with destructive activities mostly have a lot of money, finance themselves from different sides and whether the penalty will be 50,000 dinars or more. They have the financial power to pay, and on the other hand, have that other power, many have infiltrated various decision-making processes. They're very influential in society. In doing so, I don't think we based that attitude on three associations. Therefore, nothing will stop them from respecting the law. It's precisely that power that allows them to behave like that. I don't think this law can prevent their behavior, but it's a matter for those who allow such behavior. To reiterate and point out once again, the SRS is that there is a public work, that the work of the association is public, but that punishments, or their height, will not affect it at all. We're just afraid the law will break. On the other hand, the law contains a series of provisions that regulate this area too mildly, in that they do not offer too much hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23653	Two minutes. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic to Article 75. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23654	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, once again, I will try to explain to you, through this amendment that I have submitted to you, regarding the article. 73rd and 74th. You didn't listen to me very carefully, I'd really like to ask you. The level of social danger among members 73 and 74 is not the same. Then you can't punish the exact same thing. There's a fine between 50,000 and 500,000 dinars and it's not the same if someone's doing the activity. Let me agree with you that 73rd is fine, but I can't agree that 74th is fine, because there are obvious errors here. There is some intention, there is some imagination to do something, but miss out on what they are like in Article 74 – if they do not allow the public to work in the way established by the statute or if within 15 days they do not report to the data registrator, it cannot be the basis for 500,000. I think that's where you need to loosen up, show some flexibility, not the same article. 73rd and 74th. I'd understand if you put it in an article. 73th out of 100,000 to 1,000,000 dinars, then I could understand this, but this graduation sentence as you've done is wrong. It's not the same social hazard in Articles 73 and 74. Please appreciate something, because I really think I'm absolutely right when I make this remark to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23655	Members of the 75th Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Škrbic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubisa Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? For a stenogram – we return to the amendment to Article 76, MP Srdjan Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23656	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I had a problem with the card, that's why I didn't apply at the moment. Here's an amendment, Minister, that goes in favor of both you and the associations. I hope you accept him. In Article 76, ‘90’ is replaced by ‘180’. Recital - the amendment is not accepted because the 90-day deadline is appropriate and assessed as necessary for the adoption of the rules for the enforcement of this law. In view of the changes in the organisation and way of functioning of management operations, etc., etc. My argument of the amendment – if this law is passed, it is necessary to leave enough time for the minister to pass the rules for the enforcement of this law, and also leave enough time for associations to organise themselves in accordance with the law. Six-month period, a New Year's notice... There are some people, ministers, who, given this bill, will be excluded from the association; let people finish this calendar year, so from New Year's, whoever wants, who won't, let people decide. An absolutely appropriate amendment, going to order you, associations and people working in associations, to adapt to this bill. So I think at least this amendment should have been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23657	The word has Minister Milan Markovic. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: There is no transmission.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23658	We're not doing this for transmission, we're doing this to consider, I guess, the provisions of the law in detail. So thank you for trying to help me, but we really talked about this seriously. We have two sublegal regulations that we need to pass within a perfectly sufficient 90-day period, and the Agency for Economic Registers believes it is capable of fully doing this job in contrast to that 60-day deadline. If we of those 60 days, as long as it takes to get the paperwork, we've made another 120 days, you've suggested 180, so 120 days remains the difference. In our confidence, there's no need. I don't know how to say this, we can do this for this time, we really can. As for the association, we put... You, later in the amendment, cut the re-registration deadline. I don't think we should do that. We should leave it longer. You're the same in this amendment, maybe it's a mistake, I don't know, in article 78 of the 18 months you replaced... No, it's not you, it's Zoran Nikolic later. The deadline needs to stay long, and you're absolutely right, for organizations 18 months, to see how, what, where they're going, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23659	National MP Ljubisa Petkovic submitted to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23660	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, submitting an amendment to Article 76. I do not propose to shorten or extend the 90-day deadline for the adoption of the rules for the enforcement of this law. The proposed deadline is relative, and if it works in quality and efficiency, it could be shorter. Otherwise, if it's done ineffectively and ineffectively, twice as long as it's planned, it won't be enough. It is objectively difficult to assess which deadline is optimal for the adoption of all the rules necessary for the implementation of this law. I haven't even dealt with this amendment. The principled position of the SRS is that these acts are brought by the ministry as a state body, not by the minister as an elder of that body. I must stress that this is not the only law in which individual ministers are given priority or greater authority than a state body or an institution. I think this DS practice should go beyond that. Based on these facts, I suggest that the Parliament accept my amendment in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23661	Members of the 78th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami and Zoran Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23662	The minister has already commented on this member, that he will not accept it, but you would need to give a more serious explanation, which is why 18 months are due. So if we have 90 days, or three months from the entry into force of this law, we think that a six-month period is quite enough for organisations that have already been registered to reregister, to comply with the statutes, and therefore to register. You've been here for 180 days to explain that there's a large number of associations, that there are more than 30,000 associations, and that's why the proposed 18-month deadline is appropriate. So I ask what, hypothetically, is it estimated that there are 60,000 organisations in Serbia? Then you'd give a 36-month term? So it absolutely doesn't matter what the number of organizations is, it matters what time limit organisations can reregister. If we have that 90-day deadline, where you're supposed to give regulations on how it should be harmonised, then a six-month deadline is enough for NGOs to bring this job to an end and to have this sector in a normal nine-month period, not to wait two years. That'll just keep the organizations in line to wait for some deadline. So, if your intention was to avoid traffic or pressure, you're not going to do it. This is similar to these passports: citizens are waiting for the deadline to take new passports; therefore, they will not be relieved of the services that betray these passports, so perhaps 31 December of this year we will have to extend the deadline for another year. So, to repeat, a six-month period is absolutely enough to reregister and there is no need for that deadline to be longer. Accept at least one amendment proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23663	The word has Minister Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23664	You know, Mr. Nikolic, I always have a good desire to accept amendments. Every minister, I suppose, has the same wish, because he has a more pleasant stay in the Assembly, especially because it's really often that amendments are very useful. I guess the problem is that this law has been done for a long time, which the amendments from the last round have already been introduced into the basic text of the law. Realistically, there's no room; I'd take it, but it can't, there's no room. To tell you the truth, I've also talked to my associates, it's hard to expect that within less than 18, 12, but in six months it wouldn't be possible to reregister 30,000 organizations. These are citizens' associations, it would be a big problem and a lot of pressure, and for them themselves a big problem to do so on such short notice. Let's keep it for 18 months. We've given six hundred and a half months for political parties to reregister. We've got 30,000 associations here. Make it 18 months. I don't think we're losing anything or what we're getting, whether it's 18 months or 12 months. It is certain that the six-month deadline, according to the belief of those who work registers (meaning that it is not my belief, but those who work on registers), would cause certain problems. You know what it looks like in practice -- people bring papers, and then we call them on the phone, you're not this, you add this, fix this. If all of them are 30,000... You can count on 20,000 to go to supplement, repairs. Who's gonna do it in six months? I just don't think it's physically possible. But, look, I'll make sure we adopt more amendments on another occasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23665	Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 79th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Todorovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment has made an excellent explanation in the previous presentation of the Prophets of Radet, so I have no reason to deal with it specifically. I haven't had a chance to replicate, so I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity of this amendment to tell you some things when it comes to this law. First of all, you, Mr. Minister, have confirmed that this law is not good, because you came to suspect that these criminal provisions were great, and when you heard all the remarks of the MPs, you came to the point that you thought they were small. That's what he's saying, Mr. Minister, that you haven't seriously devoted yourself to this problem. The damages that can occur are such that you give birth to the idea that punishment should have been much greater. But let me tell you, Mr. Minister, how this area is arranged in any country can measure the degree of independence in any country. If you take that, then we are practically a state under occupation, not yet military, but we are under occupation – financial, media and occupation of the NGO sector. If you take, say, an example of America, there's absolutely no way you can set up any single organization, with a single dollar financed from abroad. In Russia, too. And if America should be your example of democracy and freedom, you should be handling it. Why don't we trust you? Because these NGOs, one small number, but that small number has caused untold damage to our country... If you really, honestly wanted to settle this area the right way, then the question of punishment would absolutely be no problem. All you had to do was accept that amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23667	Two minutes. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 80th amendment. He has writtenly withdrawn the amendment to Article 80, so that the amendment has ceased to be the subject of discussion in detail. The 81st amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. And he wrote the amendment, so this amendment stopped being discussed in detail. National MP Zoran Shami submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which he proposed that a new article 81a be added after article 81a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Shami.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23668	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 81 be introduced after article 81. Right away, all other amendments to the Democratic Party of Serbia were in principle such as to try to correct the existing text in one way or another. This is the only amendment that has been submitted to regulate the matter that is not regulated by this law, and in our opinion it is necessary to regulate it. I'll read you the amendment. Unfortunately, I had to make amends for a literal mistake that changed the meaning. There was one letter missing, so she could have understood it differently. The amendment reads: “The immovableities left as legislators by individual Esnaf organisations and which were used by those organisations are equally transferred to the property of all organisations of the esnaf provided that they existed and worked actively for at least ten years before the adoption of this law. The immovableity referred to in Article 1 shall not be estranged. The property rights referred to in Article 1 shall be laid down in the procedure before the competent court. “ I’ll tell you what’s going on right away, and then I’ll comment on the government’s response. It's something that isn't defined. It is true that the government dealt mainly with social property, but the fact is that there were legates, and these legions that were left in an old age, since before World War II, when we were a democratic and legal state, that were left to individual esnaphs and that these esnaphs used. Of course, after World War II, the legions continued to use the extended hands of the only party that existed and ruled Serbia, then Yugoslavia. I don't need to assure you that all associations, whether they were craftsmen, writers, journalists, who worked at that time, were essentially extended hands and such authorities. I would remind you that after 1990, when the multi-party system in Serbia officially started, and in fact in many ways still a single-party system, individual associations, or members of individual associations, were forced to organise parallel associations, because they did not want to continue to be extended the hand of the then government, or the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. Here in the amendment, it is very precise that the legislation that has not been nationalised in its own time, so we should not wait for the denationalisation law to be available to them. But, in our belief, it should give the opportunity to all associations of an esnaf, of course, to those who have actively worked for a sufficient number of years, so that it doesn't happen that ten of us are now organizing, for material reasons, a new association, so we report that we share property. It should be possible for all associations that existed to simply dispose of these legions for the purposes for which they were to lie and give. The government refused the amendment. He says: “The amendment is not accepted, since the proposed solution contained in the new article 81a of the bill does not refer to the subject matter of the regulation of this law. The bill deals exclusively with the issue of social property, especially social property immovableities," it is not disputed, nor do we argue that this should be resolved, "on which social organisations have so far the right to use. The amendment does not refer to the resolution of the fate of immovableity in the social property on which social organisations had the right to use, but rather to the immovableities left to individual Esnaf organisations, i.e. private property of those organisations, as legislators. “ That’s the thing, which is not the problem of the legislation. That's why we've submitted the amendment, the new amendment. There are more examples like that, you think there's only one, but it's not just one that would be applied to. You know very well about one example, but I will say because of the other MPs – you have a legislation that was left to the Serbian Journalists' Association in 1934. Since then, the Journalist Association has been using it. It was also used by the Association of Journalists of Serbia in the Joseph Broz era, used by the Association of Journalists of Serbia in the age of Slobodan Milosevic, but was also created by the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia, for understandable reasons. Not everyone wanted to sit with some Komrakov in the same association. Why wouldn't the legislation left to Serbian journalists continue to be used by all relevant Serbian journalists? I do not dispute at all the right of the Association of Journalists of Serbia or the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia to use the legislation. That's the kind of situation you have in some trade associations. I know that for a fact. I don't see why this law... You say you don't accept the amendment because it's not the subject of this law. It is the subject of this law. You know, it's not the subject of this law of what we do with the social property that was once given to an association, union, etc., state, communist, to be exact. Why wouldn't this law give an opportunity, or an instructional norm, and let the court further disintegrate who, how, how much, etc.? That's what's scheduled for this amendment. This is probably your last chance to accept an amendment to the Democratic Party of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23669	The word has a minister, Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23670	Mr. Shami, I'm sorry you think there are other motives. Every minister, or at least to me, is easier to accept the amendment than to reject it, for at least two reasons: one is that the debate goes much faster, and the other is that you have a far more pleasant discussion. But I can't accept an amendment that I don't think is right. It is indisputable that there have been good amendments from your party in previous laws, it has been accepted so many times, as well as from other parties. I didn't find it necessary here to accept these amendments, and I think we've given a good explanation for each of them why we haven't. Now I'm going to say my opinion on this. That's what I said, this topic has been and many have called and asked, people I respect, but I don't think this can be solved this way, especially something that's already in court proceedings, or even where it's not. So if we have one association and this association has something in its possession, there's a divide in that association, there's someone leaving that association, there's two ways to get rid of it: one is if it's consensual, deobic balance, and the other is a proper trial before the court. You say this in your amendment: “The rights of the Court of Justice laid down in Article 1 shall be established before the Court of Justice”. But, Mr. Shami, before that, you prejudge how a court case will be resolved. You say “equally, ” which excludes someone who was created nine years ago in an esnafic association, and perhaps his participation exists, and perhaps he would rightly share the fate of a legate. So I don't think we can allow ourselves this way to solve the property issue in a situation where two of the two associations were formed from one association, or one part of the association stepped forward and another association was formed, etc. I think it should be settled in court and I believe that the court is capable of handling it in a fair way. I don't know what a concrete act looks like, I guess they're different in the legate, so this one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one, that one. I'm guessing there's something else in this particular act. We need to understand that there can be a variety of situations. In any case, I wouldn't risk any way that we could legally get into solving this matter the way you suggested. This kind of matter, in my opinion, needs to be resolved by the court alone. Eventually, it can be solved by the authority of the administration, or we can handle the procedure when we need to determine who the representative is, etc., but we're... It's the final administrative dispute, the administrative procedure, after which the administrative dispute goes again, so it's the court that needs to settle things again. I don't dispute the idea you've put out here, but I'm telling you that I can't accept by law that someone is going to share something evenly, and then I'm going to add -- the court will determine how. If it's even, then it's even; if it's a court, it's a court, and the court can say 70-30, 80-20 or someone has nothing, and someone has everything, but let the court decide. We cannot solve this particular case of the Association of Journalists of Serbia and the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia. We could just cause an additional problem and perhaps even question this provision of this member of the law. I'm not sure this could come to life in our legal order this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23671	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. The time available to the authorised representative is two minutes and thirty seconds and the time available to the parliamentary group is six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23672	I thought I'd use time for a replica, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Minister, I totally understand your position not to be from here, but this isn't about, if it's about the press, it's not about someone having a fight with someone just like that, and leaving the association, which, given our nature, happens often. This is about far more serious reasons why such associations were formed. I think the norm is clear, and you tell me what if it was nine years ago. You know, nine or eight years, I hope, we live in a little different country than we did ten years ago. Not many will agree with me, but I think so, so this amendment is very precise. Why even? Because I think everyone should be given a chance that what exists from the relevant associations... Some other associations with the same motif of the 1990s have been tearing each other apart. It's not about the social property that you solve, I mean, in principle, you solve well, it's only about legates. So something left to the writers can't be used by doctors right now. It can't. So you know the address, who's using it. They use all relevant associations. You, after all, want associations that don't have a very famous past, regardless of the current situation, to benefit in any way and to continue to use what they used in the 1990s. I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic, that your position is such, but there will be an opportunity for us to discuss this issue some next time and perhaps elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23673	The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to article 86. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Acimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Acimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Associations: “Article 86(2) is deleted. ” The Serbian Radical Party is critical of this law because this law allows many NGOs to promote immorality in society, spy, encourage sects to increasingly activity and presence in all public places. The growing activity of NGOs representing themselves as foreign associations, taking care of a certain number of citizens and showing humanity, is just an extended hand of many intelligence services. It is precisely their functioning that the product of destroying the Serbian state is in all possible forms, so their legal protection is not necessary, because all secret services are behind them and they are quite well protected, better than any Serbian citizen, and without this law. This bill is not well-defined. The Serbian Radical Party believes that foreign associations should not be subject to this law and I suggest that the 86th member be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23675	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Andric and Natasa Micic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23676	Article 86 of the Association Act provides for a procedure for harmonising work already established by foreign associations with the provisions of this law. In the event that a foreign association fails to implement the consent procedure, work authorisation shall be withdrawn and Article 3 of which I have proposed to delete shall be subject to the legal procedure of appeal and the whole appeal procedure. What is important to emphasize here is one of the statements of the minister, there were two, and I will try to quote it – practice tells us that many abuse associations. Whose practice is this? Is it the ministry's practice and who abuses the work and business of the association? Are members of the association doing so or are certain activities not legally permitted through the association? I ask the question, on what grounds has the minister come to this conclusion and what kind of abuses are these? How much did the Ministry, if this is a practice that the minister learned in the work of the Ministry and the inspection services of the Ministry and other state bodies, file a report for commercial crimes and crimes if there were such abuses? Furthermore, I ask the question – how many inspections have been carried out, especially in financial terms? Probably very little, but the fact is that the minister said what I was quoting here. Next, I'll return to article 66, which speaks...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23677	Two minutes. Thank you. Member of the 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 88th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 89th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zeljko Tomic and Zoran Nikolic submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Milan Markovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, want to give the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23678	I think it's time to recap in a little longer exposure. Anyway, I want to thank everyone who participated in the debate, I think it was a good debate. We have different views on this, obviously, but that's not weird, that's normal. I think this law will be a good basis for development, i.e. to exercise the rights of our fellow citizens and all of us together for association. I think we need to speed up this merger and that the association of citizens is really very useful for a country and society. That's why I invite you all to vote this bill together. I think I've been convincing enough, I notice from the look on my fellow opposition and respected professor's face that it's going to be the way I expect it to be. So, I expect great support for the vote of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-18-0.u23679	I'm concluding a review of the draft law on associations in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law of principle, detail and generality in the day of voting. This concludes work for today. The paper continues on Tuesday, 23 June 2009, at 10.00 hours, with discussion in particular, on amendments to the proposal for a law on municipal police. Thank you.
