ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23680	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Here you go. Mr. Zeljko Tomic signed up, but Mr. Vladan Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23681	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a question for the Minister of Agriculture - what is the protection price of the wheat since the harvest is in progress? Will the wheat producers know that? It is mentioned that it must not be below ten dinars. The mills pay seven dinars, the peasants turn into second-class citizens again. I would like to remind you that agricultural participation in the gross national product is 24.6%, and that the allocations for agriculture from the budget are 2.4%, so ten times less. With this caucus regulation, it won't be over 1%. So, farmers are second-class citizens. A question for the same minister – will order be made regarding the production and purchase of milk? Does the Salford Investment Fund have a monopoly? Who is the majority owner of Salford, is one of the tycoons here? Why doesn't that get in the way? Why are only large dairy producers privileged, why are farmers who have one, two cows, no premiums, are they considered to be dying municipalities of these small producers, etc.? A question for the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister for Environmental Protection, a question for the entire government – will a solution be found for the stray dog problem? This has become a problem at the national level in Serbia. Dog pack wanders all over Serbia's cities. If you want, it's a civilization phenomenon; we want to go to Europe with angry dogs on the streets. It wouldn't be bad if we stopped commenting and sneezing members of the presidency, and that falls within the civilization level. Give me this time, please, I can't get used to the vice presidents and the smiling Mrs. Comic. I don't know what you're laughing at. This is sad. Where in Paris, Rome, London saw a pack of stray dogs? Every day they're full of newspapers -- they're biting people's dogs, women, children, etc., and we tend to enter Europe. Let the asylum be made, let the money be provided, let the owners of pets be punished. It's really nowhere in the world. I mentioned these great European cities. Nowhere in the Middle East, nowhere in Aman, Damascus, Beirut, New Delhi, Katmandu, in poor countries, I didn't get a chance to see that. That's what needs to get in the way. One question for the Minister for Local Self-Government – how will elections be held for local community councils? In many municipalities, the results of previous elections are copied; for some parties in the previous elections, the family will no longer vote. Therefore, will it be regulated that representatives of the councils of local communities and secretaries of local communities are elected, not named, or appointed? Another question, since I did not get an answer, for the wood industry "Bora Marković" in Obrenovac – it is in bankruptcy, it is not known whether it is sold, what about buildings, machines, repromation, finished products, but it has been published in the Trade Court... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... that for 335 workers, they are paid 10% of their claims for 23 salaries. But that's why the bankruptcy manager suggested paying him 26,000 euros for his work. (President: Time, Mr. Batic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23682	Mr. Miroslav Markicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23683	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, I will ask you, Madam President, for a notice, and it concerns the eternal topic of all people in the world and also in our country – citizens' equality. Are we equal citizens and are the constitutional provisions that determine this really respected in this House? At the end of my five-minute presentation, I'm going to ask you a question, and you're going to prove to everyone whether you as president of the most honorable and highest home in this country respects it. What's this about? We're witnessing these days that the rights of minors are being violated, but if a minor's mother is a well-known journalist, then everyone will rise up, and that's not right, and if a minor happens to be a father... And it's a widower, and if it's a working child, then it can be shown every night 20 and 30 times. Of course, we as the National Assembly, as MPs, should condemn both incidents. You see the difference in the equality of citizens. No word to lift. One guy who's done something that's unthinkable, which is rude, which makes us all feel miserable, every night he's on TV, and he's a minor. No one thought to say they were breaking the rights of minors. When it comes to a famous journalist's child, then we'll all rise up, and political parties, and government and all. Furthermore, I give you an example, these days, there are big giants, as the people say in my neighborhood, hip and hoof, for the rights of a lady named Joanka Broz, who had a pension of 150,000 dinars. The most tolerated minister, who solves so many issues, has no other job but now she should have a pension of 200,000 dinars just because her lawyer is a longtime adviser to the police minister. Where is the equality of citizens? All citizens know – if her "great husband" had lived another year, he would have ended up as Nikolae Ceausescu, and she as Elena Ceausescu, even as Imelda Markos, now that these topics are hundreds of dresses, jewelry and everything else. The most famous newspaper in the Balkans, with the longest tradition, is launching a campaign and, behold, the journalist who drives it, Jovanka Broz, is the aunt. Is that an accident? Madam President, I want you here to show that you are discriminatory towards ministers. You have warned one minister publicly, it is Mrs Samardzic, because she does not answer any parliamentary questions. I ask you to do the same thing and make a public announcement from that place to Mr. Petar Skundric, who will not answer my question for two months. It is about increasing the price of gas for households, which has more than 200,000 and several thousand economic operators, who use gas as energy for the economy. Is that your discrimination against ministers or ministers? So, you've made a public announcement to a minister from that place, and today I expect you to do the same for the Minister of Energy. I remind all of you here, my fellow MPs, there is a big robbery of Serbian citizens -- the moment the price of gas for households was up 60% on the world market was $450 for 1,000, now it's no longer $290, as I was saying, now it's $230. So, not that it would take 60% to get off, but to pay the citizens back in the last three months, because they were robbed. Therefore, Madam President, I expect from you that as a home here, we show that we are not being discriminatory, but that you are giving a public notice to the Minister of Energy, Mr Peter Skundric, who has not answered my question for two months. Believe me, I know that both your MPs' club and all the MPs' clubs are covered with telegrams, letters, e-mails from citizens who are bitter. I'll show you, if you're interested, the bill of a citizen who had consumption last month from one cubic and came to him with a bill of 300 dinars. Show yourselves, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23684	On matters of discrimination this house has, to my great pleasure, been declared. On your specific question, I ask the Minister of Energy to answer the question of MP Markicevic and I remind all those who are late, including this ministry and this professional service, that the relationship to this home should be much more correct. The word is Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23685	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mrs Malovic, co-workers and colleagues, Mr Maras has repeatedly asked questions about funding taxpayers' money from a party's message to the newly formed party or, as the party's president says, close to the party. The answer he received said that public enterprises, such as Luttria, Telekom, etc., are independent and carry out their marketing activities. In the context of the latest events and scandals, when the identity of a minor is revealed in one of these "judbo-mafija" newspapers, I ask concrete questions to Mr Cvetkovic, and one will also be for Mrs Malovic. I want Mr. Cvetkovic's answer. My question concerns only three "judo-mafija" media: "Pres", "Kurir" and "Justice". How much do the media owe you to the state? Two – I want an answer from Mr Cvetkovic as much as these media, and this is to be checked at the credit rating agency, they owe in general, to see how indivisible they are and that we MPs could eventually figure out how they finance themselves and continue to go out. Three -- I also want an answer to the question of how much money is coming into these media through marketing activities that are related to the budget, directly or indirectly. So I don't want an answer that, I don't know, the lottery is an independent organization, etc. I'm interested in companies that have 100% state capital or less, but in any case they have state capital, because the administrations of these companies, these public enterprises are being appointed by the government, members of the board of directors are being appointed by the government, and these are the sums of all taxpayers. I think that at a time when the government is considering increasing VAT, we need to know how much taxpayers' money these media are funding through public enterprises and close authorities marketing agencies? Fourthly, since news associations have some confusion about who's a journalist and who isn't here, I'm speaking in the context of an announced investigation against some so-called. a journalist for war crimes, because, for example, let the press associations issue statements... It is good that they issued statements and condemned what "Kurir" did to Olji Bećkovic and her underage son, but I remind you that two months ago it happened to LDP President Cedomir Jovanovic, so there were no statements from the press associations, I suppose, because Cedomir Jovanovic is not a journalist. When I remember they responded to the defilement of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Regional Development Mladjan Dinkic, I conclude that Dinkic probably secretly became a member of a journalistic association. But that aside, since media and associations obviously need help to figure out who's a journalist and who's a paid propagandist. I ask you, Mrs Malovic, to say in response, to help Mr Cvetkovic answer me how many trials are being conducted against these three media outlets, "Justice", "Kurira" and "Presa", according to private lawsuits. I'm not asking for any other data, but just a number, because only Cedomir Jovanovic filed over a hundred lawsuits against those media. It is sad if a citizen, like Olja Bećkovic or anyone who is damaged by the media that is financed by taxpayers' money, must seek justice in court, and that the media, with so many debts and the state and others, continue to work. If it's all the way it seems to me it is, then it's really asking what this is about, and who in power is helping to make this what's not yellow press, but before the brown press, it's still going on? I hope that the answer to these questions will not wait as long as Mr. Maras has been waiting for an answer to the question of "Justice". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23686	Mr. Zeljko Tomic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23687	I have a question for Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and for you, Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, as president of the Assembly. Today's press again, I would say, disturbs citizens of all Serbia, especially in the Vojvodina area, with speculation about the adoption of the Vojvodina statutes. I will remind you, President, that you said in public that the statutes would be on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in November of last year, so in December, in February of this year, in the spring session, but it is not there. We are from the opposition, which here in the Serbian Parliament, which we have spoken in public, and today we argue, that the agreements within the ruling coalition are gone, which is because of inter-party, inter-party misunderstandings and disagreements, which, due to other things, does not matter now. Today's press bids, from well-informed sources from the ruling coalition, what will be deleted from that statute voted by the AP Vojvodina Assembly and what will remain. How grotesque, how ridiculous, how sad it is that the ruling coalition is doing with the Vojvodina Statute is speaking and the following information – such as, some things that are unconstitutional will be deleted, some that are unconstitutional will remain. One that will remain is the Vojvodina Academy of Science, thanks to the personal support of one of the leaders of the ruling coalition that is sentimentalally tied to the institution. Please, this is written by the most investigative Serbian newspaper. My question is: How long will the ruling coalition in Serbia push the citizens of Serbia, Vojvodina and how long will it stall with these issues? If you can't make a deal with each other, you haven't shown, you haven't proved that you are state-of-the-art, which the Democratic Party of Serbia, in any case, has shown. We submitted our proposal for a statute, we submitted our bill on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, we asked for an emergency procedure, you're against it, you're waiting to make a deal. What's the deal? You broke the deadlines. Is that right? That's right. You've broken deadlines, everything you're doing is not good. I'm just asking, how long are you going to distract the citizens of this troubled country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23688	We at the Duke's statute, as you know, only give consent, and that agreement will be given when we get the jurisdiction law. My information is that it is simply incompatible with the sense that these two acts are not at the same session on the agenda. So this will happen, in my knowledge, very quickly, because the jurisdiction law is coming to an end. I wish it had been before, but it is obviously a law on jurisdiction that has caused great seriousness, for a reason it has caused great seriousness, and whether there will be some changes to the statutes or not, that will be decided by the Vojvodina parliament. Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I have to ask again when I will get answers to the questions that have already been asked. I'm already really worried about whether this body should exist in Serbia at all. You've made several promises to do everything. I suppose you, as president of the assembly, care that the dignity of this assembly is not destroyed in this way as it collapses. First of all, I ask the question – when will I get the answer regarding the Law on the property of the SK of Yugoslavia, which was brought in 2001, and the use of the property that had the SK and the list of those assets? It is about 300 objects owned by the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia. Given everything that's been happening to us for the past nine years, I'm expressing a serious concern that this property is the subject of enormous crime. It's something that should finally be resolved. I'm really asking you a question when I'm going to get an answer to that question. Are you able or not? If you're not, say it, so we know, that on Tuesdays and Thursdays we don't waste unnecessary time, that we don't distract you, or the MPs, or the citizens of Serbia, simply to understand what kind of state they live in. And to make it easier for them to understand what kind of state they live in, here, I'm going to ask another question about the upcoming reform within the judiciary. A few days ago, a huge storm broke out in Serbia's Bar of Lawyers, as the board was to propose a candidate and the assembly only apologises. In some ways, like here, as a whole in society, things only come down to a mere formality in order to achieve someone's goals. Because this reform of the judiciary that you predicted, which should give us real quality studies, will be just another way to form a party state, to return to time from 1945 to 1990. You, the government has prepared, or formed, a commission where Snezana Malovic, Nata Mesarovic, the famous judge who said when the verdict was issued: "We have received a verdict," you remember that, Bosko Ristic, MP of the Republika Srpska Assembly, a lawyer. This is absolutely true. Now I ask a simple question – in the disputes conducted by Bosko Ristic and his office, what will the judge's relationship to him be? Madam Minister, you should also answer this question. Is this a conflict of interest or not a conflict of interest? Do you have any cheeks? Bosko Ristic is on the committee to determine the likeness of judges and criteria! He says you've been commended by the Venice Commission. What criteria will be at stake when you propose some judges? Will that be the number of solved cases? He won't. Anyway, he says - dignity in performing a judicial function. We've had this before, it's called a moral-political resemblance. That's the problem we're facing, and you have to solve it, because we're going to get a full party state. It is no wonder, because if President Boris Tadic and all the functions he has compare with Josip Broz, he will make Joseph Broz a small child. When it comes to Boris Tadic, be careful: the president of the Democratic Party, the president of the Republic, the president of the National Security Council, a member of the Council on Infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia. Is there another function for Boris Tadic? Just to protect his character and act, to come out of the law for Boris Tadic, and we have a one-party state again. I'm asking you questions and I don't get answers, and it's in favor of us already being fat in a one-party state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23690	Time. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23691	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Parliament Speakers, a question for Parliament's president: whether, in my opinion, you should do so, give a warning measure to the MP who, in a public appearance outside parliament, in a newspaper statement insulted the Parliament's dignity, in the following way - namely, in a statement "News" pulled the parallel between the Montenegrin movement and the Ustasha movement, which is shameful. The Montenegrin movement is a law, passed by this assembly, equal to the Partizan movement. The MP, Zarko Korac, has elaborated on Serbia's overall anti-fascist role in World War II. We believe that the search for the grave of Draža Mihailovic and the obligation to find all the mass graves of the communist regime from 1944 to 1946 is a civilized, human obligation of the first order. We believe that without revealing the truth, which tells us clearly about the mass graves that are throughout Serbia, we cannot humanely reconcile with everything that happened later. I believe that for the sake of truth, for the sake of principle, parliament should be the institution most insistent on it, and in that sense I have asked this parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23692	I thank you, Mr. Jugovic. In accordance with Article 105, infringements at the session as president of the National Assembly may give a warning, word-absorbing, or away from the session. Businessly, I cannot react in the situations you're talking about, even if there were certain irregularities. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of the following MPs: Dr Nikola Krpić, Radoslav Mojsilović, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Milos Aligrudic. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for the session to be attended by Milan Markovic, State Administration and Local Government Minister Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister Sanja Cekovic, State Secretary of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government and Bratislava Djokic, Assistant Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government. I welcome them. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – PROPOST OF THE LAW ON COMMUNAL POLICE (individuals) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Nebojsa Rangelović, Judita Popović and Kenan Hajdarević, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelić, Aleksandra Janković, Dušan Marić, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksic, Mićo Rogović, Aleksandar Martinović, Zoran Antic, Gorana Pop-Lazić, Božidar Delić, Radiša Ilic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejčić, Dejan Mirović, Vladan Jeremić, Zoran Popović, Milan Dimitrijić, Nikola Lazić, Dobrislav Prelić, Milo Maksimović, Momimović, Momir Marković, Dujan Miražović, Dragović, Milović, Dragović, Mirović, Mirović, Milović, Mirović, Milović, Mirović, Milović, Milović, Milović, Milan Pović, Milan, Milan, Milan, Ivanaž Pović. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic and Jovan Palalic have withdrawn the amendment to Article 32 in writing. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23693	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1(1) of this bill. With my amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I propose that the municipal police exist in all municipalities in Serbia's territory. According to this bill, the municipal police will only exist in 24 municipalities that have gained the status of the city. After a series of privileges they already have, the cities will get another one. The rest of Serbia, which is about 140 municipalities and citizens living in them, which is most Serbian citizens, will practically be discriminated against. For the sake of citizens, I will briefly remind myself of the jobs that the municipal police will do: water supply, waste and atmospheric water disposal, public cleanliness, transport and disposal of municipal and other waste, maintenance of roads and streets, parking, transport of passengers in urban and suburban traffic, installation of business and business facilities, work of cafes and restaurants, loud music, etc. As you can see, it is essential issues for the functioning of local self-government, for the functioning of every settlement in Serbia. The question arises, given this bill, are the municipal issues I mentioned here only the major urban environments, such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Smederevo? Of course not. The same questions are plagued by local self-government and citizens in Prijepolje, Žabari, Velika Plana, Smederjevska Palanca. Is there a city center or a larger settlement in Serbia that has no problem with garbage dumps, usurping public areas, loud music or the work of catering facilities? Of course not. You have more small municipalities where some of the communal problems are much bigger than in certain cities. (President Gordana Komic: Two minutes. ) I would like to remind you that a month ago, the Assembly passed a dozen laws on ecology and environmental protection. Before and after the adoption of these laws, you convinced the public in Serbia, campaigned that it was the adoption of extremely important laws not only because of the acceleration of Euro-Atlantic integration, but also because of the lives of Serbian citizens. Now the question is, who's supposed to be the bearer of the business of implementing those laws? Of course, first of all, the municipal police. However, it will not be able to do that part of the job because it will not exist in most of Serbia's territory. Due to all of this, we from the Serbian Radical Party have submitted several dozen amendments, which we propose that the municipal police be established in all municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the adoption of our amendments is a prerequisite for Serbia to be cleaned from the trash, to end Serbia's contamination with garbage and to introduce a municipal order in the whole country. If order is introduced only in the area of 24 municipalities, in the area of 24 cities, in the nature of things, the rest of Serbia will be even greater than it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23694	Thank you. The time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group is 66 minutes. The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23695	Thank you. Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, in the principle debate we spoke and made objections to this law. We have a number of amendments that we have tried to correct the proposed text of the law, and I will look back at the need to pass this law and the elements that exist in the context of the first amendment to this bill. It is very interesting to look at the argument, because the mandatory paragraph, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, is the means necessary for the implementation of this law. It explains that the implementation of this law does not require financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. If municipalities and local self-governments and cities are not part of the budget, we can accept that, but surely for the introduction of such things and for the functioning of such a system it will be necessary to provide significant financial resources. Otherwise, we're going to have something that exists on paper, and it's essentially not working. Whether we are in a global economic crisis and whether this crisis has passed on to Serbia, I guess it is no longer a topic to think about. We have no record of how much the budgets of local self-government are being implemented, but we can assume, if the budget of the Republic of Serbia is in the situation in which it is, that the situation is similar with the budgets of local self-government. If the law comes into force immediately, then the big question is how will our municipalities and cities be able to apply such an important law. It's a well-known thing that even a good idea at the wrong time can only result in disaster. In principle, we support the need for municipalities to get that jurisdiction. We disagree with the way they were processed in this law and we tried to change that. Here we specifically point to a legal obligation that, in a few days' time, when this law comes into force, will exist for all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, which they will certainly not be able to meet because they cannot finance the other needs that exist. We've pointed many times at all these financial aspects, and eight, nine months ago, and six months ago, and a month and a half ago. Unfortunately, all of our appeals and what we say about economic policy do not yield much results. Once again, I will point to the situation in which Serbia is today. I'm talking about the financial aspect of this law. History repeats itself in ever shorter cycles. Today, just a month and a half after the budget rebalancing, we are from a macroeconomic point of view in the same situation as we were in January this year, i.e. on the eve of budget rebalancing. The data on fiscal movements is extremely unfavourable. It is now clear that the planned 2009 deficit level will not be achieved. Of course, the reasons are numerous, from the non-implementation of certain measures from the revised budget, although they are legal obligations, to the effects of now clearly greater than expected, the economic activity followed by the growth of individence and the grey economy falls. The encounter with the new reality is obviously very unpleasant, but it is also inevitable. The key question is whether we will repeat the mistake of the recent past and again decide to wait to see the macroeconomic situation, or whether we will discuss these problems when the IMF mission arrives, which will be at the end of August. By then, as at the beginning of this year, valuable time will again pass, the imbalance will deepen, and therapy will be more painful. True, there is one difference, for some key ones, for me sad and unprofessional – everything we do now will be our fault, for what will be done after the mission will be the fault of the IMF. Why, then, should we spoil our annual vacation when the IMF is still well and alertly monitoring the achievement of the programme's objectives? The reduction of domestic demand will affect tax revenues more negatively than we expected. The freezing of pensions and profits by the end of next year will reduce public spending, as well as the volume of loans from banks in the country and abroad. If this adds to the increase in the grey economy, as well as the non-payment of taxes, driven in part by the fact that the state itself is late with its obligations, it is difficult to predict to what level the total tax revenues will be reduced during this and the coming years. Two lessons can be learned from this. First, the response to the change in circumstances must be quick to avoid additional debt costs, and the second emphasis in adaptation should be on what we are safely and directly impacting, and these are expenditures. In this respect, financing of current credit consumption is not a confirmation of responsible and long-term sustainable fiscal policy. Waiting for God's better time to carry out imminent rationalizations and savings not only that it's unrealistic, but it's also irresponsible. If we do something today, it'll be a lot easier therapy than if we wait for the IMF and leave it for August. The most important task of the people who operate is to predict what will happen, at the very least, in the medium term, as well as to reduce the negative consequences immediately take concrete measures. If we know all that today, why wait for the IMF? We've said this many times. This is your last chance. Madam Minister, this letter was not written by the DSS, this is a direct address to the public sent by the governor of the NBS. If that's what the governor's saying, then the situation is extremely dangerous and this law is just one drop that will bring oil to the fire we're in right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23696	The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is 19 minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23697	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the agenda, we have another move of the socially irresponsible government, which is tasked with misleading citizens and fulfilling the promise of the president of our country, who has promised 5,000 jobs. Resolved by the urgent process, President Boris Tadic's promise that the government had given itself the right to build up the administration, both in the ministries and in other types of executive government, fills the number of jobs and opens them in a way that is not intended for financial opportunities and would only suit the government. Today we have a bill on municipal police, not community policy. We have a bill to form a police state, police cities where local sheriffs will have more jurisdiction than regular police, in which the mayor will be able to work with the police whatever he wants, to prescribe acts, to hire them, to control them, to think about what they will look like, what they will eat, what they will eat, how much punishment they will charge, whether they will meet bonuses, whether they work on percentages or not, we remain to see in the course of the next debate. What is at all problematic for this country and for the state in which the state is located is the solution of a socially irresponsible government in which the economy does not exist, agriculture does not exist, trade does not exist, budget costs exist, the accumulation of the administration exists, the filling of the budgets of certain political parties that give the quorum there, but what is not on the agenda of this session. As a solution to the problem, the government sent a law on the municipal police into the assembly procedure, thus trying to take the few sources of income to people who are acting otherwise, because the legal and normal way of surviving this socially irresponsible government did not allow them. I'll remind you that my amendment applies to the jurisdiction and rights of both cities and municipalities. I also have to say that as an SRS, we're not in favour of forming a municipal police force that's going to have a pendrection to foam, cuffs to bind, but we're absolutely in favour of communal order. This is what we will insist on through the amendments – that municipal enterprises, which there are many in municipalities and cities, do their job in accordance with the law. The law was passed in 1998. It's called the Community Labour Act, and it's exactly what they include in a city's communal activity. So, if we also considered that municipal inspectors were doing their job correctly, in accordance with the law, we would not need the establishment of a municipal police force at all. We have a series of illogicalities that we should resolve through the amendments, but unfortunately, the government had no ear to accept these amendments, whether for reasons the MPs of the opposition, or for reasons that this was not an order for them, or for reasons why they wanted the municipal police to control only individuals, in this case the mayors of the municipalities, will see further discussions. What is also important is that no one wants to question the cause of municipal problems in the territory of cities and municipalities. My amendment refers to the jurisdiction of both cities and municipalities. The municipalities, said counterpart Maric, are much more in need of municipal inspection services, which will operate in accordance with the law. Today you have a situation where a municipal inspector must not do his job, that large objects end up in a drawer, and that ordinary, small perpetrators of a crime are punished, those people who have abused the communal order by their own torment. I especially think of street traffickers, people who feed their families by reselling goods on the street, conditions that no one has provided them, their reason for being on the street at all, besides the socially responsible government. Some responsibilities are being cut, say, by the Law on Planning and Construction. The law on planning and building requires exactly what a construction and municipal inspector should do. If we take now the obligation the municipal police will have, we don't know what we're going to do with the communal inspectors in the local community. What is the division of citizens in the first and second order are rights – if you live in the city you can have everything, but then you have a payment which has additional items for the municipal police, and what is forbidden for citizens living in municipalities is the life of a decent man, and even if the law that was passed in 1998 is respected, let alone the introduction of a municipal police that needs to be "introduced" municipal order. If we take into account the fact that the municipal order is introduced into catering facilities, construction sites, public areas, parking lots, traffic, then we come to the simple conclusion that the municipal inspector will have the task just to fill the budget, to apply the means of coercion when necessary (and when necessary is not specified here), that he abuses the personal data of every citizen he has the right to legitimateize, to search vehicles, to take away objects, lawn mowers, or scissors, or sprays, if anyone draws on any fence, etc. Essentially, making a police state is a proposal for this law. This bill is not subject to any European Union funds, no loans, no financial conditions. It should, in fact, provide conditions from local self-government. Local self-government has no means for this kind of administration, for this kind of organization. That is even said by some officials of the Democratic Party who note that decentralisation works so that when you give someone jurisdiction then you should also give them money to implement it. If we have clear information here that there is no money – the cities didn't even get the money they were supposed to get from the budget – then it is clear that new congregations of cities, which until last year were municipalities, were unable to introduce this kind of administration in terms of municipal police. The communal police should assume the jurisdiction of all municipal institutions so far, in a way, to control them. This includes facilities, machines, vehicles, motor vehicles, and all that the municipalities and cities have in the matter of municipal activity. We have here information that one municipal police officer is enough for 5,000 citizens. I have to deny you at the very beginning, that's not true. First, you can't have 5,000 men in one place if you have a legal standard for a man to search a man, for a woman to search a woman. Five thousand citizens of the same half in one polling post or in one part of the city will not be found, which means there must be two municipal police officers on 5,000 voters or citizens at the start. If we also consider that an intern in a working relationship is six months or a year, until he passes the exam, and that he is in co-operation with a communal officer who has already passed the exam, it is already three people to five thousand citizens. If we also consider the size of some cities and municipalities, you will see that this number of police officers is far higher. It's a police state. It's a full army, with a pendejo and cuffs, with a badge. The city's assembly will decide what they will look like, and the mayor and city council will be their obligations and what kind of co-operation will be with the city's administrations. We have x examples that speak of abuse, but that's what I'm going to bring to you in the course of this debate. This amendment is a good amendment. He's tied to both cities and municipalities. Citizens should not be divided into citizens of the first and second order, depending on whether they are in the municipality or in the city. They should all have the same rights. And if the same rights were achieved only through legal norms that were so far in force, without the municipal police, there would be no communal disorder. The cause of communal disorder is corruption, criminality of the municipal police, individual inspectors, individual members of the internal affairs, and should be dealt with. If we haven't dealt with the members of the internal affairs that charge the fine on the scene when it comes to a traffic violation, how are we going to deal with a communal officer who's supposed to charge the fine on the spot? We'll consider that in a further discussion. For now, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23698	The time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group is 57 minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23699	This amendment by colleagues Alexic, like all amendments of the SRS, is going in one direction – we tried to draw attention to why this bill is not good. But this law has much more flaws than those expressed in this amendment. In the principle debate, I warned Minister Milan Markovic that such a law is anti-constitutional, as police can only relate to state authorities, not local self-government. The question is, how far will we get in Serbia if we introduce special, special police in every area? Now we can expect, probably, from Minister Dulic that in the law that he will present to us here the building police. We are in no condition, or you as a government are unable to organise that this country normally works because of a single, basic problem, and that is the problem of corruption. Then Minister Markovic tells us that it is necessary to create the authority that has so far been the municipal directors or municipal inspectors, and under this law will be the municipal police, and their authority should be created by the fact that they will be armed with bats and handcuffs. That's not good. You will see in practice, if there is any application of this law, given that he is, you will see in further discussion, in many ways inapplicable, how much trouble there will be in applying this law. The bats and foxes cannot be the authority of community officials, local self-government, but must be law enforcement and a determined fight against corruption and crime. It's obvious that in the current government, apart from the story of it, there's no willingness to really do it in action. These days, from that principle debate to this day, we've had a lot of people who are now in community inspection, inspectors and directors, and they absolutely supported our debate by claiming that a large number of them want to do their job honestly and honestly and in accordance with the law, but unfortunately, many municipal leaders don't allow it. You know, if one of the presidents of the municipality, a council member can get a citizen (of course, every citizen should have access to get to the office of his municipality) and force him to do what he did... I don't know, he put a shot on a public surface somewhere where it's not allowed, his shot can stand undisturbed, and the one next to him, even if he left a small amount of shot, will be punished, on his expense he'll get away, pay and fine and remove that shot. No one asks him, or accepts his argument that it is temporary because he is currently adapting his object, and this other one has no explanation why it stands there, no one touches him. So if you keep representing such attitudes, you're free of handcuffs, you're free of sticks. Handcuffs and bats will only lead to trouble on the street. I also asked Minister Markovic, I ask, and now – that this law was in force in a pre-election campaign for these last local elections, when the Democratic Party was removing the gigs in front of the Zemun Stock House, the gigs that were neatly set up in accordance with a contract concluded with the competent public firm "business space", what would happen if they were then municipal inspectors, that they were harassed by these people, that they were handcuffed by citizens, that they used the bat to remove them from there, that they were searched etc., and people were absolutely right? So you're causing problems to be solved physically. One member of the law even provides for what if death occurs during such an intervention. Unfortunately, you're making it possible by this law. The minister tried to explain, even smiled, and said it refers to a case where one of the stress can have a heart attack because a municipal policeman comes in with a stick and handcuffs he's going to put on him, to search him on the spot, in the middle of the street, etc. He tried to explain that the municipal police would do the same as the regular, normal police. That's not possible. The police have police stations. The state police don't have it, they have nowhere to search it. They can rob people's cars... If a man gets away from his car so he doesn't get ID'd by a cop, I'm talking about what's really going on in life, and by this law, that cop can rip his car apart, see what's in that car, take what he thinks he should take. There's gonna be a lot of trouble if, God forbid, there's an application of this law. What we also want to draw attention to is the question we asked Minister Markovic, who he gave us an unhinged answer to. In light of the proposal for this law, it states that no additional resources are needed in the budget for the implementation of this law. That's impossible. This law provides for special uniforms, sticks, handcuffs, professional examinations, special, special medical commissions, etc. And it's impossible there won't be any extra expenses. The minister said the budget is an unchangeable constant, which is impossible, especially in the state of Serbia where the second budget rebalancing is already being prepared. The Minister for Local Self-Government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have significantly reduced funds to local self-government and this is already a problem on the ground. We listen and read about it every day. It is literally the basic functioning of local self-government because of the state's attitude towards local self-government and because of such a so-called so-called state. decentralisation, which you're just writing about, and basically you're not doing anything about it. These new people who are employed must receive salaries from the budget. We don't see it in the bill, but the minister says -- local self-government will judge for themselves how much they can hire these municipal inspectors, police officers, so if they can't employ one of the 5,000 residents, let them employ less than that. This means that you are making order for the sake of this law, that you are aware that it will essentially change nothing, that it will not actually apply, but that you too, Madam Chairman and Madam President, can somewhere in the public opinion, say how much this law has passed this House. Stop it, gentlemen of the government, to propose laws that can only make citizens worse. Try to pay attention to the real problems of this society and this people. Offer us a concrete but real solution that will help employ people, which will help open up production facilities that will help create infrastructure, and pensioners get bigger pensions, not to release 10,000 employees per month. Try, for a change, to work in the interest of the citizens. And this law is bad, unconstitutional and inapplicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23700	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is 47 minutes and 30 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic. People's MP, it's my fault to run the electronic system. I'm sorry again, it's really not intentional.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23701	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the essence of our amendment to Article 2. It is clear and precise to determine the position of municipal police in the city administration. Of course, in the principle debate, we have made it clear that it is not possible to imagine the position of the municipal police within one administration with so many powers and responsibilities that the municipal police have. There is a misunderstanding between what the municipal police should do, among other things, to remind the citizens, because they will face it very quickly, to apply physical force, and the position of municipal police within the city's administration is really weak. We believe that a special administration should be formed within the city administration, which will be solely responsible for the affairs of the municipal police. What's interesting is the explanation we got from the government, why this amendment is being rejected. It is said that the concept envisioned by the bill, that the municipal police are part of one of the administrations, aims to ensure the effective and coherent work of the city administration authorities. What does that mean? That means, according to the government, if a special administration is formed, it will create problems, infunctioning of the entire city administration. I am sorry that Minister Milan Markovic is not here, I would like to point out that many other things will create problems in the effective and coherent functioning of a series of city administrations in Serbia. It is not the formation of a city administration that would deal with such important affairs the biggest problem for the functioning of city administrations. Many problems have been brought by the government of the Republic of Serbia to local self-government. I don't think any government before this government had this kind of attitude towards local self-government. It is not just an excuse, which is an excuse for everything, an excuse for incompetence and all possible problems that exist in society – the global economic crisis. This is where local self-government is systematically being suffocating. This is one of a series of laws that imposes additional financial resources on local self-government. The other day we discussed the Law on Regional Development, which also imposed additional financial resources on local self-government, although under the law local self-government will not be asked anything, but will allocate funds for some district associations. Now the government is moving away again and it says – you gentlemen in the cities solve the problem of the municipal police. How many municipal cops are there going to be? How much money is there? What if there's no money? No communal cops. The government of the Republic of Serbia says there are no funds in the budget, nor is the law providing for the Republic of Serbia to provide funds in the municipal police budget. At the same time, the government of the Republic of Serbia is making a decision to reduce the transfer funds. The additional problem, which we will only face and discuss, is that these reduced transfer funds have been allocated. Big problems will appear these days in local self-government. Local self-government has lost this policy to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which primarily concerns the financing of local self-government this year. This is a lost year for towns and municipalities in Serbia. They can't plan anything anymore, and they can't realize anything from what they've been planning. Big problems. Now, in such an atmosphere, we are passing a law that has not clearly defined the position of the municipal police; it has defined its competence in general, so that we will have major conflicts of jurisdiction between the inspector and the police themselves and, on the other hand, has imposed additional financial obligations on local self-government. I don't know if the government's representatives know what kind of problems local self-government is in. There's obviously no coordination. The Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government is dealing with technical jobs rationalising jobs, and now, we see, election laws. He probably has no contact with Minister Dragutinovic, who cuts budgets, cuts off transfer funds, without any criteria to share the money. At the same time, Prime Minister Mladjan Dinkic, the prime minister, is passing a new law on development where he completely, without any basis, excludes local self-government, but therefore gives them other powers and other obligations. So there is no coordination on this matter. Not to mention, no law has been passed on the property of local self-government. How are local self-government going to run development policy? Em's cut off their assets, but we haven't returned their property. Citizens are now expecting local self-government, they are the first to address them, although the greatest responsibility for the state of society in the government, but citizens expect local self-governments directly elected by their neighbours and friends to solve the problem. How do they solve it? These days we have a big campaign to solve the problem of wild dumps. They won't have anyone to take that waste away. The municipal police can write fines as much as they want, they won't do utility companies, which in large numbers of municipalities don't pay their salaries. It's a condition we now have in local self-government. I ask the question, does anyone in the government think about it? Not to mention that local self-governments are not yet raising their voice to the extent that they should, especially when it comes to the distribution of funds that exist. We have an example of the town of Pancheva, where people rightly say – where are the NIS sales assets transferred, 90% of these funds, to the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund? There, the city's assembly made a decision, given the NIS facilities that exist there, that these funds should be invested in the development of the city. Of course, there's no answer. We have no criteria. We don't know where the money's being spent. We took these funds from local self-government. Unfortunately, it is not Minister Markovic here to talk here as MPs, not only about this law, but about the general state of local self-government in cities and municipalities. I fear it will be the first system in Serbia to fall within a month, in two or three months, how much some municipalities can withstand with these reduced funds. Then we'll all ask ourselves what to do together. When meetings of the Committee on Local Self-Government were scheduled, ministers were on the run; they do not want to come and face these problems. Minister Dragutinovic will come to explain the criteria under which these reduced funds of local self-government are now allocated. You already have an announcement from Vojvodina that they will demand that the government's decision be changed. They are there, as the province government is organised, but it will happen very soon at the level of other local self-government in Serbia. This law, in this financial state, is completely inadmissible. You say, Serbia's budget has no money, and municipal police officers will be as much money as they can provide cities in Serbia. That's a big problem. I don't know if you've seen the problem and the situation. One more thing, that's what this amendment of ours refers to, the very municipal police force itself has completely demoted it, bringing it down to some position in the administration itself at the level of the city's administration. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to seriously change its policy, if at all it has the will and if it has any policy towards local self-government, and to do something, because otherwise local self-government will fall to its knees very quickly and will not be able to exercise the basic powers given to them by the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23702	Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23703	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this bill is based on a good idea, but I'm afraid the realization of this idea is Sisif's business. Such institutions exist in some developed countries, but they mean a significantly higher standard than those with Serbia, large funds and different habits, a different state of consciousness. This is a matter of our consciousness and our conscience, our habits, our customs and nature, but, on the other hand, the question of the collapsing of the provisions of this law with some other laws; if you will, the collegiations of the jurisdiction of what the municipal police should represent in relation to individual inspection services, on the one hand, and the regular police, on the other hand. It is the communal police or the concept of the municipal police as provided for by this law that is something between the inspection services and the police. I'm afraid that jurisdiction will break and I'm afraid the effects can be not positive, but very, very negative. Now the same level of force (I can't believe what certain provisions here contain) will be placed on the same level by professional police officers and people who, based on some course or course, will become members of the municipal police. You will have, in principle, party membership, the engagement of local kabadiahs who will become municipal police officers, dress up in uniforms and as some sheriffs lead the order; they will immediately come into conflict with the professional police, because they will say – this can, and this cannot, according to sympathy or antipathies. It can grow to be anarchy and a real chaos, for it will be—cadiya sues you, cadiya judges you. They will look through the fingers of those who have chosen them, have set them up, have given them uniforms, have given them pens. It's all gonna get out of hand, alive, so see. What's a spectrum of these responsibilities? Roads, traffic, dumps; I just mentioned stray dogs. To get to that level, we need huge money, and here it turns out that to apply this law, we won't need any financial resources. It's by itself nonsens. You form an institution that, by the text of this law, has a wide range of competences, but it's, I'd be free to say, total improvisation. Instead of rigorously applying the criminal provisions of certain laws, we are introducing a communal police force that will arbitrarily, I repeat, Kabadiahian, break something and solve these accumulated communal problems. I once asked the Minister of Environmental Protection about an environmentalist at the Land of the Ash of the Termopower plant, Nikola Tesla B, in the mouth. It was like the eclipse of the sun; in broad daylight it was dark, people were running into houses, closing down. There's ash in the freezer, and there's ash in the head of the cabbage or onion heads. The answer to the parliamentary question comes to me that an environmental inspector has come out after a few hours and that the degree of pollution within the limits of permitted values! It's a colorful lie. We have the inadequacy of the authorities of inspection services, the inadequate application of criminal provisions, and then, to cover all of this, we introduce the municipal police, which should exist in terms of higher standard and order, but to recruit from the ranks of the professional police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23704	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23705	Dear fellow MPs, certainly there is a need for communal order in our country and in cities and in municipalities, that is, in all settlements. In particular, that order should be reflected in the purity of these cities, so that there are no dumps at the entrance to every settlement. In some municipalities, there is greater municipal order, in some smaller, depending on how many citizens experience the municipality, this local self-government as their local self-government. Today in the municipalities there are municipal controllers, a communal inspection, who, if they trust citizens, can do their job properly. Achieving some municipal order, especially in the field of cleanliness, can most certainly contribute to this trust between citizens and local self-government. I believe that the municipal police that will be armed and able to apply force will certainly not, by force, gain the trust of the citizens and will not do their job as necessary, or in order to achieve greater municipal order. My colleague, Mico Rogovic, has submitted an amendment to Article 3, paragraph 3, which reads: "The head of the municipal police and municipal police officers in the work of the municipal police department have special powers laid down by this law... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” counterpart Mico Rogovic says there is a point to be put here, and the rest of the text: "including powers to use certain means of coercion" should be deleted. The government’s explanation for not accepting the amendment states: “The amendment is not accepted, because without the authority to use certain means of coercion it is not possible to achieve the purpose of the municipal police under Article 1 or to carry out the tasks of the Member State effectively. 4, 5 and 9. It's a bill of law. The nature and character of these businesses require the application of these powers. There is no problem with them being equipped by the municipal police, as well as that its members are previously trained for their application, and that training shall be checked in an examination for the conduct of operations and the application of the authority of the municipal police within the time limit of Article 48. It's a bill of law. “ Not to read this article 48, the article says that members of the municipal police take the exam after a year. Within that year, members of the municipal police have the right to apply force and learn how the job is to be done only by the police, not the municipal police. I think this is a proposal, i.e. This amendment to Mitce Rogovic was in place, and the government should have accepted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23706	Thank you. Mr Milan Avramović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23707	Article 3 after the word "legislative" says – including the powers to use certain means of coercion; if we take a Article 16 that says what a municipal officer can do – can impose a mandate, file a report to the competent authority for a criminal offence, file a request for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure and inform the other competent authority to take measures out of its jurisdiction, this is one of the members who comply with the powers of the regular police. What does "determined means of coercion" mean? Certain means of coercion in this article may be related to physical strength, bat or foxes, more specifically, plastic tensions that serve to bind a person; that is, Article 24 speaks of special equipment for performing police work. What kind of equipment does the police use to do their jobs? This indetermination in this law allows a municipal inspector to use tear gas, shield, helmet, anything used by regular police. You can't give these impertinences and impure bill proposals and members the opportunity to the municipal police to make it look like a fact-finding thing in practice and to be absolutely different on the ground. How will a communal officer feel the need to act physically and not have it to prove he didn't have that need? How is he going to guarantee that he had a need, how is he going to justify that someone didn't attack him, and he attacked him, or vice versa? By taking the strain and tying someone up? Who? The law does not foresee what public police laws should provide in countries of the region, Europe and the world. They're in absolute violation of jurisdiction. It'll be like in the movie, when that CIA agent comes in and tells some local sheriff - it's over now, we'll take the case. Who they're taking over the case and why, you don't know yet. The means of coercion are a term for abuse. The means of abuse can also be a rubber bullet, and a shining rocket and anything else. The means of coercion available to regular police cannot be used by the municipal police. That's why Article 3 remained inconclusive and should not be practiced. This is in favor of the fact, what we were saying – if you gave greater authority to the municipal inspectors to seduce the municipal order, 50% of the powers that a municipal police officer would have, in less than a month we would have communal order in the country, counting on no crime or corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23708	National MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Nebojsa Rangelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23709	Dear Madam President, the honourable representatives of the government, our amendment, that is, to propose amendments and to make laws in my opinion, is just the tip of the icy mountain of general problems called the unregulated issue of local self-government. What is our relationship to the existence of the municipal police and the existence of such a law? Of course it is necessary and, of course, that our relationship is positive, but we also think, as I said, that this is just the tip of the iceberg of a big problem whose solution is not seen because of the relationship to the problem in the perspective. I'm going to do a reading and ask for the time that our parliamentary group has on me. In accordance with our relationship with this law, the question of jurisdiction, capacity and resources is raised. The issue of jurisdiction – we will easily divide them, some of the provisions of the accompanying legislation and this law are unequivocal and as they are. However, as they will be executed, it is a great sign of the question, because we have experience of previous laws, some of which we have discussed, as well as municipal issues and certain segments of local self-government, because of the unregulated state of jurisdiction were inadmissible. Further, capacity. What are the capacities? Does local self-government have the capacity to enforce such a law? Do the accompanying legislation and sublegal acts provide opportunities for local self-government to manage the enforcement of these laws and to apply them in the right way? That question is also open to the municipal police law. In the end, the most serious issue is the asset issue. How will local self-government allow such an important problem, which is sublimed by this law, to be executed when all the burden of implementing this law has fallen to the resources of local self-government? I will, in terms of funds, a little dyspression, concerns in general the functioning of local self-government, the context of which is also the issue of the implementation of this law. Of course, I will take the opportunity to address this House as Nischli, and to address all MPs, not related to the membership of certain parties, who are from my city – what do they have to do with such an important issue? Is silence or a paradise relationship towards what the Government can and can give the Republic a picture of the loyalty of my colleagues, as well as a picture of the irresponsibility towards the people of Nis who have delegated them? There is also a question of the funds Nis received from the NIP. To remind you, Jagodina got more money than Nis did. Of course, that doesn't mean that Jagodina should get less money, she should get it as much as she was given it, but Nis, as a city with 300,000 inhabitants and as a university center, should really have a different status. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to consider this as well. Not to mention the issue of the airport and the motherly relationship between the capital and the Republic government on all these issues. In this context, the issue of applying the law on the municipal police and the question of the means to be provided for the application of this law. I would now return specifically to the amendment of our parliamentary group relating to Article 4 and Article 1 concerning the role of municipalities in the application of this law. To remind, along with Belgrade, the territory of the town of Nis is divided into municipalities. Nis has five municipalities. Since they exist they have not been regulated and have not fully defined their role as bearers of local self-government. It's a question of both this law and the application of this law. Accordingly, our amendment regarding the jurisdiction of the municipalities in the application of this law has been given. Our amendment was rejected by one of the government's semi-native arguments. I would ask the question, why did the Government have such a relationship with the specific problems presented in our amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23710	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing Mrs. Snezana Malovic is here as justice minister. I just want to find out that the Constitutional Court of Serbia a few days ago has declared the unconstitutional provisions of judicial laws that provide for a mandatory re-election of all judges by the end of this year. This confirmed what the Serbian Radical Party has been saying from the very beginning, what prominent constitutional rights theorists have claimed, what they told you from the society of European judges -- that such a norm is directly contrary to the Constitution of Serbia, but that it is directly opposed to your team, as you like to say, to European standards in the area of justice. As far as this bill is concerned, my colleagues have already highlighted the numerous anomalies this bill contains. Force and repression in one country can only be used by state authorities, primarily by police; state police in peacetime and military conditions. No one else. There are no constitutional possibilities to form any municipal police, municipal military, municipal courts, municipal prosecutors or anything like that. In a well-organised rule of law, the measures of coercion can only be used by the competent state authority, and not by all state authorities, but primarily by the police, or the MUP. It's the first grudge we have on this bill. Another complaint – even if the municipal police were constitutionally allowed, even if local self-government had enough resources to secure the work of the municipal police, and they did not, but even if they did, you, government gentlemen, discriminated against the citizens of Serbia. It is only enough to look at the start of this law, article 1 which speaks of what the municipal police should do – they should do business in matters of communal activity, environmental protection, people and goods and ensure protection and maintain order in the use of land, space, local roads, streets and other public facilities, as well as ensure the smooth implementation of the law of certain business in the city's jurisdiction. Tell me how business, i.e. problems in the field of municipal action, environmental protection, people and goods, maintaining order in land use, local roads, streets and other public buildings, etc. It only appears in cities and doesn't appear in municipalities? We all know that they appear equally in municipalities and cities and in the city of Belgrade. Why should citizens living in cities and in the city of Belgrade have the protection of municipal police, and people living, say, in municipalities should not have the protection of municipal police? Problems arise both in municipalities and in cities. So how is it possible that you have done this by disciplining and disdaining Serbian citizens? You made a direct distinction between citizens living in cities and citizens living in municipalities. When it comes to those living in cities, their problems in these areas that I have quoted should be resolved by the municipal police, and those living in local self-governments that do not have city status do not need municipal police. How is that possible? We all know there are such problems in all units of local self-government. Finally, in an explanation of the Serbian government why it does not accept certain amendments from the SRS MPs, I read that city municipalities are not units of local self-government. With this thesis, I first met a few months ago, when the minister of local self-government Mr. Milan Markovic at a session of the Committee on Local Self-Government (who had no quorum because the MPs of the ruling coalition did not want to come, and the problem of disbanding the Zemun Assembly was discussed) said one finding that was amazing to me at the time, and I still found it amazing today, which is that city municipalities are not the units of local self-government. If city municipalities aren't local self-government units, then the question is, what are they? You can't say that something isn't, but you have to give that something that exists and a positive one, to say what it is. So, what are city halls, what is Zemun, Old Town, Palilula, Rakovica, Vozdovac? Are those local self-government units? If not, how is it possible for these phantom political entities to be subject to the Law on Local Elections, which applies to local self-government units; how is the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units applied, how are many other laws normally applied to municipalities and cities in Serbia applied? Once again, we meet with the government's argument that city municipalities, allegedly according to the 2006 Constitution, are not units of local self-government, and the Constitution says well – local self-government units are municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I assume the city hall is also a municipality? I don't know what's going on here. To explain why no municipal police should exist in the city's municipalities, then you resort to that extremely incoherent explanation that the city's municipality is not a unit of local self-government. I would like to hear – I am interested not only as a MP, I am interested as a lawyer – what is the city municipality, what is its legal nature, what is its legal status, how is defined, what is the city municipality, what is the president of the city municipality, what are committees sitting in town halls, what are members of the municipal council in city municipalities, which are the laws applied to them, is there any parallel legislation in the Republic of Serbia that applies to urban municipalities? I haven't heard such legislation exist, but if you give me any valid arguments, I might believe it. So the bill you sent us is bad, however you look. It's unconstitutional, there's no financial resources in the republican budget, and they're not in most local self-government units either. City municipalities are municipalities, Madam Minister, you should know that, and you as a lawyer should draw attention to that to your government colleagues, that when they write these arguments, they take care of what they put on the paper. Finally, this bill regulates something that is not in any well-organized rule of law. You put the measures of repression and the means of coercion into the hands of non-state entities. What's next? To establish municipal courts? Will we have some short courts in cities and in the city of Belgrade? The very word the police are bound to the state. No one in the state can have the right to use coercion against citizens except the competent state authority, the Ministry of the Interior, and you here predict rubber sticks, foxes, who knows what. Tomorrow you'll suggest a baby car. Who's going to finance all this? You say -- you know, municipal police are needed for cities and the city of Belgrade, and you in cities do your best to know and know. So those who have money will have communal police, and those who have no money will not have communal police. It's not a system, Mrs. Malovic. The system is something that is uniformly arranged throughout Serbia. So, either they're all gonna have community police or no one's gonna have them. The city of Belgrade is probably because it's rich to have municipal police, and Nis, for example, won't have them. But then it's not the system. You do not need a law to do this; you were able to regulate the decisions of the congregations of the cities, so that you may leave them free; whoever has the money, let him set up the municipal police, whoever has no money, do not set it up. Like this, you were supposed to set up a system in Serbia with this bill of law. You did not educate him because it is obvious that most of the towns in Serbia will not be able to apply him for lack of money, not only in this year, but also in the next, and probably in the next few years. You discriminated against the citizens of Serbia because you say directly and clearly – the communal problems of people living in cities should be solved by the municipal police; you living in municipalities, who is to blame for living here, not living in local self-government units, living in cities and your communal problems would be managed by the municipal police.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23712	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment refers to the use of the means of coercion. For SNS, the use of coercion funds by the municipal police is unacceptable. I think that through this position of the First Article of the Fourth Law, you can see the urgency and desire of the legislator to identify the municipal police and the professional police. Namely, it is said that the competent authority, or a authorised organisation, will, if there are assumptions that the implementation of an executive decision will require the presence of a municipal police or the use of coercion funds, inform and call on the municipal police. So, the local self-government, if it assumes that it will not be able to make a peaceful decision, defines calling the municipal police and forcing the municipal police to use funds, not professional police. It is obvious that through a later session in the 2nd and 3rd attitude, you have the possibility that, unless the municipal police are able to do the job, professional police are invited. It's kind of demeaning the professional police, playing with this institute. We believe that the legislators of this law should not have taken the opportunity of the municipal police to use the means of coercion, because they are obviously aware themselves that the question is whether it will be capable, sufficiently trained to force and apply those funds. Therefore, I am sorry that you had no understanding of this amendment or of a few amendments that have a similar nature, to which the means of coercion are excluded from this law. I think you've made a big mistake, and the time and application of this law will show that we were right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23714	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23715	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in my interpretation of the amendments that I have submitted to Article 4, I will rely on the presentation of my predecessors, especially on the presentation of Master Martinovic, because I believe it is possible that there was also a good intention of the Government when it proposed one of these laws, but that the law is typically cabinetal and that it absolutely does not respect everything that the municipal inspection in its responsibilities is now (and from the day of the entry into force of this law and the municipal police) meets on the ground. So, if we start with what's their jurisdiction, the question is, why all this? Since the request of the parliamentary majority and many local self-government has not passed, and especially the provinces, that the police be in the jurisdiction of local self-government, such as that, for example, in England, but we have never been, and we believe that it should not be, this is the position of the SRS, we are now trying to create some spare police or some spare coercion that may be needed under certain circumstances by certain local self-governments. All of this is an attack on local self-government, and it's multiple, because it's unacceptable to explain that this is not something you need money for. It is unacceptable that no one has taken into account the consequences they may have for these people who will use the instruments of coercion, because we have experience that police officers, who are and how they are trained to enforce the coercion, can be victims of those to whom the coercion is being conducted. Now consider that here you have a man with medium professional training, who is not adequately trained, doesn't know all the skills and doesn't have all the knowledge that he should have if he wants to apply force, what can happen to him when we see kids in schools slap teachers today, when in red light he can get out of your car and beat your slaps again, especially if he thinks he's stronger because you're not going fast enough, so you're distracting him from driving 200 an hour in the city. So if you wanted to take this problem comparatively and see how it is in the world, you had to come from our social moment in which we are, even from the state of the nation, from the state of the nation. There are countries in the world that have volunteers who will approach the citizens and tell them – you can't throw garbage or butts or spit on the park and the public surface, and that citizen will also take it seriously because he knows he can report it and be punished in his pocket. Here you have a man who you simply "put" on the street with handcuffs and a pendreka, who will probably use it in a way that is not, after all, legal, regardless of this law against the Constitution, and who can also be the victim of the violence of the one to whom he implements it. The very psychophysical ability, what the doctor gives you as a belief that you are capable of doing some work, is not enough to give a communal officer these means of coercion and these powers that he has, without further training, which should be similar to police training. The other thing is that we have fought to raise the level of education of municipal inspectors and that municipal inspectors have been for many years, those who have been found with medium professional training, only municipal directors, without the authority to bring solutions, submit requests to the judge for violations and criminal charges, that they have had to have at least higher or higher professional equipment, and you are now destroying the municipal police at this level, and you are giving them this kind of authority. Isn't that kind of contradictory, and aren't we going back in some way? The second thing I wanted to say is that the discussion that should be in favor of the claim that we don't treat all local self-government in the same way, which, of course, is, you have to agree, unconstitutionally... Although I am sorry that you are here today, because with this law you do not have many points of contact; here you should sit down Minister Markovic and explain and defend this law, to give us answers to questions asked, but there you are, probably, as the free minister who may be closest to this matter today on the agenda. The municipalities, especially city municipalities, which by some miracle bear such a name, are not units of local self-government, will not have these municipal police officers, although they have 150,000, 170, 200,000 citizens, this will have the city of Belgrade, so we ask a logical question – why are they not called, say, neighborhoods, urban districts? Why are they even called municipalities, if they don't have all the personalities of one municipality that the Constitution says they should have? So instead of making it simpler and clearer, we're making it more and more confusing, so that in this country, you absolutely don't know who is who and what is what. The Constitutional Court, you know, isn't complete. Five judges missing. These ten guys work like this, I'm not giving a grade. But that shows how mature we are to take care of that institution, let alone take care of some lower level. Everything we do is in support of meeting some of the requirements or some of the standards of Europe, which forces us to pass some laws, not even if we need to bring them in, from all those specificities and some of the traditions that are important to our society. If we did that, we could pass a good law on the municipal police, and like this, this law will be very difficult to apply. You will see, there will be very harmful consequences, first those to which it applies, and also those to which this law applies. In addition, we are going again, as you can see, to increase the administration, and we have declared savings, a reduction in the number of employees, a reduction in wages. We're just hoarding the country. I would really be happy if someone from the government could go public and say how much the state owes, not abroad, to the IMF, to the World Bank, how much it owes within the state itself to banks, to companies and many who need to get some credit from the budget. Then we'd know where we really are. I think that precisely because of the state's behaviour, which is not able to service everything it occasionally promises, especially when it finds it interesting in some election campaigns, we have this situation that, let's say, banks have astronomical interest because the state of Serbia has been declared the country at the highest risk. Who gets to that? It's the state. So, government by its own measures. Remember the subsidized loans for apartments, how much was the interest of Serbian citizens, how much did the government use for promotional purposes? I know with confidence that the Government has not paid any money to these banks (of which I can't say very well, especially about foreign banks) from those interest payments that should have been paid in place of these citizens, so you can see why banks hold such high loans both for the economy and for the public. I've gone a little bit off the subject, but because I'm trying to prove that the state is not thinking for itself, given our potential, our environment, our society, our arrangement in various areas. Not to remind you of how we destroyed the Department of Accounting and Payment, the SDK, which was the best in Europe, which was doing great, just to make these banks that we're making a profit for them. So we're destroying something that was even above Europe's standards for profit... What our peasants would say is we're slaughtering ox for a kilo of meat. There's no need to do that. Pass it to Mr. Markovic. This law will probably be passed. There is no parliamentary majority that we could convince that this law is not good, that they will vote eventually for our amendments and be against this law. If they did so, it would show that parliament is performing its control and legislative role in relation to the government. But, like this, they're only there when they need to press "yes" buttons and vote every law the government sends us. The government is not always right and they would even have to admit when they are wrong and when they listen to MPs as representatives of the people. There are many of us who come from the middle where we have met specifically with this problem, and when we point out some shortcomings, you should go back and listen. It's never too late to pass a law like this, but first, it doesn't bring down the Constitution and secondly, it doesn't get expensive for the state and puts it in an unequal position of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23716	National MP Bozidar Delic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23717	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to have the creator of this law here, Mr. Minister of State and Local Self-Government, a little with the MPs to cross the arguments. Article 4 regulates that the municipal police have the right to exercise force, although the government argues in its argument quite the opposite. If Article 4 and reads more carefully, he calls all the time for provisions of the Police Act on the procedure for providing assistance in enforcement and sublegal regulation on how to conduct police work that is closer to the arrangement of this assistance. An absolutely communal officer has the right to use the means of coercion, in this case the bat, has the right to tie, use handcuffs, etc. What part of the law is bad? I don't see what this kind of jurisdiction will do to the municipal police. Perhaps they could deal with traffic problems or provide assistance to inspectors, not to be attacked by an inspector, but assistance in the execution measure absolutely, regardless of the presence of regular police, implies force. I ask the question – on what basis will the municipal officer use force of proportional resistance or its threat, or the person he protects? He's not capable of it, he's not trained. Nowhere in the law does it say if he has to go through any training, who's going through that training, what kind of training is that? A cop's been training for six months, a year, I don't want to get into that, but he's got training. This one doesn't have any. The question is, is he capable of assessing, because he didn't have training, which force he would use, and how threatened he was. I think this law should be withdrawn, it's seriously done. As a communal officer, you can't hire a person just on the basis of a competition, if you meet some minimum requirements. The Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Minister of the Interior can be agreed, so that the same centre is trained by municipal police officers, of course on the cost of the city, and not just that, of the 5,000 inhabitants, so we will hire. Let the city train its municipal police officers who will work, not like this – minimum conditions, primary school, force application, bats, cuffs, etc. You pull this bill, you do it seriously, and you put it back in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23718	National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Milos Radulovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Milos Radulovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23719	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a debate on a very important law, which according to the DSS Group is an extremely bad law. The legislator did not take care at all of the circumstances and conditions facing citizens and one city, so as to find adequate legal solutions that would contain this law. The essence of this amendment is that Article 4(2) of the 48-hour deadline is replaced by a 24-hour deadline for the simple reason we consider, given the obligations and what the public police are doing, that these deadlines should be shorter. The communal police deal with water supply, waste and atmospheric waters, public cleanliness, transport, municipal and other waste dumps. The inadequate and untimely resolution of these problems poses a danger to the citizens of the city, while at the same time it is not possible to react in a timely manner. What's amazing is the government's answer why it doesn't accept this amendment, where the relationship to the law itself is seen. In response to this amendment, it states that the amendment is not accepted because the deadline provided for in the proposal for a law is more realistic. I ask – what is real? Is it realistic to react in time, to make a decision to complete within 24 hours something that could endanger the citizens, or is it realistic to leave the case and to do some things that may have inconceivable consequences for the citizens of that city? While you're here, Mrs. Malovic, I expected to see Mr. Markovic's legislator here today, but while you're here, especially if you're the minister of justice, just one question. This is about the employment of 1,200 people -- 23 cities plus the city of Belgrade, according to the number of inhabitants, one municipal officer goes to 5,000 people, which is about 1,200 people we employ in this service. One question: Can any government authority hire someone without confirmation that they have not been convicted? No, I don't. Under this law on municipal police, people who are given terrible powers, even coercion, cuffs, batting can enter a working relationship if they are not sentenced to more than six months. Hypothetically, some local bully who has repeatedly used force, beaten people, sustained a sentence of 15-20 days, this way, especially if he belongs to a ruling majority or is a favorite of the ruling majority, can enter a working relationship. So, what do we have? We got a local bully, city sheriff. What's still to be applied and put into this law is to budget the funds for that city sheriff's horse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23720	Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Radisa Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a law on municipal police. Article 4 paragraph 3 is amended and reads: “If, due to physical resistance, enforcement is not possible or fails, despite the involvement of the municipal police, the competent authority of the city, or the municipality, or the authorised organisation, shall request the police to provide assistance in the implementation of the enforcement, in accordance with the Law on Police. “ The amendment to Article 4 refers to assistance in executions. In particular, the existing attitude 3 refers to how it is handled in the event of a need for the intervention of the municipal police, and when police assistance is needed to provide assistance in the executions. All of this is contained in point 4 and it is unnecessary for this member to be burdened with an existing position 3. We can now conclude that the police will soon begin to deal with municipal issues both when and when it is not necessary, given that the needs of the municipal police for police assistance will be high. We must note that this law will be an obvious example of discrimination between municipalities and cities. Cities can establish a municipal police force that will solve existing municipal problems, intervene on the ground, etc. However, the municipalities have not been given this right, although some municipalities are about as large as certain cities and also have a lot of communal problems. The Serbian Radical Party has pointed out the problem, and you will soon understand that you must amend this law unless you accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23722	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic-Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Pejcic Alexander, and then Mr. Krasic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23723	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Your Honor, Madam Minister, we have before us a proposal for a law on the municipal police. Otherwise, MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia have in principle criticised the law and certain legal provisions because they think they are not good. In fact, this law isn't worked out enough. We don't think this law defines the relationship between the municipal police and the various inspection services. In addition, this amendment to Article 5, which says that attitude 1: "Communal police are taking urgent measures to protect the environment, to protect against natural and other disasters, to protect against fires and other protections from the city's jurisdiction", etc. We believe that the municipal police are not sufficiently educated and trained to take emergency measures, especially with regard to the protection of citizens regarding fire protection and elemental disasters. In fact, it interferes with the work of certain professional services, especially fire departments, civil protection services, which, through the form of headquarters, convenes certain entities dealing with this problem. We believe that this amendment is good and that it should and should be accepted, because in this way it resolves the dilemmas of which the authorities have the communal police, and which authorities have the other services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23724	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23725	This amendment, and all those before and those who will come, shows, in fact, that MPs are making a great effort to convince the promoter to withdraw this bill. It's just that the promoter put everything, if I may say so, on paper and confessed. See the explanation: I the constitutional basis, and II the reasons for the law's passing; here is everything clear to you what it is about. The constitutional basis for such a bill does not exist. When I say "for a bill like this", I mean not the name bill, but the business and jurisdiction that should be carried out and which should be governed by this bill. I wouldn't quote what the promoter admitted, essentially, that it wasn't there. But what is interesting and what gives the right picture of what is behind this, the promoter says that local environments are in trouble and that there are some challenges for local environment security, that there are some international organisations that have considered this issue and that the idea of direct security prevention programmes has emerged for all residents. What are these problems, and what does the Proposer want with this law to solve? Here is what they stated: local traffic problems, vandalism, youth violence, violence in groups, noises, raids in apartments, garages, public buildings and business premises, damage to public and private property, etc. Excuse me, please, this is all an area where the real police should react, not the municipal police. The municipal police can't fight vandalism, they can't fight breaking into business rooms or private apartments. The promoter has confessed everything. Literally speaking, confessed. But Milan Markovic is a lecturer at Dragisic's university, a security expert, not local self-government. He's probably writing some master's work or something on this subject, so let's get it through here, because it fits the interests of Dragan Gilas, because he's unhappy with how police work in Belgrade. He said several times, if the city had jurisdiction over police affairs, they would also effectively end up with tents outside the presidency and traffic cuts because people strike because they want to live. That's the whole point of this story. Otherwise, the promoter admits, he says there is an institute in the existing Police Act, an instrument that addresses these issues in relation to local self-government – police, and he says that local self-government is authorised and obliged to submit proposals to police on human and property safety priorities, and provides for the possibility of setting up co-ordination bodies for co-operation, and even lists members of the Police Act that was adopted in 2005. When the police say, we can interpret in terms of authority. It's a monopoly of physical coercion. Each state looks, and not only looks, but has an obligation, not only on the basis of the Constitution, but also on the basis of international documents, that the monopoly narrows down to a precise and controlled number of officials who are authorized to do such jobs. That's where the military is, first of all, and that's where the police are. Beyond that, a monopoly of physical coercion is violence, regardless of who else is applying it, whether it's done by a municipal official, a circuit officer, why don't you tell the MP, the President of the Republic. No, authorized officials for monopoly physical coercion are, above all, police and military. This explanation sets out examples of how this has been resolved in other countries. There are countries where there are municipal police and where there are so-called. the republican, or state police. It's completely wrong here to take an example of Great Britain. What is prescribed in the UK and what is there is tradition is not so prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Police work is in the jurisdiction of the Republic. We still don't have in the regulations a variant that police affairs as part of decentralisation have been transferred to local self-government units. When some of the laws in the municipal area are passed on some powers to local self-government units, then powers are transferred from municipal activity, they cannot be transferred from police. If the logic of Gilas and Milan Markovic were to be accepted, then we should have a municipal army. That's inappropriate. A great shortage and what they couldn't solve is that you don't know who's overseeing the application of this law. At the end of this argument, it is well noted that the idea of the municipal police has been brought to life in Republika Srpska and Montenegro, but it is said - municipal police officers are performing municipal inspection tasks, with appropriate uniforms and all powers under the General Administrative Procedure Act. No police regulations. They're not authorized officials, in terms of police regulations. And here we are, except we don't have municipal tanks, someone said horses, because of the sheriffs, etc. This bill is deeply unconstitutional, contrary to the Constitution, contrary to basic principles. This "gymnastics" at first, with constitutional basis is wrong. The police affairs of a monopoly of physical coercion cannot be passed on to anyone. They are the original affairs in the jurisdiction of police and officials authorized in front of the police. They can't be passed on to others. That's a fact. There's a start and there's an end. That's why this law is colorful. He paints, and imagine the situation: 5,000 people in the city should be provided by a municipal police officer. Calculate how much Belgrade there will be, how many municipal police officers -- more than there are regular police officers in Belgrade, as part of the MUP, police stations and a Belgrade-related centre. What does the Democratic Party want? You want your party army or your militia, your paramilition forces? What are you hiding so you need a communal cop who can arrest and bring in, break into apartments, etc? That's not allowed. I'm just surprised that someone from the National Assembly Presidency... However, I am not surprised, the Legislative Committee should simply return the bill to the legislator and say – something like this cannot. The constitution does not allow these opportunities for the transactions of the physical coercion to be transferred to others. Because if that were the logic, then the ones who climb the bandits would be authorized to arrest the one who's connected to the power, and they can't do it, the most they can do is shut down and file criminal charges. Amazing things come to mind. First and foremost, bad Law of Local Self-Government. You know how funny it looks when someone calls for the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 24, where the possibility of community cops is foreseen? You've given the terms of a communal officer, but not with the powers of a police officer, not part of the authority of a police officer, but with the authority of a communal inspector. Secondly, the municipal inspection and that future municipal police officer with communal competences is a major pressure instrument primarily on public enterprises of local importance, to pave the way, to fix the hole, to adhere to the driving order, to observe in the extreme case of how the bus should look, to inform where the water broke down to intervene, etc. No, you've completely turned around, so you want the municipal police to build a security service for Boris Tadic while he's in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23726	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does he want the word Mr. Jeremic? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, based on today's assembly debate over the proposed law on municipal police and some reasoned views of the SRS parliamentary group, on the jurisdiction and authority of the municipal police, as well as the very name of municipal police and non-regulatory in this area when it comes to local environments, it is clear that it would most entirely be that the bill promoter withdraws such a proposal, because it certainly will not contribute to solving problems in this area. One of the amendments to the essential nature, which refers to one of these three general objections the SRS Group has, I have also submitted. It is the first position of the 6th member of the proposed law, which, in our opinion, should be changed and it is said that "communal police are working with citizens in accordance with this law and other regulations governing the conduct of municipal and other affairs in the city's jurisdiction", which is accompanied by "municipalities". Mladenovac municipality, which I usually come from, is one of the suburban municipalities of Belgrade and I know how many problems there are in this area, but I cannot accept the reasons for the amendment and any other amendments relating to the absence of this service in local self-government, because this principled approach is actually an attempt to regulate this area in the local environments, local self-governments, not only in the city. In addition, every item mentioned in the proposed law on municipal police, when it comes to doing business, has its own support in the local environments as well. I believe that there are even greater needs for the existence of one of these services – although this would be more appropriate when it comes to municipal inspection, not the police with such powers and competencies – in local areas, but in the capital. It is clear that the size and importance of issues and problems depend not solely on the number of inhabitants, but also on other circumstances and factors. We believe that the proposed legislative solution will absolutely not contribute to the settlement of this area, especially when it comes to local self-government. I'm going to repeat once again that the most complete thing would be to withdraw such a bill on the municipal police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23728	The time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group is 16 minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23729	Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed, by amendment, that a reduced obligation be made by a communal officer who receives an oral application from a certain citizen to report the same form of an official note. By accepting the amendment, it would reduce the possibility that a communal officer who receives the same forgetting or deliberately ignoring it. However, in order for the purpose of this amendment to be fully achieved, it is necessary for the Government to adopt an amendment to Article 29 of this Law, essentially the same amendment, which was submitted by my fellow professor. Goran Mihajlović. Article 29 provides that anyone can file a complaint to the municipal police. It doesn't say what, it turns out the complaint can be oral. Accordingly, counterpart Mihajlovic submitted the following amendment – if the complaint is filed orally, the municipal police are obliged to immediately discuss the same matter as the official note. It is entirely illogical for the Government to accept my amendment to Article 6 without accepting this amendment to Article 29. This is particularly illogical in the light of the content of Article 3, which reads: “The head of the municipal police, or the authorised person, of his position and of any measures he has taken, must inform the applicant of the submission of the written reply within 15 days of the date of receipt of the complaint. “ What does this mean? The head of the municipal police is required to write a written report to the person who filed the application. It's illogical for the chief to write a report if there's no written application. Someone can ask a question tomorrow - excuse me, sir, on which basis and to whom you wrote this written report. He can't say – based on the fact that Janko or Marko met me on the street and complained verbally about the work of the municipal police. This amendment must be accepted. It is logical to make one official note that someone has filed a complaint about the work of the municipal police.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23730	Anyone else want a word? If not, National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23731	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really think it is a shame that Minister Milan Markovic is not here today to answer a number of questions, and I believe that Mrs Malovic, as a lawyer, has already understood from the remarks to the first five members of this law how wrong he is, how inaccurate, how indecisive he is, how indecisive he is, how indifference he is. Indeed, if Milan Markovic were there, I think we would convince him to withdraw this law from the procedure, because if adopted in the voting day, he will open up a series of problems in local self-government. Of course, this law is one of a series of laws showing the government's attitude towards local self-government. I have the impression that the Minister of Local Self-Government is not aware of the size of the affairs of local self-government, how many problems there are in local self-government and what opportunities certain cities have. To avoid confusion, this law is certainly necessary, but not in this way. I think the concept is completely wrong, as Mr. Shami likes to say it – the logic of this law is wrong, and it will certainly prove when and if it is applied in practice at all. It is full of illogicalness in the sense that certain responsibilities are not defined in a precise way, which is still not clear to me whether the municipal police are part of the city's administration, special service, who will do it, how many people will do it, how they will be paid. We have submitted a series of amendments to this bill, which unfortunately are not accepted. A single DSS amendment has been accepted, which in some ways is essential because it includes the city's assembly in making strategic plans and decisions to be implemented by the municipal police. On Article 6, we have submitted an amendment that citizens can file reports to the municipal police, not petitions and proposals, because who would do this job? If a citizen notices a particular problem, if there is a wild dump, it is likely logical that he submits a report to the municipal police, not to gather residents of that part of the city or rural settlement, they write a petition and then try to solve their problem through petitions. The Government cannot, in its reasons, be called upon by a member of the Constitution which guarantees the right for citizens to write petitions to state and competent authorities. We don't think this is a good explanation. We should try to define in this way the clear affairs of the municipal police that, when they get their application, they have to react in a short time. What's amazing is that this law does not contain in its reasoning the financial resources that will be needed for its application, from buying technical equipment, from uniforms to people who need to do this job, from their training, education, continuous training. We'll be in a position that city halls won't have the funds in their budget to predict municipal police officers. counterpart Radulovic said that in Serbia, 1,200 people should do this job. Given the significantly reduced transfer funds to local self - administrations, local self - administrations will not be able to put in place a municipal police force, or some may decide to hire volunteers who will equip their pendejos and handcuffs and let them do some work, so God help us when such people appear on the ground.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23732	The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is eight minutes and thirty seconds. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23733	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to take advantage of the time my parliamentary group has, I do not know exactly how much it is, as part of this amendment. As I understand it by reading this law, the intensity of this law is prevention and security at the local level, with this prevention and security, in fact, coming down to cities, or the city of Belgrade. The question arises, why not calculate another kind of local self-government, such as municipalities? I understand that the Law on Local Self-Government has announced, that is to say, the adoption of one such law on the municipal police, which provided for the municipal police only for the cities. But it doesn't make sense why cities would get municipal police, not municipalities, if it's really necessary to do something in the field of prevention and security. As for this prevention and security, the government's interesting argument is why the law was proposed. Among other things, among the most important security problems in which the role of local communities is seen are local traffic problems, vandalism, youth violence, violence groups, noises, raids in apartments, garages, public buildings and business premises. The problem, however, is that there is, in fact, intertwining the jurisdiction of the municipal police and the regular police. It is the regular police who are responsible for reacting if a crime is reported, and you will allow it to be a crime when someone falls into someone's locked apartment, garage or something like that. This could be led into serious crimes, and I don't know how the municipal police could handle these situations. Article 50 states that this law enters into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication, however, it shall apply six months after the entry into force. What does that mean? In those six months, you will train people to do the serious things that members of the regular police are doing right now, and not any of them, because if this Article 16 is read, The proposal for a law on municipal police, for example, includes warning, oral order, identity checks, bringing in, looking at faces and objects, temporary confiscation of cases, video surveillance, use of means of coercion. All this is done by members of the municipal police, who should be trained within six months of the entry into force of this law. I think it is a little vague and illogical, especially when part of that Article 16 also takes into account Article 20, which says: “If a municipal police officer cannot determine the identity of a person by verifying Article 19 of this Act, the person will, without delay, bring it to the competent authority to determine his identity. “ In practice, then, you can get into a situation where, say, someone who didn’t take a ID card toss a cigarette cigarette on the street, so a municipal policeman gets brought in because he doesn’t have a ID and can’t be identified, so what are we going to do? So we use force against citizens. Instead of moving towards force, coercion as little as possible in the practice of citizens, we are actually introducing another possibility that this citizen, in any way, would be put in a position to defend himself against a force enforcement body, even if it were a municipal police officer. It's completely pointless because, I say, a communal officer is really able, by the way. 16 and 20, to act whenever he thinks it's necessary to bring someone in for the slightest offense he's committed, because, my God, that's contrary to the municipal order. Therefore, if, in addition to these members that I have already cited, Article 33, which surrounds these illogicalities that appear in the law, which refers to professional training, we are in a position to create a parallel police force next to the existing regular police force, which has great competences, which is unprofessional and not qualified for the job. Therefore, I find the law inconclusive, that it will create confusing situations. When you analyse this Article 4 that speaks of the assistance of the municipal police to the authorities of the city, that assistance is allowed and possible in case something cannot be done without the use of force. In this last view, it is stated that unless the force is enough, we are only talking to the police. What are we doing? We're introducing a parallel force, a parallel application of coercion against a citizen. Otherwise, in this legislative proposal, I did not find provisions that directly refer to what happens if the municipal police determine that a certain offence has been committed, whether the municipal police approach the application to the competent law enforcement authority. I guess so. If that's the case, then I can point out another illogicality. As part of the judicial reform, we are in a position to reduce the number of judges for violations. For example, in Zrenjanin, the number of misdemeanor judges was reduced to 11 and the authorities for the offences were given to judge also in the cases of tax, customs and foreign offences. Therefore, if we have already reduced the number of judges by four, so 25% of the existing number of infringement judges, and we predict that they are also solving violations in municipal areas, in addition to these foreign, customs and other violations, I do not believe that we will succeed in achieving the aim of the legislator, which is prevention and security in cities and the city of Belgrade. I'm undermining again, it's really illogical that this municipal police, if they think it's such a good solution, is not being introduced into the municipalities. Because if it's something good for the city, why don't we do it so well in the municipalities? Otherwise, referring to this amendment, I would point out that we should oblige the competent authority, the municipal police, to respond within three days to a certain application, to inform the citizen of the outcome of the action without delay, and no later than three days, not to allow the possibility of an infinite delay in the response. If we restrict that obligation to the shortest period of time, we still give some opportunity and opportunity to complete and realize certain things and that whoever is interested in a certain period finds out what happened in connection with a certain irregularity and irregularity. Therefore, I do not see why we should not adopt this amendment, which proposes to amend that provision only as regards the time limit of the response.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23734	The time available to the LDP parliamentary group is five minutes. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal for a law on municipal police, we submit an amendment that reads in Article 6(3) after the word "request" and the word "written" is added. Article 6(3) states: "Communal police are obliged to inform citizens, at their request, of the outcome of the proceedings," and I am asking my amendment to inform citizens of the outcome of the citizens' conduct in writing. The government's explanation for why the amendment is denied is unclear. Among other things, it says: “Accepting the amendments would not establish the obligation of the municipal police to notify only in writing, but at the same time limit the right of citizens to receive the requested answer (if they wish) orally, directly or through means of communication. “ In order to ensure greater responsibility and efficiency of the municipal police in handling the objections and suggestions they receive from citizens or legal entities, there must be a legal obligation for the police to inform citizens, or legal persons in writing. Under this bill, a municipal police officer has great authority, wears a bat, cuffs, confiscation of objects and property, even this law provides that an intervention can lead to death, and at the same time a municipal officer has almost no obligation. How is it possible that there are no obligations of a communal officer to inform the citizens in writing of the resolution of their demands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23736	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić-Markovic, Donka Banovic, Nikola Lazic and Milan Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23737	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that it is becoming a practice in the Assembly that the proposing representative is not in the room when amendments are discussed. So was the last working day of last week, when we had the law on associations, when Mr. Minister Milan Markovic was staying outside the hall for several hours and at our insistence on showing up in the O.R. he didn't show up. Again, we have that the proposing representative, Mrs. Snezana Malovic, is not in the O.R. when we are discussing a very important law. I think this bill has been sent to the assembly procedure with one clear goal – that this law is not being applied. So he's so written that he's simply inapplicable in practice. When you look at the fourth part of this bill, or the means needed to implement this law, you come up with one fact, that is, the first sentence, which reads: "For the implementation of this law, no additional funds are needed in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. “ It’s perfectly clear in the law. How do you think this law applies without additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget? Who's gonna get the uniforms? Who's gonna get the markings, the vehicles, the water facilities? I think you're going to impose on local self-government to get planes. How far are you going? So when one government is incompetent and irresponsible, it resorts to a single asset, which is making an illusion that it is doing something, and essentially does nothing, it only looks at how it will stick its hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens. What have you done with the transfer funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget for local self-government? First, in many local self-governments, in some cities you have more employees in local administrations in these municipalities, or cities, and that number is almost equal to the number of people who work in the economy. That's because you had to set up your coalition partners. This is how the government, which is composed of 18 parties that have different political interests, and one common interest, is the material interest to place as many staff as possible of individual parties on certain functions and to do certain jobs. It's basically an illusion. So this law is absolutely inadmissible. In most discussions, the MPs had a proposal that was completely reasonable and realistic – withdraw this law. This law doesn't look like anything. And when you get a proposal from the MPs to fix this bill a little bit, then we get answers from the government that are simply ridiculous. I will not comment on the reason for the rejection of this amendment. This shows that there is no desire in the ruling coalition to repair such a miracle of the law at least in one small segment, to make a language change, to be understood by those who read it. But since this law has not been read by a proposing representative, it is neither read by the committees responsible (where the parliamentary majority has a majority), so is the fate of this law – it will be completely inapplicable. That's why I once again urge this law to withdraw from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23738	The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is six minutes and twenty seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nebojsa Rangelovic, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23739	As part of this amendment, I would refer to the fact that today, in the steam that we are in, when we daily increase the excise on fuel, when the fuel literally collects once a week, when the inflation that has been designed at a certain level is obviously going through, when we do not have the means for some basic, existential needs of this country and this society, we have passed one of these laws on the municipal police, without which we have been able to live quite well so far. The competencies of the municipal police are very similar to the responsibilities of the regular police; in many ways these responsibilities are intertwined and there are likely to be some misunderstandings and confusions when this law is applied. So when we are in such a situation as we are in because of the global economic crisis and because of the local crisis we have been in back for twenty years, then it is funny to say in the government's explanation that the implementation of this law does not require additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So how are we going to finance the uniforms of these communal police officers, how are we going to finance the means of transport of these municipal police officers, how are we going to finance the rooms where they're going to stay, how are we going to finance everything that is necessary for the regular work of the municipal police? In the next position, it is said that the municipal police will come up with certain funds, will have their own source of funds based on the collection, likely, of the criminal penalties they will find themselves earning. Therefore, for the future, a new imposition is envisaged for Serbian citizens, who are still quite like this, as far as taxes and non-poverty are concerned, affected by the current crisis. I think this law is somewhat unnecessary and excessive for now, especially because we have laws, such as the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, the statutes of the AP Vojvodina, which are waiting in line to finally regulate the sublaws and laws, which was otherwise mandatory, under the Constitutional Law, to do by the end of December 2008. It is obvious that the existing government is unable to comply with its regulations with the Constitution, has not so far confirmed the Statute of Vojvodina, which has been waiting patiently in line since October 2008, and the jurisdiction law has not reached its turn. This law on the municipal police really couldn't be a priority compared to many of the necessary jobs that the government has had to finish by now. I would really draw attention to the executive authority that when it adopts this kind of law, which in one part of it is repressive, regardless of the fact that prevention and security are the basic objectives of the law, the repression will make a very bad impression, especially that the repression is linked, in fact, to monetary expenditure, so it affects the city's direct citizen. I'm saying, only in town, because a citizen may be threatened by a communal cop who's suddenly gonna jump around a corner, like traffic cops are doing right now, jumping up behind bushes along the road and stuff. And for the slightest form of violation, fines are followed, financial expenses. We are coming into a situation where this country is increasingly turning to repression, rather than accepting some European values that it swears to, but obviously just declaratively. It would be good to put the benefit of the citizens first, and everything else in second, as far as possible in the environment in which we live.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23740	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The LDP parliamentary group took advantage of the time available to it as a parliamentary group in the debate in particular. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23741	Ladies and gentlemen of the People’s Parliament, paragraph 3, says: “The forms and ways of co-operation of the municipal police and city inspection services are being prescribed by the city’s assembly. “ We are all witnesses, for example, to how the City Assembly in Belgrade works, what a number of abuses, machinations and violations of laws have just been implemented in the Assembly of the City of Belgrade, how the City Assembly works, how municipalities are kidnapped, how budget funds are provided and how they are deployed. I will give you only one parameter as the majority abuse is done in the Belgrade City Assembly, and this is the following example: for the Savki municipality there are 89,000,000 dinars in the budget, for the municipality of Zemun for capital investment there are 52,000,000 dinars; the municipality of Zemun has fewer than 138,000 voters, and the municipality of Savski venac 47,000 and some voters. The following comparison: for the purpose of spending the municipalities of Savski Venac received 175,000 dinars, the municipality of Zemun received 166,000,000 dinars for the purpose of consumption. Here is a parameter for comparison, for example, where the central government and power of the Democratic Party, on the municipality of Stari Grad – the total amount of funds that has the Municipality of Stari Grad is 1,431,000,000 dinars, is so distributed from the city budget for the municipality of Stari Grad, and the total amount of funds that has the municipality of Zemun, with 138,000 voters, compared to the Old City that has less than 60,000, is 686,000,000 dinars. This is how the Belgrade City Assembly works, and this Article 7 says that the way and forms of co-operation between the municipal police and city inspection services are closer prescribed by the city's assembly. I'll remind you of just one example, how excellent the municipal police were when Biden was in Belgrade. Then the municipal police cleaned up the entire Street of Prince Miloš in less than 24 hours – no vehicle, no container, no bag, no garbage, no window could be opened. At that time, the municipal police, assisted by regular police and all utility companies, were able to do the job properly, and now the municipal police are unable to do the job because some new segment of the party's employment from the Democratic Party should be introduced. I'll give you another example regarding the mayor. The mayor's been the chief sheriff in the past week to solve parking problems on the Sava coast. In addition to the intervention brigades, Parking Services and employees in the company solved the problem of parking on green areas and on the Sava coast. When it started, in a way, the conflict between the faces that parked the vehicles... To be clear, we in the SRS are not for municipal riots and parking where anyone gets to, but considering that the city is just guilty of not providing parking space, because it did not provide garages, because it introduced high prices into the Parking Service, then no wonder where and how the citizens park. The mayor reacted like this – I will read to you briefly, in order to use as much time as possible for the other members of the law, he says – the police defused the angry young man and put handcuffs on him, but soon it turns out that the groom at the wedding was being held at the time, or on a certain raft, and on Gilas's request (here is how regular police co-operates with the mayor) the young man was released. There, however, was no end to the mayor's torments, the weddings continued to detest, and out of the crowd was heard, Mayor, brother, we read for you, and now you, as Gilas replied to them that the law is the same for all. How is the law the same for everyone if they let him go? Here's how the mayor executes justice with an intervention police brigade and all "Parking Service". Imagine what kind of justice he'll have with the municipal police when he takes out people who get married, from a wedding, to move their vehicles. Be careful what he says – the weddings continued to grieve because, as they claim, they were deceived by the owners of the rafts who told them they could freely park vehicles on the pier. The mayor suggested that they give punishment to the mentioned boss because he deceived them. Look at the solution, the municipal police have the task, first of all, to make police cities, to keep the Democratic Party safe in those jobs that are not available to the public, and secondly, to fill the budget with "beating" penalties where it should and where it should not be, abuse this kind of co-operation of the municipal police with the regular one, prescribed by the Assembly of the City, in which most of them have DS, especially acts that are closer to the mayor with the Minister of the Interior; this tells you enough about what abuse is at hand. So, once again, what you don't need to believe in is just the co-operation of the City Assembly and any other institution in this country. If the City Assembly has managed illegally to kidnap a municipality, Zemun, to introduce a forced administration there, to call elections for a local self-government, for a city municipality in Belgrade, then you can see what the City Assembly is and what its work is looked at. This amendment to my colleague Buha, should be accepted. It refers to municipalities and congregations of cities, so as not to divide citizens, because all citizens have equal rights, and also to protection against communal disorder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23742	The time available to the SRS Parliamentary Group is nine minutes. The 8th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23743	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 2 on which I submitted the amendment reads: “When it is necessary to carry out tasks under the jurisdiction of the municipal police, the police will, on a reasoned request, provide personal data for citizens, vehicle data and other records in accordance with the law. “ Please pay attention to this formulation – a reasoned request. As you know, the reasoned request may be an oral reasoned request and may be a written reasoned request. It's absolutely illogical, and I think it's contrary to the law, that someone in the police archive is giving personal information, data on someone's personal matter, based solely on someone's oral request. That leaves room for various abuses. It may occur that the Commissioner of the National Police is delivering your personal data to a person who will abuse it, using it for some anti-cancer shop. I think it's necessary to specify, the promoter probably meant it, but he failed to think of a reasoned written request. Accordingly, I have submitted an amendment to insert the word "written" between these two words. I will take this opportunity to refer to the provision of this bill that each of the 24 cities determines the appearance of the uniform of their municipal police. That's, to say the least, totally unserious. When Serbia was as serious as it was, you had three types of uniforms on the streets -- military, police and firemen's uniform. On the one hand, it caused a sense of security among citizens, and on the other hand, it gave people a sense of meaning, providing them with a certain kind of authority. We are witnessing that the last ten years in major cities, Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, and then in smaller places, various uniforms of various security agencies appear on the streets. When you see a uniformed face, you can only guess if it was Private Dragan Sutanovac, Officer Ivica Dacic, a KFOR member or SFOR who, based on that shameful law, was given the opportunity to cross Serbia's territory, whether it was a Pink Panther group member, a member of the Arkan's "Tigers" or a security guard. Simply, Serbian citizens will no longer be able to identify officials, who is on the street a police officer, who is a fireman, who is a municipal police officer. On top of that, 24 different uniforms will come out on the streets of Serbia. In theory, a municipal police officer in Belgrade may wear a yellow uniform, in Novi Sad orange, in Leskovac red and white, perhaps if the chief cheers for "Red Star" there, in Užica uniform of oker paint, etc. I really think this is unserious, that it should be prescribed that the single municipal police that exists in the territory of the Serbian state wear a unique uniform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23744	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is seven minutes and thirty seconds. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Dimitrijevic, Nikola Lazic, Milica Vojic-Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Donka Banović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23745	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The title above Article 8 is "Co-operation with the Police". This member should regulate co-operation between this militia or the sheriff's department and the regular police. However, this member does not. Namely, the member consists of three bets. Our amendment is that we suggest that Section 3 be deleted. I will read this view: “To develop mutual co-operation between the municipal police and the police, the mayor can agree with the interior minister to bring appropriate acts of co-operation and establish co-ordination bodies of importance to achieve common goals. “ The word “can ” is used here, and there is no obligation for the mayor to achieve some form of co-operation through this sublegal act, or through an appropriate act of co-operation. It's all the way here. Coordinate bodies. So there's even a majority. You have 24 cities, 24 mayors, so that's where 24 forms of co-operation with the police can happen. That, according to us, can create quite a mess, 24 different models of co-operation. What's unusual about the explanation why this amendment was rejected... And this happens very often, that the legislator, in the absence of the right arguments, sends us, to the MPs or MPs who have submitted the amendment, a very incomprehensible argument. I will also read this: “Amendment is not accepted. The envisaged solution in Article 8. The draft law is comprehensive and in everything consistent with the existing solution set out in Article 188. A police law establishing the proper authority of the interior minister. Consequentially, there are also legal guarantees for best practice. The acts will be bipartisan, will not depend on the mayor's finding, nor will it make a big mess, as is not the case with the former application of Article 188. The law of the police. “ This is not where I submitted my amendment to the Law on Police, but rather the proposal for a law on municipal police. Therefore, use of words such as “coherently”, “consequently” etc. Obviously, it serves only to confuse those who read the explanation, so I would ask the promoter to make future explanations clear, not to ask for explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23746	The time available to the DSS Parliamentary Group is five minutes. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Saša Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23747	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, amendment to the proposal for a law on the municipal police I have filed in front of the SNS provides for the erasure of Article 10's position. In fact, there was a technical error here, because what I'm going to talk about and the amendment itself refers to item 3 (but it doesn't matter that much now), which refers to the means of coercion that are provided through this law. I believe that the means of coercion can only be made available by members of the MUP, for a number of reasons. The basic reason would certainly be the training that potential municipal police officers should, or must pass. On the other hand, there is a question of the effect they would have left on the citizens. Would the carrying of these bats and fox citizens consider it a provocation and would these communal inspectors practically create reluctance? The competencies of the municipal police are not sufficiently defined, and given that their responsibilities are intertwined with the police, the need for funds to be coerced is raised. I have to express my doubts about the justification of these measures, because I believe that nothing will change this law in the efficiency and response of the competent authorities regarding the threat of property, public order and peace, etc. If the Ministry's idea was to protect a communal officer as an individual, it's even worse. With that stick, and without firearms, I must point out that in no case am I in favour of carrying firearms open or arming communal police officers, you make up clay pigeons, or they will not be protected, nor will those rods be allowed to use. The fact is that in Serbia, unfortunately, citizens are shooting at real cops, not at a municipal police officer. What does that mean? It means that municipal police officers will charge fines to people who sell cabbage outside of the drinking place, and they will turn their heads from those who seem to be troubled. The best example of the senseless provision of a law regarding a means of coercion might be fishers. Let me remind you that recently armed attacks were carried out on fishermen, hand grenades tied to their nets, and so forth. What's gonna happen to the communal cops, who are really covering a lot more areas? Describing the proposal for a law on municipal police in the Serbian Parliament, Minister Milan Markovic said the municipal police would be at the service of citizens and solve problems that make their daily lives worse, such as coffee shop noise, irregular dog walking, unconscious traffic behaviour and public area cleanliness. Now these communal cops need bats and cuffs to punish citizens who are improperly walking dogs, disrupting the purity of public surfaces, etc. The Serbian Progressive Party cannot vote for a bill that will apply, especially in these provisions of the law, much more damage than benefits. For all the reasons that I have stated, you should consider erasing members who involve the means of coercion and accept the amendment that my colleagues from the SNS and I have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23748	The time available for the Progress Group is 17 minutes and 30 seconds. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23749	Serbian citizens, happy New 1984. It seems that “the Great Brother ” decided not only to observe you but also to take specific measures. It seems that the far-sighted George Orwell, writing the bestseller, had in mind, or appeared to a man, that sometimes some state would apply his principles from a book. Or the writers of this law and the creators of this system in Serbia read a lot of George Orwell, so they liked it, and then they began to apply what was in his book. Imagine the situation that a mayor who, for example, calls himself the Duke and who is the mayor of Zrenjanin, is in a position to arrest him for some of his actions. He's got a police officer who has the right to pendejo, to arrest, to fight, and to bring him in. Imagine the clash between the police and the municipal police under the direct authority of the mayor. Since you have failed, gentlemen of the government, to bring the police down to the level of the cities, to the level of the municipalities, and to hand over to the mayors in your hands, you have set out to create another militia and militia in this way. I wouldn't be surprised if tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, when this law comes into force, a few months later, you could pass laws for other activities and other utility carriers, so that, let's say, we can be arrested by city clean-up workers for throwing a pick-up on the street, so that we can be arrested by dogs if the dog barks out of the yard, to be arrested by the foresters, to be arrested by field guards. What are you bringing Serbia to, gentlemen of power? To the police state. What are you bringing Serbia to? To a state that will have 40 types of police. It's the only way to get a job at the police, and if it's gonna be communal, is it gonna be like this, like this. No one under the Constitution has the right under the law to enforce a coercion against citizens other than the MUP and the state police. Everything else is a farce, and everything else is a way of attracting a few more opportunities to intimidate Serbian citizens. You're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23750	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the proposed amendment, the position of Article 11, as amended, reads: "In line with the strategic plan, the municipal police make up annual work plans and deliver them to the city, or municipal council for adoption. “ The importance of the introduction of municipal police in settlements that do not have the status of the city does not have to be particularly explained. The reason for the proposal is that most municipalities do not have the capacity to assume these responsibilities. What capacity are needed for the tasks that municipal services are doing anyway? Their only resources for all jobs are drastically reduced, if those capacities were thought of. All of this can be adapted to the needs of individual municipalities in line with the area, population and other specificities. For example, the association of several neighbouring municipalities with the common municipal police could be envisaged. How come there's no capacity for municipal police, but there's a capacity for financial police? Is this gradually and gradually shared by Serbia already? People from municipal towns or provinceans, as citizens call them, may be uncomfortably surprised by the search, detention, confiscation of property, by the use of physical force by some unformed persons who are not police officers, in situations that are unknown to them because this law does not exist for them. It's written only for cities and is used in cities. Faced only with a communal inspection, whose powers are completely different, people who do not live in cities know that in the event of any violations they can only deal with regular police, or members of the MUP. Here is the act of discrimination and the beginning of regionalization of the state, as strange as that may be to anyone. Tomorrow we can expect proposals for laws that regulate other areas of life, which will only apply in certain areas and regions. Very important, insurmountable differences between cities, municipalities, districts, regions and excuses for passing such laws will always be. It may be the most trivial reasons, but enough for new divisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23752	Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Milos Radulović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23753	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This is essentially one of the two amendments the government has accepted. We have submitted an amendment to Article 49, and we will get to that member later, where we are asking for a new position, which is: “The city's assembly gives consent to the municipal police strategic plan. “ He is just likened to what is accepted, this amendment. Article 49 says: "The city council, on a proposal from the chief of the municipal police, will bring the first strategic plan of the municipal police no later than two years after the date of entry into force of this law. “ It is normal, according to analogy, that if this DSS amendment is accepted, a second position, which states that the city’s assembly gives consent to this strategic plan. One more question, Madam Minister, I didn't hear you well before: must the people who are employed in the authorities of the state administration, before receiving them in a working relationship, be given confirmation that they are not convicted? That's what it takes for the public to know. Please answer this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23754	Anybody else answer for a word? Minister Malovic wants a word. Just one push on the key. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23755	Since I am here instead of my fellow State Administration Minister and Local Self-Government Minister, on your question, it makes no sense for me to have someone admitted to the State Service convicted, but the provision of the Bill was made in accordance with the Police Act which stipulates that a person who has been sentenced to a sentence of less than three months in prison could be employed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23756	Anyone else want a word? Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I said in my first address about this law, it seems to me that this law was written by children who were playing. I leave it to Mr. Markovic once he's serious, so he starts doing his job as a minister, puts his little nose down and becomes a man and accepts his mistakes. The real crime is what you wrote in this explanation, i.e. the one who wrote the argument lied to Mr. Cvetkovic, the Prime Minister, who signed it, would be a disgrace to say, one false thing. Explains why my amendment is not accepted: “The amendment is not accepted. Conditions laid down in Article 14. The bill is legal (special and general) but among the general conditions referred to in Article 14. The draft law is also a condition laid down in Article 6(6) of the Labour Relations Act in State Authorities, according to which these persons must also meet the conditions laid down in other regulations or acts on the systematisation of their posts in the Authority, both at the time of entry into employment and at the time of deployment to the mentioned posts by application of Article 14. The Act on Working Relations in State Authorities." First, to be clear, employees of local self-government authorities are not subject to the Law on employees of state bodies, unless, in particular, it is regulated by some law. The law calls for Article 14 and the legislator argues that the Law on Labour in State Authorities is applicable. I will read Article 14(1) so that the citizens of Serbia and also the parliamentary majority who will vote for this law know what kind of government they have: "For the work of the chief of municipal police, employees must have acquired a higher education in second-degree studies, i.e. in basic studies of at least four years and at least five years of work experience in the profession", in which the profession does not say anywhere, even if someone wrote - on security matters, "as well as to meet the general conditions prescribed for working in the city's authorities". So, not in the authorities of the state administration, as it stands in this explanation. So, the city's systematization determines which conditions must be met by the head of the municipal police. Since the systematization is prescribed by the mayor, why couldn't he write in that systematization, and there's no legal obstacle to writing it, that the chief of the municipal police could be an academic painter, a dramatist, an archaeologist, not to mention? There's no legal impediment to put it in the system. We're going to have a situation where someone who's a good friend of the mayor, if he's got a degree in any college, will meet the conditions of being chief of communal police. We can talk about it when it comes to the head of some departments, but here we are talking about a chief whose officials will be directly in touch with citizens and who have the right to apply force to citizens. Then Minister Markovic, who is the creator of this law, is one small child to whom you gave authority, so he plays with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23758	The time available for the Progress Group is 15 minutes and 30 seconds. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23759	In addition to all that I have said about my previous amendment, there is also an explanation given for the amendment to Article 15, which was submitted by my fellow MP, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Article 15 concerns the deployment of the Chief of Police. The promoter is asking for the chief of the municipal police to be deployed by the head of the city's single authority, i.e. the administration educated for a particular area in which the municipal police are composed. The council members in the city assembly will not be able to influence the election of the chief of municipal police. This way, except there will be some kind of contest, which does not guarantee that a qualified, professional and moral person will do this job, but exclusively the decision of local political parties and mayors who will be appointed chief of the municipal police... The amendment requires that the head of the municipal police propose the mayor, so that we know who will be responsible, who is in direct contact with the citizens as the highest representative of local government, not the mayor of municipal or city administration, who has no direct communication and who still does not have the greatest responsibility for the functioning of local self-government, in this case neither the municipal police. We've asked for an amendment to assign the chief to the assembly. Why not? Let the mayor propose him, let the majority support this mayor, the councilman, propose him, let that person be qualified for the job, let it be cast out before the representatives of the opposition, and let the mayor push himself before the representatives of the opposition, if his proposal is not right. It is simply because of the public debate that he takes care of the professional training and moral qualities of the chief of municipal police. Understand, people, this law makes you a parapolitan. Therefore, the work of that authority must be much more controlled by the public, the citizens, the councilors, than by any other law you make. That's why I think, as I said about the previous amendment, that little kids played with it and made one of these bad laws. I'm just asking a question - what happens when a municipal police officer or chief of the municipal police oversteps powers, especially when it comes to the use of force and, God forbid, someone dies? That's what you're playing with.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23760	The time available to the parliamentary group is twelve minutes. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23761	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our concept of how we see the position of the municipal police and the chief of the municipal police in the structure of the municipal government differs from what the government has proposed. As we have exposed when it comes to the amendment to Article 2, we want to strengthen the position of the municipal police when it comes to the city administration, to be one of the administrations within the city administrations and, of course, the position of the Commissioner of the municipal police himself. We see that several of the last amendments are precisely on the trail, in which way the person and the service that will have such great authority to apply force, to bring, to order, to examine objects and things, to strengthen their legitimacy and to act seriously in front of citizens from the point of view of their position in the structure of local authorities. In this regard, the amendment was also submitted when it comes to the appointment of the chief of the municipal police. It's just, a lot of things, when it comes to the positions of individual bodies of local self-government, we need to get serious this way. This whole law, when we discussed in principle, was presented not only as fulfilling the obligations of the Law on Local Self-Government, but also as a further step, as the Government wants to say, in the process of decentralisation; simply, a series of laws, a series of decisions the Government has made, the policy it leads is decentralisation. Indeed, the question arises, just when it comes to the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are we on the verge of a fundamental decentralisation in Serbia? And of course, meeting the obligations of the Constitution, because I'm the Constitution talking about it. Today we spoke here, during the period when questions were asked to the representatives of the government, why there is no agenda for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina. We received an answer – because there is no law on the transfer of jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. I would like to remind the National Assembly and the public of Serbia that the Democratic Party of Serbia has referred to the assembly procedure of the proposal for a law on the transfer of jurisdiction. As the President of the Assembly has said, we cannot pass the statute, give consent, which is already in the assembly procedure, because there is no law. Here's the law, put our bill on the agenda and put it on the agenda, if you may, the draft statute. Here I use the opportunity, given that Mrs. Snezana Malovic, Minister of Justice, member of a task force or coordination body for the development of jurisdiction laws, to ask – what is the problem? Why isn't the law of jurisdiction, after the adoption of the statutes at the Vojvodina Assembly in February, still on the agenda? What is such a problem to establish jurisdiction in accordance with the Constitution? The Democratic Party did so within a relatively short period of time and all these powers, please check, are directly in agreement with all constitutional provisions. But the entire government, with all its apparatus, is unable to do such a single bill. I have an impression, and that's probably the public's impression, that it's a one-piercing relationship between trade between the province's administration and the government, who's going to take more jurisdiction to avoid creating a conflict within the ruling coalition itself. Otherwise, you can't explain this really unconstitutional position. You have a series of decisions made by the province administration; they spend resources, and they are not defined the powers that it needs, based on these funds, to realize. It is the direct responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It just can't be explained to the public why it's happening. I simply want to point out that this is not only one way not to fulfil the obligations of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but is one way not to go into the decentralisation process. In addition to all these financial problems you've made with local self-government, we can't even achieve the autonomy that we have under the Constitution. So, the big problems... And I would like to get an answer, as it has been speculating in public for several days, especially since the visit of the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic to Novi Sad, when it will be a statute. We and the public of Serbia from government representatives, Ms. Malovic, who is competent, is working on the law, should get a final answer when there will be a law on jurisdiction in the assembly procedure. I think we need to establish a fair and correct relationship between the MPs and the executive authority. What's the problem? We'd like, all of us here, to hear what the problem is, what's the problem with defining jurisdiction in accordance with the Constitution; it's been more than ten months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23762	The remaining time available to the DSS Group is two minutes. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23763	Dear People's MPs, respected citizens, we have before us a proposal for a law on the municipal police proposed by the government. I would just like to remind you that most of the members of the government who proposed this law up to a year ago, more precisely up to ten years ago, called this Serbia a police state, said more than 80,000 police officers have been employed in Serbia who are harassing Serbian citizens. But it turns out that it's not true, and by adopting this law, we're going to get, in the right sense, a police state. By adopting this law, we will put more burden on the local budget, and hence the citizens. The municipalities need efficient existing services, communal inspections, which in most cases do not carry out their work in accordance with law and requirements. My amendment refers to Article 15(2), which is amended and reads: “The head of the organisational unit shall appoint the head of the single authority of the city, or municipal administration, or administrations educated for a particular area in which the municipal police are composed, on the basis of a proposal from the chief of the municipal police. ” Explanation – municipal and other issues and problems whose resolution under this bill is in the jurisdiction of the municipal police to an equal extent exists in all local self-governments, regardless of whether they have the status of the city or municipalities. The size and importance of these issues and problems depends not on the size of local self-government and the number of its inhabitants or the size of the city area itself, but also on a number of other circumstances and factors. Accordingly, the existence of municipal police only in cities, i.e. denying the right of municipalities to have their own municipal police, would represent their discrimination and indirect discrimination against citizens living in them, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The government has not accepted this proposal. I would like to stress that in this set of laws that are on the agenda, many committees, such as the Competition Protection Commission, the Commission's advice, the State Aid Control Commission, the National Council for Regional Development, the National Agency for Regional Development, the Regional Development Council, the Regional Development Agency, and the district agency, and the municipal police, are all imposed on the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23764	The time available to the SRS parliamentary group is six minutes, and the DSS Parliamentary Group, the authorised representative of MP Jovan Palalic, has, within 15 minutes, seven minutes left, and the parliamentary group has eight minutes left. It is a time used by the MP as an authorised representative, that is, the time used by the parliamentary group. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Babic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, the purpose of submitting this amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SNS Group - Forward Serbia to Article 16. The proposal for a law on the municipal police is to reduce the repressive authority of the municipal police. This amendment provides for the suspension of the possibility of the municipal police to verify the identity of private persons, the examination of persons and objects, the temporary confiscation of cases, as well as the use of means of coercion and this physical force, official batons and binding agents. Why? In Article 32, paragraph 1 proposed by the law, as one of the conditions for the conduct of a municipal police officer's affairs, provided that a municipal police officer should not be sentenced to a prison sentence for more than six months. In this way, you predict that a municipal police officer may be sentenced to jail for up to six months. What does that really mean? That according to this law, a person who, for example, has been convicted of embezzlement, theft, robbery, body injury, not once, but more than once, because this law does not provide for the cumulative punishment of these six months, but partial, to have broad powers, broad repressive powers and opportunities. Madam Minister, this way, there is a possibility that by deciding the mayor's lesser criminal, but still a criminal, he will have the right to stop people on the street, legislators, bring them in, take away the good ones, but also to use the means of coercion and physical force. Does this mean that the possible scenario by which such a convicted criminal, who has now become a communal officer, is going to meet him on the street of a representative of the MUP who caught him doing a crime or a representative of your ministry, the judge who prosecuted him, whose punishment is probably not satisfied, and using the same physical force and bats to create a new criminal act and harass someone who may have thrown the paper past the waste can? Is such a scenario possible? Is something like that normal? I don't think so. Is this law good? Of course not. On the other hand, Article 9(5) provides that the tasks of the municipal police are to support the implementation of regulations that ensure the smooth conduct of life in the city, the preservation of city goods and the execution of other tasks from the city's jurisdiction. Does the bill promoter, the government of the Republic of Serbia, in this way form a corpus of dressed persons of the criminal past, armed with sticks, which will, under the form of ensuring the uninterrupted life of the city, break down the protests of an increasing number of dissatisfied Serbian citizens who seek their rights in Germany's street in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia or in front of the president's building on Andric's crown? Are you in any way trying to defend indefensiblely, trying to defend the government of the Republic of Serbia led by Mladjan Dinkic and G17 Plus? That is impossible and therefore SNS MPs will vote against this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23766	The time available to the Progress Group for Serbia is ten minutes. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Momcilo Duvnjak. The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on a proposal from the SRS, and on the basis of Article 147. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal for a Law on the Communist Police, I submit an amendment – Article 16 paragraph 1 point 6) after the word "retraction" is added to the words "and guardianship". Article 16 of the proposed law reads: “In the conduct of municipal police affairs, a municipal police officer has the following powers... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” This article has eight points, and point 6) reads: “temporary confiscation of objects. ” My proposal is – temporary confiscation and preservation of objects. In order to avoid unwitting treatment of a municipal police officer, municipal police and a competent authority with taken-off cases, which could lead to damages, which could result in not only harming the one from whom the object was seized and the payment of the same, but also destroying evidence, it is necessary that there is a obligation of a municipal police officer, municipal police and a competent authority to temporarily confiscate the cases against damage. I don't see any reason why this amendment of mine won't be accepted in the voting day. Gentlemen of the ruling coalition, you who propose these laws, we of the SRS are not for this municipal police law because it is extremely bad. If you are already bringing it, do not separate the cities from the municipalities, do not divide the citizens into the citizens of the first and second order. We all know that we have more communal problems in the municipalities, in those small municipalities than in the cities. Who are your municipal officers here, with a six-month course, with pendrels, cuffs and everything else? We'll have chaos in the streets and in the cities. Where will the municipal police be financed from? Those cities that have money will have communal police, and those who don't. This law is certainly impossible to apply in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23768	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a message from Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in front of the NS Parliamentary Group, we have submitted an amendment to Article 17 where we asked for Article 2 to be added to Article 3, which reads: "Periodicly, through means of public information, citizens are alerted to acts that will be sanctioned by the municipal police." Since it is being introduced, as we have all observed here, one parapolitan in the state that will function in a very specific way, and certainly directly, primarily conflicting, relation to the citizens, then it must be clear to the citizens what will be the subject of sanctioning. It is very often necessary to mention, check and remind what will be the subject of sanctioning by municipal police officers and what even citizens will be able to do in their everyday use of their urban needs. What's usually a European standard, as this is promoted... It is not enough to be a European standard, all other standards must comply with European standards so that a European standard of this kind can live, above all, because it is directly funded by citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the budget. Just in reason for the adoption of this law, in order for citizens to know what it means for them, he says: "The implementation of this law does not require additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In Belgrade's cities and cities, however, additional resources should be provided for education and the start of the work of the municipal police, including the means to obtain uniforms, labels and equipment for work, as well as for training and training of municipal police officers. The amount of these funds will depend primarily on the definition of cities and cities of Belgrade in terms of the number of peoples of the municipal police. “ Since the law provides that five thousand citizens are being visited by a municipal police officer, by the way, it will cost about nine million euros in Belgrade, and in the city where I come from, in Somboro, one service will cost about four hundred million dinars per year. Since my city's annual budget is 1,493,000,000, that means that a third of its budget will have to be allocated to the financing of the municipal police, which I absolutely find impossible, because that means that everything else in that case will die. I think some new, extra charges from citizens are inconclusive, indecisive, inconclusive. This law has a huge flaw, primarily in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23770	National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23771	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 18. Proposal for a law on municipal police. Given the short time of two minutes to explain the amendments, I will not read the content of Article 18(2). The bill's proposal, nor the amendment's text, I'm just going to say that the purpose of the amendment is to provide for the existence of a municipal inspection in the entire spectrum of local self-government, which means both in cities and in municipalities. The amendment was said to include the term "municipality" in the text of the bill, although it could have been considered, i.e. to provide for "local self-government bodies", which would include both the city of Belgrade and other cities, as well as municipalities. In response to the amendment, the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept the amendment I submitted and, in response, stated, among other things - given the state of affairs in the area of local self-government, at this point the large majority of municipalities do not have the capacities to assume this new jurisdiction. These reasons were taken into account. Does the government and the government lately take care of the even development of local self-government, both cities and municipalities? Let me give you an example. We know that, according to the Privatisation Act, five percent of the assets sold to the municipality; how, then, by selling Belgrade's fair to Belgrade, is 50% to Belgrade? We in the Serbian Radical Party are not against it, but why is this not the case with other local self-governments, with other municipalities, who need funds as well? Another example - by budget rebalance, you have reduced 15 billion funds by local self-government, for example for Alexinac 40,000,000 dinars. But, on the other hand, by means of an indirect route, you finance municipalities through the NIP, and then you select and classify who you give it to. Recently from the NIP according to certain projects you gave Jagodina 210,000,000 for three villages for the construction of the waterway. I have nothing against it as a citizen of Serbia, but I am against that you do not do so with other municipalities and local self-government, so that citizens can evenly regulate their living conditions. That's why we are in the Serbian Radical Party against this law, against this government, because it does not work fairly, evenly and because it separates citizens into first and second-class citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23772	The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Milet Poscurica, to article 19. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23773	Thank you. With this quasipolitan issue, we open several questions, certainly one pair of excellencies and a political issue that has been widely used in election campaigns, at least in 2000, when it was said that 70,000 police officers are difficult both in the sky and in the country and in the citizens of Serbia. We don't know how many regular cops we have today, and now we're adding some new ones. We are asking a political question – why some environments are excluded from the need for municipal police, if that is so, and one essential, structural issue – the issue of competence. Half-factory, semi-skilled persons to be found by name of an individual body, some chief, some city administration, some mayor, who will protect the interests of the municipal order, can be people of different profiles. If you give them the powers that are laid down by law and are quite different from that of point 19, whose removal we have suggested, in terms of the conditions for the identity check, we believe that we are coming to the real risk that only by order of the municipal inspector and by the personal assessment of the communal officer someone will be legalized, and later in the process of checking, if it's a high school boy who doesn't have a ID card, then on the basis of a health book or some student book is brought to the police, invite parents and make an entire gift-mar, if someone has done something with spray on the wall. No one justifies the mess, even with regard to sealing, oozing by signs, going through residential buildings, but another question opens – how are we going to prevent municipal waste from being deposited in villages, polluting large water plums, because those who want to escape the surveillance of inspectors, municipal police from fleeing to the neighbouring village, transporting the truck? What's the inspector gonna do? He goes after him and at the border of the end of a municipality he no longer has jurisdiction to inform the municipal inspector of that municipality, so that he can raise the police... So, there was a basis to verify the identity and in general the competencies that belong to the police slowly transfer to the police, that the inspector, in fact the municipal officer, determines what can be found in the work of jurisdiction without the use of force, without the use of the pendreka and without the right to bring in and determine the identity, because that is something that really needs to be strictly restricted to a state service that is the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23774	Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment has been submitted by the Serbian Radical Party as a follow-up to the amendment that the municipal police are not envisioned in part only for cities in the Republic of Serbia, but our intention was, if possible, to provide for all local self-government. We think this is a solution, except it's unacceptable, and it's partial. In this explanation, you listed everything that in Serbia, cities and municipalities represents and acts as a municipal mess, but this municipal mess cannot be resolved partially. If the need is imposed to remove it in the city, what is it disputed that the same is being removed in local self-governments, municipalities and how is the Government of the Republic of Serbia trying systematically in Serbia to solve it, so we will deal with the problems of communal nature in the territories of local self-government units? Perhaps the need to do so is imposed, first of all, in municipalities and then in cities. If you go back in time, all here are witnesses, come from environments that really face these problems, you know that the authorities and services that are at the level of local self-government dealing with these problems were at least the services that these truly deal with. Most of the time, those who did not have jobs, or local officials had obligations to the same ones, were engrossed, so they put them there not to work very hard, but to receive some safe and low wages. On the other hand, we are talking about a law that needs to raise the level of municipal order by restricting it to cities and at the same session we are talking about a balanced, allegedly balanced, regional development of the Republic of Serbia. You know, it's not just the story of regional development that money is being singled out for non-developed regions or regions. The Serbian Radical Party has repeatedly insisted here on raising the level of administrative procedures, services and communal consciousness and everything defined as a municipal service at the level of units of local self-government. This law doesn't affirm it. The communal chaos cannot be solved simply by the fact that you will give someone a bat and a handcuff and authority to legislate and determine problems. You have a problem with public enterprises and municipal administrations everywhere. A few days ago, I was talking about a problem, insisting on a minister, a colleague of yours, reacting. You have a municipal utility company in Surdulica, the municipality from which I come, which, by law, raised the prices of municipal services. The state's been pushing them through inspection bodies several times not to go wild with prices and to return prices to legal frameworks. They're deafening it. The state has no mechanism to counter such things. They're expressions of communal chaos and disorder and they can't be solved by the fact that you're going to unform someone, give him a bat and cuffs and certain powers. You do not recognise ways or the need to edit this systematically in Serbia, and because of that fact, the SRS cannot vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we set a break in today's work, I am informing the National Assembly, on the basis of Rules of Procedure, Rule 85, paragraph 5, that we will be working today and after 1800 hours, we will continue the debate on the point that at that moment is the subject of our discussion. I give you the notice that was sent to the Secretary General of the National Assembly Veljak Odalovic by the Secretary-General of the Serbian Radio-Television, Mr Stanislav Veljković, which says - I would like to inform you that on Tuesday, 23 June 2009 and Wednesday, 24 June 2009 of the 20.00 hours due to previous programme commitments, we will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Assembly in a direct transfer to the Second Programme of RTS. So, we're in direct transmission by 8:00, and then we're in a delayed transmission. I'm setting a break by 15.00 hours. At 3 p.m., we continue our work in the afternoon session with discussion in particular according to the amendment submitted by MP Milan Knezevic to article 20. Thank you. [[After break – 15:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session in the afternoon debate in detail of the draft law on the municipal police. We've stopped at Article 20. Ambassador Milan Knezevic submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23778	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of Parliament's Forward Serbia - SNS I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a law on municipal police. This amendment provides for the erasure of Article 20. Article 20 itself refers to the bringing of a person and reads: “If a municipal officer cannot determine the identity of a person by verifying Article 19 of this Act, that person will, without delay, bring it to the competent authority to determine the identity. “ You see, this Article 20, relating to Article 19, gives the municipal police the authority to carry out identity checks, facial arrests, and identity determinations. These are powers that only the members of the M.O.P. can have. My amendment is one of a dozen amendments to our parliamentary club relating to eradicating views or members of the law that give much greater authority to members of the municipal police, which give authority, as I said, to verify identity, detention, examination of persons and objects, confiscation of cases, as well as to use certain means of coercion. All these are powers that are significantly higher and do not belong, by the nature of the job, to the municipal police, which certainly is not, nor will they be equipped and trained for this activity. The explanation for the rejection of all our amendments was based on what my colleague Otto Kishmarton read, which I would not repeat, and giving such great powers to the municipal police is bad in practice. For these reasons, we believe that this law is bad and should be returned and revised in these segments relating to the powers and competence of the municipal police that is equated with the competences of the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23779	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulović, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new title and a new article 20a be added after article 20a. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23780	Dear Mrs. Comic, there is no Minister for Local Self-Government of Mr. Markovic, no Minister of Justice Mrs. Malovic. I must note that there are more applicants of this one amendment than MPs of the ruling coalition, of which only three are present, as if they do not have some municipalities and cities from which they come; these problems are obviously not of interest to them, whether the municipal police in their cities will live or not. With this amendment, we have tried to, after Article 20, which provides for the bringing to the competent authority of a person unable to identify... We suggested that a municipal police officer has the right to detain such a person when caught in a felony or committing a crime; so he can keep it and immediately inform the police who will continue to conduct these acts. We think it's the only thing that we can predict for members of the municipal police, because everything else, that they're doing a search, reviewing things, bringing things in, and everything else, I think that's what I think the representatives of the MUP should do, and up to their assistance, the communal police officer can do is keep that face. Otherwise, I think there will be enormous abuses, there can also be physical force and commitment. You can imagine what's going to happen in suburban settlements, in rural villages. As certain members of the municipal police will behave, it is truly unpredictable. You know, even in the army when he gets the rank of a corporal, he thinks he's a god himself, so a miracle works with his friends who he shared both good and evil with yesterday, and imagine when someone gets those powers, when he puts a rubber stick and a handcuff on his belt and when you give him the opportunity to bring someone in and search someone! I think there's going to be a lot of abuse, citizen abuse, but that's going to show up in practice. Fortunately, since you haven't provided funds for the municipal police, I don't think she'll be alive by the end of this year, and in the meantime there will be changes to this law to allow cities to provide funds and truly educated, professional, capable, and above all responsible people to put on these functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23781	Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulović, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic and MP Igor Bečić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Miroslav Petkovic, followed by the MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23782	Thank you, Your Honor, Madam Malovic, this amendment practically continues on the previous amendment that we have provided for Article 20a to be incorporated into this law. In Article 21. The draft law provides that a municipal police officer may conduct an examination of the person found in breach of the rules, that he may examine his vehicle, that he may examine the cases, that he may forcely open the cases and, in doing so, seek to cause as little damage as possible during that intervention. "If a municipal police officer finds objects that can be reasonably presumed to be the subject of a criminal offence or offence, he will immediately inform the police and follow the instructions received. “ Imagine what it will look like in practice: a municipal police officer should assume whether it is a crime, then inform the police, and then follow the instructions given. So he can't keep it, if he has a ID, he has to let it go after he takes his data. If he doesn't have a I.D., if he dumps the trash next to the trash can, he has to bring him in. I think we should support the Democratic Party of Serbia's proposal and delete this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23783	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 21 confirms what we of the SNS have been talking about all along. The law is made and conceived to create a new police body. If more carefully read Article 21. The draft law shows that even the members of the MUP do not have this kind of authority. A member of the MUP may examine the vehicle, search the face, etc. only on condition that it has committed a criminal offence or doubts that the subject is present in the person or in his means of transport, but that his suspicion is warranted. Now, here under article 21, it's enough for a citizen to throw a paper out of the vehicle and not have a municipal officer examine it, as it's written here, but to search the vehicle. The vehicle's examination is something else, the vehicle's examination is when he asks to be shown first aid, lamps, triangle, spare wheel, a tool he must have on him. It's a vehicle inspection. This is called a search. Under what conditions can regular police search? Only if an act has been done or only if a reasonable doubt is warranted and he must know the alleged perpetrator, know his past, whether he is criminal or not. A communal officer doesn't have that kind of information at his disposal. It is unfortunate that the creator of this law, Mr. Markovic, acted as the greatest coward and, under the pretext that he could not attend the session, put himself in a very awkward situation by Mrs. Markovic, who in this case has the authority to reject or accept an amendment, but must not, because he is afraid of what her colleague Markovic will say. If you knew about all this, Madam Chairman, this session today was not supposed to take place until Mr. Minister was available to answer for this nonsense he wrote in the municipal police law. Once again, it is best to withdraw the bill. You're building a new parapolitan organ. Don't, gentlemen of the ruling majority who will vote for this bill, hope that you will be in power forever. The government is variable, it's proven. Not later, when the power changes, so you resent some municipal cops and when they start to pay you back, and it's fat... I suggest you don't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23785	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment that reads: Article 21, paragraph 2, the word "fix" should be replaced by the word "registration". The proposal was rejected with an explanation that both terms are foreign, but that the word "fix" is more precise and common in police regulations and practices, as well as in crime. So if a communal officer is fixing your property or you, the criminal record is already open. More to be judged on the spot, and the police, those rights, and the courts won't be necessary anymore. It's nice that our government is concerned about tightening the security situation in cities around the world, as it is written in the reasons for the adoption of this law, but we need parking lots, garages, markets, places to sell cheap goods to poor citizens, not another police. The security situation in cities is not conditioned by irregular parking, street sales of fruits, vegetables and other small things. It would be interesting to see a communal officer in action against drug dealers or mail robbers, for example, in action against pickpockets or other kidnappers in the streets. That would be a real help to the citizens. So, the municipal inspection we already have, now we're getting communal police, it looks like, and the communal army, which, if not, another uniform on the streets is not a waste, more money from the service duplication budget is also not a waste. So, millions from the city budget are already fixed and certified, but they can't be registered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23787	The 22nd Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic and MP Jelena Budimirovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23788	Mrs. Komic, Mrs. Malovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the DSS Group tried to react to Article 22, that is, this part of the temporary confiscation of the case. In fact, the bill stipulates: “A communal officer will temporarily confiscate an object that has been obtained, used or created by breaking the rules of the municipal police section. “ We feel that this absolutely cannot be the jurisdiction of the municipal police. What does it mean that a communal officer is temporarily taking away an object? I can figure out when it comes to the spray that someone's pecking on the facades or some solid object, is it a stick that breaks some glass or something, but what if one of those guys is parking his car on the green surface? A communal officer is gonna take his vehicle away, write him some kind of confirmation that he's keeping his passenger vehicle? If he has no ID on him, he is obliged to leave that vehicle there and immediately implement it to the competent authority. I think that this member should be deleted and that it is necessary to clearly define the competences of the municipal police, to seek the assistance of the MUP and that the police are doing the job. The communal police really need to deal with something else, if we want it to be quiet in the streets of our cities, and to seduce order, first of all, in protecting the environment, but also in all other areas that these people really need to deal with. Don't take any responsibilities and powers from the Ministry of the Interior, give them to people who will have a year to practice it, and then pass a professional exam so they can do this job. I repeat once again, they have the right to use physical force, to use rubber sticks, to use foxes. It's absolutely unacceptable when it comes to the area of the municipal police. What the MUP needs to do, let it do, and these people need to do some other business. I suggest that the Minister accept this amendment and that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23789	The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23790	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, on behalf of the Progressive Group, Serbia-SNS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 22. I have proposed to the amendment to delete this member, because I believe that the powers for which the erasure is proposed may be reserved only by members of the Ministry of the Interior. The Serbian Progressive Party is also for the introduction of municipal order in all units of local self-government, but not in the proposed way. We believe that this bill is full of shortcomings, in terms of giving too much authority to members of the municipal police, and above all, the use of force. The Serbian Progressive Party believes that the adoption of this law will achieve nothing that would contribute to the improvement of Serbian citizens. We in local self-government units have municipal institutions whose job is to protect the environment, people and goods, so I find it unnecessary to allocate funds from the budget necessary for the implementation of this law, which will be difficult to isolate from both the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budget of local self-government units. It is more useful to allocate funds from the budget of local self-government to amortise machines in municipal institutions. The Serbian Progressive Party believes the law will not contribute to better protection of people and property in cities. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is exhausted by establishing parallel institutions, which is unacceptable at a time in which we live. For these reasons and the reasons that my fellow SNSs have stated will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23791	Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I proposed with my amendment that, following the 3rd position in Article 22, Article 4 which reads: "Communal police and the competent authority are obliged to keep the items temporarily taken away from damages. “ Why did I submit this amendment? The bill gave the municipal police the right to suspend the items which a person participated in in the violation of this law or in the case of a person who broke the law. So these items should be given to competent authorities for further treatment. The draft law does not provide for any obligation by the municipal police and other competent authorities to keep them from being damaged or to be kept from any further abuse. The government as a proposer has probably come from the assumption that this is understood, that the competent authorities and authorities of the municipal police will safely deal with these cases. However, this is a question that cannot be left on the conscience of a municipal police officer or on the conscience of a person from a competent state authority, but must be regulated by a clear legal provision. I will state a few more reasons why, in my opinion and the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party, this amendment should be adopted. Unwitting treatment with a temporarily taken object can lead to his damage. It's not just about causing material damage to the person who owns the case, it can lead to the destruction of evidence. The object to be taken away in the execution of a criminal or criminal offence is in itself evidence; the damage to that object can result in the destruction of evidence or the change of the evidence, the change of its essence. For these reasons, this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23793	National MP Ljiljana Miladanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23794	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS Parliamentary Group has found, on the basis of expert analysis, that this bill is unconstitutional, and then, if it goes beyond that, it can be seen that it leads to inequality and in practice it will be very expensive. Since we cannot otherwise show you that this law is unconstitutional, we have defined ourselves to submit a number of amendments and to try to convince you on the basis of the fact that this law should not be passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, I have submitted an amendment to Article 27. The draft law on the control of the use of means of coercion, which states in article 27's first position that a municipal police officer is obliged to draw up a written report in case of use of funds and to hand him over to the chief of municipal police within 24 hours of the use of funds. In view of the fact that it is on Article 1. The bill was proposed by MP Dusan Maric, who suggests that if the municipal police had already to be introduced, it would also be introduced into municipalities, not only in cities, and the chief of the municipal police would bring certain measures, related to the implementation of the disciplinary responsibility of the municipal police officer who used the means of coercion, and would be required to inform the city's assembly within a certain time. Here is another question – what is the goal of passing such a law? I express a legitimate concern, or doubt, that these may be the first official bodies of the countries of the region. We're starting with Belgrade and other cities. True, in your law on equal regional development, there are not so many regions as we now have municipalities in the status of the city in Serbia, but you will likely try, through Belgrade and other cities that have the status of the city, to introduce the municipal police as the first official bodies of those regions. Here, the number of employees is unwarrantedly increasing, and we need to ask ourselves who will be reading our raspberries, who will reap grain, who will dig in the country of Serbia if we employ everything in the state administration? In order to remove any irregularities of this law, I suggest that this amendment be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23795	The 29th member of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Goran Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23796	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members from 27 to 30. The proposal for a law on the municipal police concerns the control of the municipal police, more specifically the control of the use of the means of coercion, the obligation of the Chief of Police to submit a written report to the competent police administration in certain situations, as well as the control of the resolution of complaints by the special complaint resolution commission, which appears here as a specific external body to carry out an independent additional investigation. My amendment refers specifically to Article 29(1), which reads: “Anyone may appeal to the communal police if he considers that they are unlawful or incorrect in applying the authority of a communal police officer. 17th to 24th of this law is a violation of the law. “ Remembrances, members of 17 - 24 define powers owned by municipal police officers in doing their jobs. In a way, my amendment is a logical continuation of the amendment submitted by Honorable counterpart Dusan Maric to article 6, which the government has accepted. The position of the 2nd member provides that citizens may submit applications to the municipal police in writing, by e-mail, and in urgent cases and by oral address. This means that in this case, the government has accepted the possibility of orally addressing citizens. That is why I suggested adding a new position 2, which would be added in Article 29 after Article 1, which reads: “If the complaint is filed orally, the municipal police are obliged to make a written official note immediately on the same matter. “ Unlike my colleague Maric’s amendment, my amendment was rejected, although nothing but a different version of his amendment was expressed. So on this occasion, I would like to appeal once again to the legislator to reconsider the amendment and accept it, because, as we know, there is an oral story, and there is something quite different in writing. In that case, I hope that he will be reconsidered and accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23797	The 29th member of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to delete Article 29, paragraph 5. That attitude 5 says: “The city’s congregation educates the Board of Appeals. The commission, consisting of a president and four members, must be appointed by the three council members of the city's assembly, i.e. the municipality, "Communal Police Chief and Police Representative". We suggest that this position in this article be deleted. You're saying this law doesn't require funds. That's not true. This law is also unacceptable for today, for today's conditions and for the use of budgets at local and all levels. This law introduces the Democratic Party's reserve forces because you have elections to hire a number of people to legalize all these activities - from bags, packages, etc., so that these people do it in your favor. This law is unconstitutional. Police jobs can't be transferred in any way. This law brings us back to the time of Austro-Hungarian. I can name some, for example, losers, rangers, fishkeepers, night watchmen, bodyguards, seres, fielders, communal cops. It is likely that this law should reach the level that these municipal police officers at the level of local communities are also performing the field jobs that people used to do, at the time of Austro-Hungarian -- they kept fields from people who stole from grain, corn and other fields. The control of the municipal police, the use of the means of coercion - how do you mean to do so when you are unable to bring the greatest criminals to justice today, and you will bring ordinary citizens to justice? Look at the wonders! You're dealing with human rights in this law, and your human lives are lost in NATO aggression, you're not even moving your finger. You're ironic to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23799	National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a letter from the Prophet of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23800	Article 30 of the proposal for this law is absolutely contrary to Article 136(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that the tasks of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other state administration bodies laid down by law. We have been drawing attention to this for years, from law to law, but unfortunately, no minister, or only Sasha Dragin, responded to one amendment and here accepted the amendment that we intervened in this way. Of course, this time I haven't even read the government's argument because I know that it explains that these solutions are provided for by the State Administration Act. We again draw attention to the unconstitutional nature of the State Administration Act, as we have been paying attention today to the unconstitutional nature of this law on the municipal police, but you of the Government simply do not respond to such interventions. To ignore this unconstitution, see Article 30: “The way and the procedure of the control of the municipal police is closely prescribed by the minister responsible for local self-government. “ First of all, if I were this minister, I wouldn’t think of taking on my shoulders this much responsibility and this wide range of jurisdiction from all this law. Before this, we have Article 28.2 which states: “If the use of the means of coercion results in physical injury or death, the chief of the municipal police reports to the competent police authority. “ The law itself provides for the possibility of death in that conflict between your armed municipal police and citizens. In most cases, those who will be persecuted by police like this and those who are being persecuted today by municipal inspection are people who may be selling in unauthorized places, in cardboard boxes, etc., but in the situation in which the state of Serbia is today, unfortunately, there will be more and more people who have to sell on a cardboard box to survive, in order to at least earn something. You make such people conflict with your police, and the minister, who controls the work of the municipal police, assumes this responsibility on himself. Even worse than that, what is provided for in Article 32(3). What are we supposed to do? That the minister responsible for local self-government adopts a regulation on how to determine the necessary psychophysical capacity referred to in point (1) of Article 1(1) of this Article and the solution empowers the medical institution to determine this ability and issue medical assurances about it. I really don't know if this sounds normal to anyone. The Minister of State and Local Self-Government, this one now, is a graduate lawyer. All before were (I am confident, and future will be) graduates, regardless of what the ministerial function is political...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23801	People's MPs, the time available to the MP's group has been used. Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Skrbic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Škrbić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all day long we've been listening to objections to this law on municipal police relating to what we have to recognize, which is a lack of money in municipalities, in fact, cities for now, and there will be a community simply threatening bankruptcy by the end of the year because of the lack of funds, and the law simply states that we have to equip that police even with vehicles, other equipment, and not to tell the vessels, because this law includes the establishment of order on rivers, lakes, in the coast, etc. The human factor is in every business, and so is here. If the parties refuse to execute them, they are meant to be citizens, when the inspection comes, then they are provided by authorities of coercion, which is police or even financial police, if necessary. Those who have so far prevented the conduct of the work of municipal directors, who now exist, will continue to do so, only now for other reasons. They're party people or party powers, as someone said, subsidizing powerful agonisms and escapes. That's true. The municipalities, I say, were in front of bankruptcy, and this is where the law imposes no new costs. We found that we have 23 cities, plus Belgrade; that's 1,200 people who will be taken care of, but not in production interests, but in directorial professions. So, it's another cost for Serbian citizens, which was transferred to municipalities...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23803	Two minutes. Thank you. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic and Jovan Palalic submitted the 32nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23804	I thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is indeed indicative, as our colleague Mr. Petkovic said, that the debate in the details of this law does not involve the one who is competent and who is the legislator of this law, I mean Mr. Markovic. I think it's probably because he is aware that this law is not good and that as such it can produce inconceivable consequences in many environments; that is, not in many areas, but in 23 cities, plus in the city of Belgrade, where about six million people live. Because of the inextricable and incompetent approach to the whole problem, and the work of these communal police officers, they can produce inconceivable consequences. We've all seen a lot of movies showing the behavior of some local cops or, let's just say, city sheriffs. I believe that each of you in the memory of the movie, one of the Rambo series, where we have a local city sheriff who produces such a fact that whoever feels hit and injured, by the standards of that city sheriff, had a completely different approach to justice than what's really right... That could happen with us because we're given great authority to this, to call them city sheriffs. There are a lot of loose ends in Law and Article 32, which can produce certain consequences for the citizens of these cities. I think that the amendment by the Democratic Party of Serbia's MPs has far exceeded that, after the words "psychophysical abilities needed to carry out the affairs of the municipal police, which are proved by the doctor's confidence of the approved health institution", it should read: "which is issued after a medical examination once a year". I believe it is necessary to verify the capabilities of these local municipal police officers at least once a year, given the powers they have and what is in the description of their jobs. At the same time, we are going back to what I've talked about several times, I think we should completely delete this provision point 3 - that he is not sentenced to a prison sentence of at least six months. Regardless of the explanation given by the minister, which applies to the police, I think the reception of these people is quite different from the admission of people to the police. Then, we'll talk later about the amendment, the way in which the expert exams are passed indicates that these people are not allowed to perform this duty at all, regardless of what time they have endured. I think that all of this can produce some negative consequences for the citizens, especially what there is a protection mechanism that is fully in favour of those who name those persons. The city administration is the one who appoints those persons, and the city administration is the one that, if someone feels hurt by the procedure of a municipal police officer, decides later on. We'll talk more about it through the following amendments, and we'll look back at Article 29, where we'll, in a plastic example, show what all the consequences can come out of such a bad law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23805	The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a message from Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23806	New Serbia's parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 32. This is the member of the law that deals primarily with the conditions for the conduct of the affairs of municipal police officers, so we had an objection and an attempt to make that member a different concept and order, so that our amendment reads: Article 32 paragraph 1 point 3) after the word “jail” the point and the words “for at least six months” are deleted, and point 5 is added after point 4) which reads as “not criminally convicted”. This would mean, in the very text of the law, at paragraph 3, as regards the conditions required for the conduct of a municipal police officer's affairs, that he is not sentenced to prison sentence. We think that's enough. So, someone who's not even convicted of a prison sentence can claim to work as a communal officer. Or, with this addition, point 5, which reads, is that it is not criminally convicted. I think we've seen from this law, and through all these 76 amendments that explain themselves, it's quite clear that this is a law that will in practice bring important problems to the citizens. In addition to significantly burdening the small budget of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. all cities, city administrations, municipal police will have a number of problems with professional competences, with overlapping powers with police. It may happen that they are competent for both, i.e. for some very sensitive problem they are not competent for each other, and then remain, certainly, on the wind and under significant damage to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, one who will receive a salary for at least a year before it is even confirmed that he can do the job, and will be equipped with a uniform and all that is necessary, from the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, would certainly have to be a person of such moral credibility that he never, under any conditions, had any conflict with the law. Otherwise, especially in smaller cities, people are well-known, those 10, 20 municipal police officers will certainly be very famous in that town and will have no authority in front of the citizens if they have any stain behind them, any possible prison for up to six months. Here, in the light of an amendment, it is said that European standards promote it. First of all, European standards promote a lot of things that we haven't achieved so far and we don't have a chance to reach them, so we don't have to go into all the standards that bring us direct damage to try to reach them. Secondly, as far as European standards are concerned, we know what their internal controls are like in all kinds of police and what police officers must be in European countries, so it is absolutely not envisaged that these individuals are at any time controversial and under any doubt. We believe that this amendment was absolutely to be adopted because it would apply this stricter criterion, with otherwise very problematic conditions under which municipal police officers will be employed, because this is how we see them as party or political police. We think this amendment could have been adopted, because really at least one possible professional quality would have entered into the choice of those personalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23807	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23808	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have, in the course of a principle debate today, pointed to a series of irregularities and problems concerning this law. The law, which is required, defined as an obligation in the Law on Local Self-Government, will not have the desired effect, i.e. Because a series of provisions he has will not be applicable. One of these provisions is absolutely certain and a provision in Article 32. It is truly amazing that, in addition to all the problems we've had in the position of the municipal police, between the municipal inspection and the police, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government are now mixed. Take a look at what part – it interferes when it comes to psychophysical abilities needed to perform the affairs of the municipal police, in such a way that the minister adopts regulations on how to determine the necessary psychophysical abilities. With all due respect to any minister, especially the Minister for Local Self-Government, this is just amazing! Here, let anyone in this room or from the citizens who are watching the transfer of the idea that the minister has the qualifications to pass one of these regulations. This will create huge problems because only the ministry has never dealt with these kinds of affairs. On the other hand, the Home Office has a huge experience just when it comes to these jobs. Why has this division of affairs now occurred – that the Ministry of Local Self-Government, which should deal with other problems that local self-government is burdened with, today we have talked about what these problems are, determines the psychophysical abilities of municipal police officers or prescribes a way of determining them? It's simply inexplicable and unacceptable. And only the argument is given to give a reason – the minister responsible for local self-government can lay down rules on how to determine the necessary psychophysical abilities of municipal police officers. It's not said how, on the basis of which competence, based on what experience. That's unacceptable. We're facing a series of problems in this law. Article 9, concerning the affairs of the municipal police, it's so general, so vague, it'll create problems, it'll lead directly to the conflict of jurisdiction. It is said that the affairs of the municipal police are in control of the application of this law. How's a municipal cop gonna control the law? Or support law enforcement. How does a communal officer provide...? We know what his business is. It is said – to support the implementation of the rules. There's a lot of confusion, there's a lot of indiscretion. The law will not be feasible in practice, unfortunately. It takes the law. A lot of local self-government is looking for it. The law defines that these are cities now. Perhaps in the next step we should go, by changing the law and the municipalities, but with this concept of law, we will create even greater problems in local self-government, concerning the jurisdiction of individual authorities and the jurisdiction of the police themselves. There is only one conclusion from today's discussion – that the Government should withdraw this law, prepare it, analyse it more thoroughly, analyse the amendments and then, with one quality text, with the amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government, in order to extend it to local self-government, go to the MPs, and that (what we will talk about in the final provisions) is a much longer deadline for the application of the law. There's a big problem with local self-government, and they still need it so fast now, as defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23809	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23810	The New Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 33 to replace the words "three months" in Article 2 of the words "one year" with the words "three months". The amendment refers to the length of training of a person who is admitted to work for the affairs of a municipal police officer. We believe that for a year it is an inadmissible long term and that three months of training under such undefined circumstances is quite enough for someone to qualify for this type of work, unless everything else in the law is prepared and defined in a way that is adequately done on the ground. First of all, we felt that it was entirely different to imagine the concept of the education of municipal police officers, but this law did not foresee it. After all, why wouldn't the existing schools for regular cops form a department that would train young people for that particular profession and that profession? And last time, when we discussed in principle, when the minister was there, I asked the very rational question – what would happen if the municipal police officer, the person who was admitted to work as a communal police officer, did not pass the exam, was not able to do those jobs, and had previously done these jobs and been paid, or had already been provided by budget funds and received wages? I don't know who's responsible in that case. There's a lot of difficult things about the education of that frame. We think that first of all, the law needed to prepare the education of this staff, predict it by an education system, introduce these people, and then create jobs for them in the way they predict it, as European standards here have been said several times. Then we would really have a real European standard in this area and then these people would be prepared differently, react differently, there would be no problems that would likely occur in the field of conflict between citizens and municipal police officers. Because they're people who go into conflict situations. Not to mention those basic accidents and everything else, which predicts many of the services we've had so far active (fire departments, rescue services). They are mostly foreseen, given that the use of force is mentioned, for conflict situations, and that is serious action. It is a parapolitan force, which in the field will create additional problems and difficulties for citizens and legislators, if there is a situation for certain things to end in front of the judicial authorities, and it will be, believe me, that too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23811	National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on municipal police, to his 36th member, with the idea of changing the first position in this article. In fact, the legislator in this article, as well as in the whole concept of the law, has confused things when it comes to cities and municipalities, or rather, when it comes to the mayor, or the president of the municipality. In the light of which this amendment is rejected, the writer of this law is called for a constitutional solution to which cities may have some other competences than the competences of the municipalities. That's not controversial. Large cities have their specificities, especially the metropolis, compared to smaller places, but the Constitution here does not talk about these specificities. That's some other stuff. Namely, protecting the environment, protecting the people, protecting the goods, maintaining order in the use of land and local roads and other things that this law speaks of in its first member are certainly not the specificities that the Constitution wants to highlight, but these are the things that concern absolutely every populated place: and some village on the Old Mountain, and the town of Belgrade itself; they don't even have to be inhabited places, they can be leds, trimms and forests. These are the same locations that are being submerged and treated by the municipal police, i.e. the municipal inspection. That is why I urge the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister to reconsider this amendment and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23813	Thank you. National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on municipal police. I thought it was going to be some of the more serious laws, but you realized that this law should still be found in front of this high house, so the SRS Group of MPs took this very seriously, and that's why it submitted the most amendments. Namely, I will read Section 2 in Article 39: "The markings on the uniform consist of the name of the municipal police and the city", and then the point stands and I have inserted "the municipalities" into it. I don't see why you're making the difference between the need for municipal police in the city and the municipality. Then, the text continues: "... Last name", it means a person, "identification number and the status code of a municipal police officer and from the coat of arms of the city", and again goes a comma, and I am putting "or municipalities set up on the appropriate basis. “ Gentlemen, communal and other issues, whose resolution under this bill is in the jurisdiction of the municipal police, exist equally in all local self - administrations, regardless of whether they have city or municipality status. The size of these issues and problems depends not exclusively on the size of local self-government and the number of its inhabitants, or on the size of the city area itself, but also on a number of other circumstances and factors. In Serbia, there are specific small local self-government and urban environments that have a greater need for municipal police than certain cities. Accordingly, setting up municipal police only in cities, that is, denying the right of municipalities to have their own municipal police represent their discrimination and special discrimination against citizens living in them, which is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23815	Time. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23816	Article 39 defines the appearance of a uniform and the marking of municipal police officers and the manner of wearing a uniform prescribed by the City Assembly under the previously obtained consent of the minister responsible for local self-government. From this attitude, each city will have its own color and the kind of marking of this uniform, which is in some way a similar solution that defines vehicles, vessels and equipment in article 41, where the colour and method of marking the vehicle and the vessel, as well as the equipment of the municipal police, will be prescribed by the city's assembly. So each city, 23 cities, will, in their previous opinion, have some coloring of uniforms and boats, or vehicles. Does this mean that if you do not accept the amendment of the SNS, or the Parliamentary Club, Serbia, that the municipal police should have a uniform, the same uniform on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, that all those who paint cars, those who do this job, the workshops will have a color catalogue and a combination of colors that the municipal police have so accidentally paint their cars and fall under the criminal provisions of this law – if, for example, from Novi Sad, they live there and love the orange fight, and come to Bor, which so painted the vehicles of their municipal police and then fall under the criminal provisions of this law because, if I were to say, they were falsely representing themselves? Guys, is that normal? Is that a solution that a law can prescribe? Is the marking of a uniform in a particular color known to all citizens a kind of seriousness to that kind of official uniform, or will it serve us for some other purpose, where it really ceases to be serious wearing an official uniform and that it has certain prescribed characteristics? I personally believe, and other citizens today face this practice, that even certain members of the MUP do not wear badges by which we can identify them. I really believe there's a large number of those who can confirm what I'm saying. We'll meet them here in the center, around the republican congregation. We have no doubt of their good intentions. We don't have a problem with them, but those for whom it is prescribed and who, in the framework of the power of the Police Act, wish to contribute to public order and peace and to protect and ensure our safety do not wear the badges prescribed by the law... And you here, by law, are proposing to us various uniforms, various identification numbers that this young brother of the police, as the minister said, should indicate, that we believe this solution is good... It is not good as it is written, let alone better written, it may not be applied. You have indeed led to the theory of absurdity this solution with labels, colors and criminal provisions for the abuse of uniforms or equipment used by these police. The basic provision of this law, which must be kept by the police at police level and within the framework of its powers, and if we need to train them, to employ a number of police officers, to provide public inspectors with authority and conditions for work, and not to add legal powers from the Law on Police, where the mode of work and powers are in the Police Act, and the procedure and application are controlled by the Minister of Local Self-Government... We have an inadmissible overlap of jurisdiction, which will have no benefit for the citizens of Serbia. In mixing and intertwining jurisdiction, we went to these extremes that we'd have some colourful uniforms, where police powers get communal inspectors, which I won't be sure I know who they are. Or maybe you'll print us an atlas with looks and colors that will be in schools, in suitable shows, where you'll present them to us, you'll probably print us some brochures? Don't forget the paint and lime shops where they'll stand with the colors and how painted cars and vessels of this municipal police are. My amendment is very serious. The powers the government has given can't really be characterized by that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23817	Thank you. National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Bojan Mladenovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS thinks we should not introduce the municipal police, but an inspection, and if the municipal police are already being introduced, it should also be at the level of the municipalities. Accordingly, I have submitted an amendment to Article 39(3), which reads: “The appearance of the uniform and the marking on the uniform of municipal police officers and the way in which the uniform is worn is prescribed by the City Assembly, according to the previously obtained consent of the minister responsible for local self-government. “ I ask that after the word “city ” and the score be written in the words“ municipalities, ” or “municipality. ” I don't think it's necessary to deny the right of municipalities to have their own municipal police, because a large number of municipalities need to introduce the same. Both at the city level and in the smaller local self-government, there are identical problems, such as illegal parking, waste disposal in unauthorized places, usurping green areas, making too much noise and the like. We believe that municipalities, as well as cities, need to control the use of public areas, wastewater disposal, the setting up of temporary business facilities, as well as the transport of citizens in bus and taxi transport. Also, municipal police in municipalities would control the maintenance of markets, cemeterys, public fountains and fountains, cultural and historical monuments, riverbeds and river banks, local roads and streets, as well as their lighting, traffic markings and signalling, park maintenance, municipal, residential and other facilities. The communal police in smaller local self-government would also take care of the transport and disposal of municipal and other waste, the removal of snow, ice and the like. The Serbian Radical Party believes it is not necessary to deny the right of municipalities to have their own municipal police, which would work in the interest of citizens, and therefore I propose that the amendment be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23819	National MP Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Milenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Milenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to amend Article 40 of Section 2 and reads: “The official ID issued by the mayor, or the president of the municipality, when a municipal police officer acquires the right to carry out his own affairs. In the event of termination of employment in the municipal police, a municipal police officer is required to hand over official ID to the mayor, or to the president of the municipality. “ This amendment came as a logical trail of previously submitted amendments to SRS MPs, and with the intention of regulating matter in a more precise, more meaningful way and thus allowing the existence of municipal police not only in cities but in municipalities. In this way, we would avoid denying the right of municipalities to have their own municipal police and at the same time avoid discrimination against citizens living in these municipalities, because they must have the same rights in this area, rather than remain deprived of those rights, as you foresee your unconstitutional bill. In the reasons for not accepting the amendments, the Government shall refer to the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendment to Article 1. When we take a closer look, the vast majority of amendments by the SRS have been rejected, which apparently speaks of the government's intention not to accept this law in the parliamentary dialogue between the opposition and the authorities, and in order to find the best solutions for our citizens. There is another more dangerous thing than this, which raises the fundamental question whether we as a state and citizens need the adoption of the law on the municipal police, the establishment of a anti-corruption agency to establish order in the state, institutions and society, or whether it is just the real desire and need of the government to solve the accumulated problems of citizens, who... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... There's obviously no such thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23821	Members of the 41st amendment were submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic, who wants a word. Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems that Mr. Markovic has really exaggerated in this law, as we go from member to member. Article 41 should regulate the colour and method of marking vehicles and vessels, as well as the equipment of the municipal police. Under the bill, this should be prescribed by the city's assembly, and according to the SNS proposal, it should be prescribed by the minister, with the previous opinion of the interior minister. The amendment was denied. I don't want to go into the details of the very explanation, which doesn't seem to make much sense, but it seems that when this law comes into force, Serbia will create a real color for cities when it comes to communal police uniforms. I'm interested, but Markovic can't answer me because he's not here, will the uniform be working and solemn? The communal police, why not, and regular police do so. Will the mayor, whenever he comes to work, or perhaps Minister Markovic, wait for the honorary leader of the municipal police? Let me ask you another question – how will it look if even the uniform is determined by the city's congregation? Could the uniform appointed by the Belgrade City Assembly look like a simple civil suit? Are there any obstacles? There isn't. Will that be banned in Belgrade? It will. Will it be banned in the Fireman? He won't. I'm going to have to buy that atlas mentioned by Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic and take care of every time I go somewhere so I don't accidentally put on a suit like the municipal police in that town where I'm going. Or, God forbid, a vehicle paints or has the same color as a utility vehicle in the city I'm going to. There is another problem – this atlas will have to be complemented every time power changes. Rest assured, some parties won't allow the municipal police to drive blue-yellow vehicles. As soon as they come to power, they'll repaint them, make sure of it. I ask the question – what would it look like, in Pogorevec local self-government likes red-yellow color, with mild, shy blue, and here in Belgrade blue-yellow? So whoever drives a vehicle from the Fireman can drive blue and yellow, but he can't drive it to Belgrade, he'll pay the fine. So I'm telling you, this is the law and this is the kind of stupidity Mr. Markovic has done, so pull it back as soon as possible. Or, if you can't, the president of the party better not sign this bill, return it to the Assembly and finally refuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23823	The 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. You have your word, Mr. Lightning.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23824	In Article 41(3), the words ‘Minister of the Competent’ shall be replaced by the words ‘Minister of the Competent’. The amendment is both principled and essential. Principlely, the SRS advocates, not only when it comes to the bill, but also the others, for certain powers to be tied to the ministry, not to the resolute minister. The fundamental objection to this article, as well as to the bill in general, relates to the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. So the constitutional basis simply doesn't exist. The basis for passing this law does not exist. In an explanation given by the legislator, it is acknowledged that there are some serious problems in society, in many segments of social life. However, these problems should be solved regularly, not by the municipal police. So, I can't have community cops having powers that have regular cops and other police officials. The authority of the police, which represents the original jurisdiction, cannot be passed on to anything, nor to this bill, to the municipal police. But for some reason, you need parallel police and no counterarguments on the other hand you don't accept. You simply want to continue with this law, as well as with other bill proposals, the continued practice that you have for many years, which is that you leave no alternative to your insinuators; or, if you leave, to leave two alternatives – which is either to accept your opinion or to give up yours. The Serbian Radical Party will never accept such a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23825	Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I am particularly speaking to you at this very moment, since the Minister of Local Self-Government is not here, and you will understand why. I have submitted an amendment to Article 47. The amendment provided for by this amendment implies that the words "minister in charge" are replaced by the words "minister in charge". Why did I start this? Because I have an impression, and you'll see a proposal and an explanation, that the Minister of Local Self-Government is dealing with everything and everything, and not with what's essentially his job. You'll also see proof of that. The minister, on a proposal from this member, should appoint an examination committee to check who's capable of being a cop and who's not. The minister is not dealing with, say, the Palilu municipality's problem where six times a month ago, six times the municipality, the local self-government, for which the local self-government minister has been responsible, has been applied for the return of the SRS mandate for 15 council members. The explanation of the municipality and the competent district court has always been to await the decision of a low-level court, the fourth court in question. Six sessions were held, six times the minister was acting crazy compared to our demands. The community's acting crazy compared to our demands. We came ten days ago to know that the decisions of the fourth municipal court in December of the month, in January of the month, in March of the month, were for at least seven cases that treated these topics. What's the Department of Local Self-Government doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23827	Time, Mr. MP. Thank you. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 48th amendment. Mr. Radulovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23828	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this particular article 48 shows the essence of how superficially this law has been accessed. These provisions states: “Employees of the municipal police are required to take an examination to carry out their duties and apply the authority of a municipal police officer no later than one year from the date of the adoption of the rules laid down in Article 35(2) of this Act. “ It is possible for a municipal police officer to perform trainees before taking the exam, so to speak. This is a unique case that the entire service (practically, all municipal police officers) is made up of trainees, because it runs for a year and takes the exam. It's inappropriate and I don't believe anything like that exists in any country in the world. It is precisely in my discussion that the discussions of all the Members of the People who were cordially criticising this law today and asked to withdraw from the procedure. Why am I saying that this is completely unsettled and that this provision is very bad and that we are trying to fix it with our amendment where we say, "The candidates for work in the municipal police are required to pass the exam for performing the jobs and applying the authority of the municipal police officer"? Untrained persons, whose knowledge has not been verified before the entry into service, will not be able to adequately carry out tasks that need to prevent damage to the citizens, and the city itself, especially if we have a Article 50 where the provisions of this law are said to apply at the end of six months from the date of entry into force of this law. There's a reasonable time for this law to be fully matched and it has the essence, not for us to have interns. We'll have an intern as chief of communal police. These legal solutions indicate that all municipal police officers are interns until they pass the exam. It's a unique case for the Chief to be an intern. To sum up, since we've talked a lot about it, what scares all of us is that they can perform the duty of a communal police officer who's been sentenced to a sentence of no longer than six months. So those who are prone to violent behavior. Second, who picks these municipal cops? They're chosen by the authorities of the city administration. Those in power in the city, they choose 1,200 trainees. Third, if they harm a citizen with their own actions, and the citizen has not committed any offence, who solves the problem? They're saving the authorities of the city administration. He solves the commissioner, the authorities of the city's administration and the city's council. Who makes the city bigger? It's made by the ruling majority. Give me an example in Serbia where the city council does not make up members of the ruling majority in the city. This shows how dangerous this law is, in essence, how dangerous it can give someone the opportunity to cause serious physical harm to someone by force. In doing so, the ministry will mostly accommodate people who belong to the ruling majority in that city, or sympathisers. The special arches will have towards those who are from the ruling majority or sympathisers, and special arches to those who are from opposition parties or supporters of opposition parties. I deeply hope that the minister is sitting somewhere in the dark at these moments, closing himself up and thinking about withdrawing this law, not allowing, as someone said, that the law should be passed on to the president of his party to sign it and put it into office. This law is very harmful and dangerous to the citizens, understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23829	Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jankovic, Zlata Djeric and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to the 48th amendment. Mrs. Zlata Djeric wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 48, which we ask for Article 1 to be added to Section 2 which reads: "At least one graduate environmental engineer, a graduate lawyer and one professor from the police academy must be in place." It refers to the composition of a committee before which a municipal police officer will take the exam, and this member of the law reads: "Employees of the municipal police are required to take an exam to carry out the tasks and apply the authority of a municipal police officer no later than one year from the date of the adoption of the regulations laid down in Article 35 of Article 2 of this Article. “ In the refusal of this amendment, the applicant for the bill points me to Article 35, which states, among other things, this: “The programme, time and manner of professional training and professional training, the content and method of passing exams and checks on professional training, the content and manner of keeping records of training and training, the examinations passed and the assurances issued on the exams and established training is prescribed by the minister responsible for local self-government, with the previously obtained opinion of the Home Affairs Minister. “ So we have two ministries. It's the communal police, we know what communal activity is, and we don't think there's any intended competent person in that commission for the area of municipal activity at all. It's not the main problem of this law. The main problem and the reason for the inapplicability of this law on the ground lies that the whole law provides for the employment of a trainee, a municipal officer, who, after some time, since no amendments have been adopted, are to be introduced within a year at the latest and officially into the work of a municipal police officer. As far as I know, according to our law, you can hire an intern when you provide him with a mentor for this job, a person who is already qualified in this business, who will lead him to this expert exam. This law does not provide for that, in any article, so that this law directly violates other laws. Any court case concerning the inability to obtain such a job will be obtained, multiple damages from this law and major confusion on the ground, i.e. in the lives of citizens and cities in Serbia. Given that it is a very expensive machine, for example, a city from which I come, Sombor, by the standards provided for the municipal police, would have to allocate a third of the budget at the annual level for the operation of this service. My city right now has to shut down all the institutions of culture, shut down half the essential services in the community itself to make this work. On the very ground in cities, it cannot live in the way this law provides. I'm telling you, the biggest problem is, you can't hire interns in the service you didn't provide mentors for. That's what I've talked about before. They were supposed to educate professional municipal police officers first, so that there's a possibility... Another system to predict them long before, so that then there is the possibility of introducing them into that service. There is not enough political desire and political will for any political party to save its heroes on the ground. We can even respect that, but it is not good for the citizens of Serbia and it cannot be created this way by a party machine, because this directly destroys another law, which will be confirmed as correct in court.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23831	Thank you. The 49th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I filed an amendment to Article 49 in front of the SRS Parliament Club. A bill on the municipal police, which the government did not accept. Because of the public who is following this, and there is great interest in Leskovac, because in the opinion of the Minister for Local Self-Government, who was visiting, we have too many employees, and this law adds to the budget of the city... I'll read Article 49. The bill: "The city council, on a proposal from the chief of the municipal police, will bring the first strategic plan of the municipal police no later than two years after the date of entry into force of this law. “ The amendment I have made is proposed to amend this article by saying at the outset: “City, or municipalally larger, ” and the rest of the text remains the same. This amendment is, as can be seen, a logical trail of most of the amendments submitted by the MPs from the SRS with the intention to include the bill and municipalities, as units of local self-government, so that they can educate the municipal police, provide and organise the activities of municipal police in their territory. If we put aside problems related to the financing of the municipal police, the fact is that they will be due to another burden on the budget of local self-government units. If we try to look at the validity of the reasons for the education of municipal police, because, as you stated in the reasoning of this bill, the functioning of cities and cities of Belgrade has seen significant difficulties in maintaining the municipal order and ensuring the effective enforcement of laws and other regulations, general acts in the areas of municipal activity and the jurisdiction of the city, as well as in some other important affairs...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23833	Thank you. There's no more time. Mr. Velimir Ilic. Is this amendment, or do you want to report in the end as a representative, that is, the president of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23834	I wanted to be amended by Zlata Djeric and as head of the parliamentary group. You know how, I'm really embarrassed that by who knows which way, Madam Chairman, we're talking, trying to fix something with amendments, to get some law to look like the right law that's going to make it better. However, you from the ruling coalition have no hearing of it. You throw it all away, you don't care at all. It makes me very uncomfortable when I look into an empty room, where the opposition comes, sits, wrinkles for some laws, to put something into order as much, at least with amendments. But what's going on? The people of the ruling coalition are uninterested. They're interested in voting day. They come, they vote, and then Serbia has a big problem. We're going to have a very big problem after this law. We calculated, only the city of Belgrade should invest in the municipal police 8.8m euros without talking about other cities in Serbia. These people need to be equipped, they need to have administration, rooms, they need to be heated, they need to spend fuel, various materials, etc. But where does that come from? How are we going to do in other cities across Serbia where the municipal police are being introduced? Serbia has no place to go anymore. The budget doesn't fill. You see, there's little funds in the budget, there's no dinars available. Where do you think you can replace this money? Where will the local authorities... You can see that the transfer funds are being reduced, there's no money, there's no money, it's only a matter of what day, and in which the municipality won't have teachers in kindergartens or those basic services that operate. How can all this be worth it and what additional means? See, the fuel's going to go up, the oil's going to come back up again. From New Year's Eve to today, oil has accumulated 35 dinars. How can she make up for it? Let's just say that the milk cost 100% from New Year's Eve to today, and the oil went up to 35 dinars. So, how? Maybe that's funny for Mrs. Comic. Maybe it's funny for you, Mrs. Comic, you might have some additional sources of income. You will have when you are in charge of the IMF three billion euros without the consent of this parliament and when you spend it on how you think of it, as a ruling coalition. Who's gonna pay it back tomorrow? Remember, four billion euros in credit was taken this year, and nothing capital in the state was done, no more important job... You've been talking, there's gonna be a lot of jobs opening up. It's not gonna happen. You see, you're just hiring people in the administration. At one session, we passed laws under which 5,000 new administrative workers would be employed. You're making some statistical regions to cross a man. The European Union told you. Well, well, the European Union should say -- everyone in line then to the Danube, we'll all go now, and we'll jump there. The European Union proposes laws, but for what they have money for. No one here explained whether these new laws provided funds, such as funds. provided for the laws, those 15 laws in agriculture that were voted here in principle by MPs in a united debate? Who will provide great means for these laws to be implemented? There's no money, no business, some cities are dead, no exist, no economy doesn't exist. The giants who were once a miracle in the great Yugoslavia, in Europe, cannot be launched. Is it possible now to find some new sources of revenue and replace these funds? We can't just borrow credit and spend random money because we're passing some laws. How will it apply? What about the police tomorrow if the municipality doesn't have the means to pay them? They'll come to strike you in front of the government, just like this police strike. And this police force has its own union and is starting to strike. So this looks like party police to me. How are you going to create one party police now? Take the town of Kragujevac, the Democratic Party says there are millions of irregularities there; people who have made irregularities will now get their own police. They'll get some local losers, so to speak, interns, which will be, no mentors, no controls, no powers, which will be able to use sticks, handcuffs, to bring in, to call the police, etc. Who will keep them under control and in what way? How did you arrange to control it? We can't hold individual judges now... I've recently asked a question for a judge from Novi Sad. I didn't get the answer. I'd like to ask the minister, not to repeat now the shame made by the newly-sad judge, to see me one day, to explain it to her. If you can't take certain measures, then we as citizens will have to seek some measures to protect ourselves from arrogant judges. I guarantee that this judge doesn't have the basics of maturity that he can be a judge, and already, to be tested, to be tested, so that judge is not normal. I guarantee you that, and I'll show you the documents where you'll see that the judge is an abnormal personality. Imagine when you now let him sit in court, judge and judge someone, etc. As tomorrow you'll give someone, a communal, to come to some town, a trainee, a boy, and do what he wants. He can't do it without... Here, you heard Mrs. Djeric who explained that something like this could not happen under the law. Therefore, my lords of the ruling coalition, think carefully about how all this administration and this country that is getting more and more expensive every day... You see, we haven't even stepped into that European Union yet, and we're over-indebted. It's just credit lines, debts, unpaid bills. We're coming into a position of increased administration, new cars, secretaries, new administrations. Where are we going to take it and how? So, it's nice to say -- the city of Belgrade will get some police, communal, but how do we pay it? It may not be 8.8m euros a year for the city of Belgrade, but for some other city, of course, that can't survive, which is struggling so hard... Will Niss be able to have community police? Will the Kragujevac be able to finance the municipal police? Will Novi Sad and the other cities be able to do it? I doubt it. So we need to take a little care of how to cheap the state, because there's no one left to take. Some ministers are misbehaving. This morning I listen to the statement by Minister Dinkic, who has a million problems – for example, in Lapovo, the railways blocked, the damages huge, the railways pay for the pens every day because of the trains standing; the decks of every wagon that can't pass we pay daily. Instead of talking about solving these problems, he explains to us this morning that the VAT won't pick up. He also said that pensions won't shrink. He won't let you cut pensions. Please, is there a minister who deals with pensions, is there a finance minister who deals with VAT? Now, how come the economy minister, where there are a billion unresolved problems, where the burning problems he has to solve today, simply takes a flyer, for example, that he's not going to reduce or that he's not going to retire? How is it possible for oil to collect this much fuel? How is it possible that excises grow this much? Now we're the most expensive in the environment. We are the most expensive and we are losing traffic, people are going through Romania, via Bulgaria, through other transit states, because in Serbia, gasoline and oil are the most expensive in the environment. We also have the most expensive gas in this part of Europe. If the gas on the market is cheap from $450 to 230, how is it possible that we don't change the price? Who's picking up that difference and where's she going? How is it spent and how is it spent? Therefore, please, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, make sure that you make sure that you're a little cheap for the state, that you reduce the administration like you said, not that you're opening new jobs in the administration and that you're collecting the state. Of course, energy affects and you will see for yourself how many products in the chain will start to collect. Therefore, this is unsustainable. Take it somewhere - it can't, because it doesn't undress. Our peasant is a naked man, he can't take it anymore. There's nothing I can do. Look, milk - 17 dinars; you see meat, someone imported, the other day we listened to the minister, chicken from Brazil, meat from Argentina. We are now throwing ourselves away, we are adding to the European Union, we are financing the "Fiat", we are subsidising from our budget and for vehicles in Republika Srpska. Now in Macedonia too, we are rich, why not let the Macedonians buy, give them subsidies, etc.? We're a rich people, but we have one arrogant, distasteful government that spends it all hitting our citizens' pockets. We were expecting cheaps, we were expecting a reduced and cheaper administration. We're getting the most expensive administration in the environment. We lose state institutions, we get party institutions. As the institution is created, it will be a party institution. Any party that is in power wants to have its party administrators, who, of course, will collect the state, and those insubordination from other parties will slowly be fired as a technological surplus and replaced by a party obedient. Not to mention the party state, how far you've gone, gentlemen. I was recently in the sheep-cable monasteries. One lady, who I was in the government pushing for not to come to work, to run these historical monuments of culture, etc., that she had passed all the parties that existed and there were problems everywhere, she ordered... I come to the monastery and ask, "Well, what is this?" She says - ordered the lady to paint the thread in yellow. Imagine now, in the woods, as a canary, a yellow monastery. I've never seen a yellow thread, a yellow monastery, but a woman has turned into a Democratic Party to show loyalty. Now everything is painted yellow. You can see yellow houses by the road, yellow defenders, yellow bridges, all yellow in Serbia. Why? It's like we're suffering from some kind of jaundice, not God-given. But now we want the party police. If he's gonna have yellow uniforms and yellow cars, that's what we need to see. It's all gonna hit this people's pockets. That's not good. We're asking all kinds of questions here. They say the Assembly works, we come on Tuesdays... However, I don't even come to those questions because there's no point; whatever I asked, I didn't get any answers on Thursdays special. It only answers attractive questions that are affirmative for certain ministries, but no answers are given to those unfortunate questions. So there's no point either, it's a waste of time. It's an apparent democracy, to show that, for God's sake, MPs can ask whatever they want. MPs can ask a question and they don't have to get an answer. It's not me because of the MPs, it's not me because of my question, but the institution of parliament has been defiled, it has lost its meaning. The way you're going, and I see that you've also scheduled a board of directors to remove the flat, so the MPs are going to be social cases. Soon there will be social cases and bicycles coming from within to parliament's sessions. No wonder there will be a dozen MPs in the hall, perhaps not so much; in the days of voting they will come from the ruling coalition. So we completely broke the institution of parliament. Here, the campaign is about to change the Constitution, and everything that's wrong will change. Nothing's wrong. Until a few months ago, nothing was right until you came to power, but you forget that you were in power. I didn't want to go into that government in 2000 because I didn't like it. I thought it wasn't good, and I was absolutely right. Now I see it's going back to that old story. The press asked me -- ministers, how did Cumeta plan where does the bypass around Belgrade go? Don't you know maybe, I'm repeating now, that the Chumes bought the Duke's Roads Institute? He bought the Institute in privatisation, in somebody's name. He bought the PZP Valjevo, bought lots of roads, and now he's the big guy. He's got all the projects. He's got the supervisory authorities. He'll be your dad now, and you'll just pay. So I don't need journalists asking me where it came from. I warned some people who took part in privatizing what was going on. However, no one has done anything. How can a man who's been making thousands of troubles buy the Institute of Roads? Now all the projects are there. There are all the supervisory authorities, all the designers, and it's all under the strict control of those people who shouldn't be with those institutions that deal with it. Therefore, I would like to see how the new municipal police will behave in Novi Pazar when you have two camps from the government, when you fight, those street fights of theirs, which side will the municipal police stand by when you put them on, uniformize them, etc. There's gonna be a lot of problems, I guarantee you that. You're not even aware of the problems that's gonna happen. So let's not waste any time. Let's put something on the agenda sometimes that's very important, which is the question of the economy, what we live on. That's what we've never discussed here, how to get out of this crisis. We're making a summit in Novi Sad. Stipe Mesic came and gave you a lecture in the middle of Novi Sad on the democratic state of Croatia. His democratic state has banished all Serbs without anything. No one can ask him a question – when will you pay for these apartments, houses, what have you gathered for this people? He teaches you a lesson here – please return to Croatia, which you do not come to. Of course, they would come, but everyone ends up in jail as soon as they cross the border. So let's talk about real problems, not gather, gather, waste time, hold all kinds of summits, affirm ourselves, prove, show, show how much we've adopted European laws, and we're getting worse. Serbia is choking, people cannot survive, literally, much of Serbia is starving. We're talking about a "white Schengen" visa. Who's gonna use it? What's he gonna travel with? Whose child will only be able to use the plane to travel, to visit Europe, to see major tourist centres, etc.? Few whose child will be able to do as it goes, gentlemen. We've completely lost the middle class. How many thousands of people are waiting for a power outage these days when they get back from their vacations? Massive use of licking, credit lines now. Everything that's been taken, it's all destroyed. Therefore, this will add up, make the situation worse in Serbia. Gentlemen of the government, please find a serious minister of business. Don't wait and waste your time. It's gonna be late. Believe me, that's what I'm convinced, it'll be too late when you remember to do it. I don't think there's gonna be time to do something, because it's gonna be ruined, ruined, and it's gonna take generations to get it to the right place. Therefore, withdraw this law because this is part of those laws that will bring Serbia new costs and new problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23835	You are the complete time foreseen for you as president of the parliamentary group and your parliamentary group have spent. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, today we've been trying to convince you that this law is bad. In doing so, you had plenty of time, or the legislator had plenty of time to propose one quite good law, because since 2007, when we passed the Law on Cities, until today, and now it's mid-2009, it's been a year and a half. This member refers to a deadline for the adoption of a strategic plan, which is very important, which defines how this municipal police will operate: "The city council, on a proposal from the chief of the municipal police, will bring the first strategic plan of the municipal police no later than two years after the date of entry into force of this law. “ The application of the law, according to Article 50, is delayed by six months. This Article 49 provides that the deadline for the adoption of the strategic plan is two years. That's, then, to get a strategic plan, two and a half years. With our amendment, we asked that this deadline be reduced, especially because we have this delayed period of application of this law for six months; it means that six more months after the possibility that the city council could adopt this strategic plan, with the agreement of the assembly. However, the fact is that everything we've been saying has no effect and there's no point, because the bill promoter essentially plotted to get the party police. That's the worst part, because the party police will pay citizens of Serbia, meaning, from the local self-government budget, which is being filled with funds and burdens on Serbian citizens, who are growing from day to day. We see that the wages will be reduced as well. It is proposed, as one of the possible measures, or a 10% reduction in salary or an increase in VAT in order to amortise the impact and lack of funds and a large difference between the revenue and expenditure side, as so your employer asks you to, or the IMF. Madam Minister, this is an appeal for you. You are the minister of justice, you have heard from most MPs a great deal of objections to this law and its inapplicability. We are counting on you to convince the legislator, the Minister for Local Self-Government of Mr Milan Markovic to withdraw this law, not to debate and vote on this law in the voting day, because this is an unnecessary cost for citizens of Serbia and for someone to create a party police, who can do what they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23837	Member of the 49th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Aleksandra Ilic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23838	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the National Police Act, on behalf of the NS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 49, which is behind the words "of", instead of the words "two years", the words "six months" stand. In Article 11. The proposal for a law on municipal police states that, on the proposal of the chief of the municipal police, it brings a strategic plan of the municipal police, which, based on an assessment of the current situation, sets priorities in the performance of the public police affairs and gives it developmental, human and other grounds for further work. In line with the strategic plan, the municipal police form annual work plans and deliver them to the city council for adoption. So, the basis for the start of the operation of the municipal police is to adopt a strategic plan and make up the annual work plan according to this strategic plan. It is unclear how Article 49 can provide for such a long deadline for the adoption of the first strategic plan – no later than two years after the date of entry into force of this law. Article 50 provides for the law to enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", starting to apply after six months from the date of entry into force. It is obvious that the deadline for the first strategic work plan should not be longer than six months from the date of entry into force, when it begins and applies. If that deadline remains for the adoption of the strategic plan set out in the draft law, according to which the annual work plan must be adopted, the question arises how can it begin with the work of the municipal police if the law is applied at the end of six months from the date of entry into force? So, it would start with the work of the municipal police and start to apply the law without a strategic plan and an annual work plan. How would these municipal police work and what problems would you solve?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23839	Thank you. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 50th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23840	President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister Malovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, although it is unusual for the amendment to intervene in a member who determines, to say the so-called caucus of the legion, we felt that all our objections to this law were confirmed in what defines the deadline for applying this law and the start of the application of this law. This short term, of six months, for the application of such a complex, undefined law with vague institutes, with other problems, which I'm going to talk about, cannot be realized. Local self-government will not be able to apply this law, on the one hand, because of obligations imposed by the law and, on the other hand, because of the general situation in cities and municipalities. So, taking into account the problems of the examination committee, professional training and sublegal acts and, as it is said, establishing psychophysical skills and perhaps the need for the minister to hire additional people at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and hopefully with the funds, the money to make this law real, the deadline of six months is extremely short. That means by the end of the year. Once again, I would like to remind you that this government has reduced the transfer funds to local self-government. She introduced new accusations through a series of laws; the last one was the Regional Development Act, now the municipal police law. Now we expect that such a burden on local self-governments, which have already given up their development, will no longer have the idea that they are doing something about the development of their environments... They do, as the people would say, on the lear, possibly still pay their wages somewhere else. With such local self-governments, we impose a huge obligation to implement the entire procedure within six months, select municipal police officers and then enter the process of paying those people's profits. It's just not possible. This law will be inadmissible. It's going to collapse at the beginning, and that's what we've been saying all along. You have to define your policy, if you have any policy towards local self-government. You can't take it without giving them new influences. You've been doing this for a year. You take their money, you deny them the opportunity to develop, you don't pass the property law, and you introduce them more and more. That's impossible. I expect that a number of new laws will come out in the future from these ministries dealing with local self-government that will provide for new obligations for local self-government. I urge that at this point the Government, if it does not want to withdraw this law, adopt at least this amendment, which is real. Eighteen months is enough time, if more serious policy starts, to deal with the situation in local self-government about finance, and then we can talk about the application of this law. We're gonna be ridiculous, we're gonna be insecure, because one law that's important, which is necessary, we can't apply. What have we given to the great cities that have and have shown the need for this law? It's just that you've put too much into local self-government and you haven't given them anything. In this context, I suggest that you first abolish the decision to reduce the transfer funds, put a moratorium on the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, make a decision, re-emerge your own local self-government laws, transfer some of your income from the Republic to local self-government, execute the right decentralisation, and then talk about applying the law on municipal police. Without it, everything will soon turn out to be a complete failure. The worst part is, we're gonna take down the local government. It doesn't matter which party is in power, all local self-government will fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23841	Mr. Milan Avramovic answered the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23842	It's not according to this amendment. Madam Chairman, may I also warn you that this assembly is this way of debate reduced to the lowest branches and that it is no wonder that journalists are doing what they are doing. I will remind you of the Mandatory Insurance Act – Government representative was Minister Dragutinovic, who has no driver's license, does not participate in traffic, except that he has a government driver, etc. We now have a similar situation – the law on municipal police in front of the government is the minister of justice. We don't have a competent person to discuss these bill proposals, to discuss amendments, and we don't have any participation by the government. The MPs here make suggestions and criticisms, and they don't get any answers. There are two reasons why there is no answer – or a competent minister who is there does not know the answer or answer we cannot get because we are right. Mrs. Comic, please refrain. At least be polite until you're in charge. Ms. Malovic, from the point of view of the legal profession, since you did not answer the question of fellow Members of Vukovic whether there is some case law that the senior legal act is awaiting a lower decision in order to make a solution or, in this case, that the District Court is awaiting the decision of the Fourth Municipal Court... This has not yet existed anywhere, in any legal state, if this is a legal state at all – that there is a court solution and when it comes from a lower legal act that a senior legal act does not make a decision, even by that, and thus buys time and political points and makes some decisions unlawfully. Is there at least a rule of law, if there is no communal state, as you state in the draft of this law? Speaking of the law itself, let me remind you of a few things. None of you wanted to consider the problems of citizens and municipalities and cities at the same time, when it comes to municipal areas, in relation to the cause. Of those reasons, I've mentioned more than one thing. Here's the concept of doing business, referring to public cleanliness, local roads and streets... We said that local roads and streets, especially in suburban settlements, are priorities in pre-election campaigns; or that there are priorities in the city centre, where a large number of voters are concentrated. That's where the political points come in, so you have a street that's changed twice, it's paved six times, until some streets see no gravel, let alone asphalt. We have a parking obligation. The communal police will introduce a parking order. On what grounds will the municipal police introduce a parking order? Get into the garage and draw a new parking space? To build a new garage? To come up with a new parking price? To figure out how much an extra card costs when you run out of time? What will the municipal police do when it comes to parking? To secure a parking space or to name even numbers tables, to drive on steam days, and with odd numbers to drive on odd days, so everyone can park everywhere? This mentions the setting up of temporary business facilities. I must also say that from the very center of the city (Vračar municipality, Sava Venac and Old Town) all temporary assembly facilities have been removed and new buildings have been installed, owned directly by municipalities. The right to compete is exclusively for persons or firms who already had an object there, which in this case is "Futura Plus" and "Print", and no one else. If you find three other trades in the territory of these three municipalities, which have ties besides these companies, I'll congratulate you. The fourth thing applies to the car taxi. In Belgrade, we have x taxi associations, we don't even know which taxi drives us anymore, whether it's legal, whether it's illegal, whether it's registered, unregistered, different names we have. Every cab has its own price list, no taxi gives a fiscal bill, no taxi knows how many miles it's gone and every cab has benefits you don't know about. Protecting from noise in the environment. We mentioned in the discussion how noise protection works near the hospital and maternity hospital, so we set an example of the St. Sava Hospital at the Railway Station – from the stroke people are treated, and from the palace in Nemanja if it beats, 300 per hour. Clubs and cafes in that palace have so much sound that it can be heard even to the Mostar loop, let alone the sick in the hospital. The walk in Belgrade has become absolutely risky. A few days ago, two hundred kilos of glass with “Belgrades ” fell. When we ask who is responsible, they say – why do citizens go there? How can the pre-election campaign of the municipal and inspection services do the right thing? At Voždovec, all inspection service standards are now respected in the pre-election campaign – there is no garbage, lighting everywhere, green areas decorated, streets paved, sidewalks made, after 30 years the Aval road was made again. How can she do that all of a sudden? What makes you say inspection services are incompetent? By special regulations, the city took the powers of municipal inspection services, so they can't take the goods, they can't take the goods, they can only make a record, in case they come before the city inspection, and pass it on to the second-degree authority. That's why there's the impotence of municipalities and it wasn't done by accident. When on the border between the two municipalities you have a street dealer you have the following case: when the inspector comes from one municipality he crosses the street, and when the inspector comes from another municipality he goes back to the old place, that neither inspector takes his goods, because that's how he feeds his family and himself. Let's not talk about air conditioning, housing that shakes crumbs off the terrace, throws garbage, syringes and all that is generally known, especially in parts of Belgrade where buildings are mostly, such as Novi Belgrade. When we mentioned the city council, which has the obligation to bring up a strategic municipal police plan, we could not conclude that there would be abuses. I have set an example, and in today’s day there are some abuses by the mayor, by the City Hall. You gave authority to the city council to choose the color of the uniform, as if it were very important. If the inspector has the authority to confiscate the goods, what's the greater respect on whether they're gonna take the goods the unbalanced one or not? Why the expansion of the administration and the accumulation of party comrades in this system of municipal police? You say he has to finish high school and pass his exam. Until he passes the exam, six months, Malten, he has to volunteer. What if he doesn't pass the exam? That's what we talked about. We never got an answer. It is said in Article 17 that the warning is given orally, written or through means of public information. What means of public information will the communal inspector give someone a warning, the firm? In "Blica", in "Glass", in "The Official Messenger", "Jež", in which means? What's that company got to do with it? Who's gonna pay for that information? Who's he gonna pay? No one took care of that. What I must underline is that this thesis that a municipal police officer "goes" to 5,000 citizens. It's physically inconclusive. If we have a rule of law that one cop of the same sex can search a citizen of the same sex, then it's inconclusive. So a male cop is searching a man, a woman. If we consider that it's at the beginning of two to five thousand and they have two shifts and there's volunteers, there's someone to control, it's at least six people to 5,000 citizens anywhere, in any city. We were putting a parallel between the municipality and the city, not counting on some municipalities to get the status of the city half a year ago, a year ago. They therefore received revenues in the budget that could not be made available to them earlier. It's a total lie. Absolutely the same incomes have those with the status of the city, as they had with the status of the municipality in the previous period, other than privileged ones, where the ruling majority is in power, which can use the NIP etc. The form and method of achieving co-operation between the municipal police and city inspection services is closer to the city's assembly. We're getting to the point of abuse. For example, the city administration or the city have made the wrong decision of any kind, whether because of the pre-election campaign, whether because of corruption, whether because of friendly party ties etc. about destruction, migration, etc. What's the city administration gonna do now? He takes along a municipal or construction inspector, takes a communal officer, gets police assistance, which allows for Article 18, and what does that mean? That the city or city administration can't make a mistake, they have no right to make a mistake, there's an army of people behind them. By the time the trial comes, by the time it's over, even court costs will be charged, by the use of police assistance or a communal officer to arrive at the address. The communal mess concerning the building depends solely on the one who works the building. Who today has a monopoly on buildings in central cities? What are the tycoons that build square meters for 200 - 250 euros and sell for 2,500 - 3,000 euros? Who makes it possible for them and who gives them permission? Who lets them get to the location that way? That's what needs to be treated and corrected for the municipal police to be unnecessary. You haven't fixed it, so you're forming a communal police force. The city of Belgrade has seven public utility companies: a public water and sewerage company, funeral services, Belgrade power plants, city markets, city cleanliness, for the greenery of Belgrade, the JKP "Infostane" etc. What about these companies, what are their responsibilities when the municipal police show up? What are they going to do about utility companies and employees in utility companies when their volume and quality of work is bad anyway, based on funding, based on the employee's salary, based on technical opportunities? The technical possibilities are nothing for these companies in the capital. What are the technical opportunities in smaller cities or cities that have now become cities? Not to read other public enterprises that have some city services. Citizens, in order to protect themselves from everything, are unwittingly forming associations. Now you have the Association of Protection against Roma settlements under the Mostar loop, you have the Association for the Protection of the Fifth Park, you have the Association of Savamals to protect against the asphalt base, you have various associations. What will the municipal police do with these associations? Arrest them? To bring them in? To legitize them, to search them? What's the municipal police gonna do? I guess he needs to help them. I guess it's an interest not to have an asphalt base downtown. I guess it's an interest for the Roma to settle where they belong, in normal conditions, not in containers, next to the city, next to a dump, because there's a University, Beavisia or I don't know what on the agenda in the capital. In Obrenovac, people are on the street for three days because they don't want such unpleasantness in their neighborhood. The municipal police and the municipal service have no authority to do so, because they were taken from them by the municipal inspection of the city of Belgrade. That's where the most trouble comes from. Taking into account the number of people who will work and how construction works, legalisation, a compromised process such as disrespect and lack of urban and planning documents, non-compliance with municipal regulations and all that contributes to poor regulation of municipal infrastructure, it is no wonder that in some time periods such as pre-election campaign, we can have good municipal inspectors, and in some cases not. Article 19 says: “Communal police officers will verify the identity of a person whose behaviour and performance is a violation of the rules of the municipal police section. “ A person with a primary and high school cannot perform whether the regulation in the area of municipal police and the use of force... Now I ask the question – is the municipal offense a criminal offense? How will a municipal police officer determine what is a criminal and what is a misdemeanor on the ground? Is he a judge or a communal officer? On what grounds are he going to legislate, search and arrest? There's a series of irregularities. If we take the senselessness of the Assembly itself, in which a representative of the Government has nothing to do with the subject on the agenda, I get an answer that is generally known. He says there's a traffic jam in Belgrade. We'll put order in traffic. How? I ask the question – how? Is it because of the light rail subway you've been building since 2000? Is this about the new bridges?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23843	Thank you. Time's up. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, and the Proposer's representative does not want a word, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before we move to the eighth item of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, let me inform you that on 24 June 2009, in the small hall of the House of the National Assembly, the opening ceremony will be held on 16 June 2009. General Assembly of the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy, starting at 19.00 p.m. After the ceremony, a cocktail will be held in the hall of the House of National Assembly at 8.30 p.m. I invite you all to take part in the opening ceremony of this event, cocktail and thank you for taking part. We move to the 8th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on ELECTRONS DOCUMENT (single) You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: together by Miroslav Petković, Milan Lapčević and Milica Radović, Milan Avramović, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Dejan Mirović, Marina Toman, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Sladjan Mijaljević, Dragan Stevanović, Aleksandar Martinović, Zoran Krasić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dušanka Plecevic and Boris Aleksic. You also received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Lidija Dimitrijevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade. First Lydia Dimitrijevic. You want to do business? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23844	I want to draw your attention to the article. 87th and 195th. Since the door is opening, apparently the minister is coming, we could wait that second so we don't intervene; here come the government's representatives. That was my intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23845	Thank you for the intervention. I had information that the minister was just...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23846	We're not. It's just a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23847	I wouldn't have started if it wasn't for the minister, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23848	That little thing is a problem, we didn't have that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23849	Business is not meant to inform you of everything I know if it doesn't interfere with the process of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23850	Now you've remethyled.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23851	Don't have a dialogue with me, please, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23852	Nice to meet you,
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23853	Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following this meeting of the National Assembly, I would like to point out that the SRS Parliament Club with great attention and seriousness has submitted amendments to the proposal for an electronic document law, and on the basis of consultations with professional people in this area. We have thus shown our sincere intention to adopt this bill in a form that will be in the interest of Serbian citizens. In front of the SRS Parliament Club, I submitted an amendment to Article 6(1), which reads: "The electronic document contains an internal and external form of presentation. “ The amendment suggests that Article 6 paragraph 1 reads: “The electronic document contains both internal and external and tone form of presentation. “ The government has decided to reject the proposed amendment with an explanation: “The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the external form of the electronic document includes the tone form. “ I must point out that the objective of submitting this amendment is to define the form more clearly, to highlight the tone form as part of the external form of the display of the electronic document. Also, the SRS believes that this more precise definition protects the interests of producers of music and other sound records. In Article 6, paragraph 3, it is said: “The parallel form of the display consists of a visual or other understandable display of the content of an electronic document on the screen of a computer or other electronic device. “ We don’t feel that things that could be taken into account in themselves are necessarily defined in law. On the other hand, this amendment would not make Article 6 worse, on the contrary, only make it more concrete. I'm going to be short on something I find very important in this bill. In light of the reasons for the adoption of the law, it is written: "The fundamental objective of legal regulation is to encourage the wider use of electronic documents by citizens, legal entities and authorities in our country. Using and exchanging electronic documents between these entities would contribute to raising the overall efficiency of work, significant material savings and improving the quality of life of citizens. “ This involves, among other things, delivering documents by electronic means, without coming to the counter of the organs. Similar stories have been told countless times. It sounds great, but it's still a problem that because of the law's inconsistencies, it's not possible to implement the idea. It often happens in practice that the counters on which the reception of acts is carried out are kept one record through automatic data processing, through computers, and the other by writing manually, through an internal delivery book and other books. This represents an additional complexity of the action-receiving procedures and doubles the work of the receiving party, and the party who has come to hand over some act doubles the waiting time. The adoption of this electronic document law implies amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act and rules on office operations. It would be good to implement all these laws and regulations as soon as possible. Otherwise, there will be trouble again, wasting time in front of the counter, shouting and anger at the counter workers who don't know where their heads are from doubling their jobs, and they have to be kind and smiling because the party that's come to talk to them is always right. Avoid it and comply with regulations and laws, and then we will see if you will achieve what you have set for yourself as one of the goals of adopting this law, which is to improve the quality of life of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23855	Mr. Milan Lapcevic reported after this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23856	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in our principle debate on this law, we have brought forth a series of objections to the law on the electronic document, which are in principle not essential in nature. There are some gaps in this law that we have also pointed to in the adoption of the e-commerce law, and the biggest objections to the fact that this law will not be possible on the very day of adoption, but will be formally delayed by six months, by the fact that the last article requires that sublegal acts defining the procedure for the application of this law will be adopted within that time limit. It's something that we've potentiated as a bad solution, because all sublaws could have been prepared and passed in a very short time, so that this law could be applied immediately. In that sense, we have also submitted an amendment that the time for the adoption of sublaws from six months to three months is reduced. We have also potentiated the problem of unwanted mail, which is not sufficiently worked out by this bill, nor is it designed to eliminate unwanted mail. We also stressed that more attention was needed to protect, i.e. the security of the flow of electronic information, such as that done in Germany, where there is a state channel that passes all documents and guarantees the safety of all documents, so that those who do not have the right to do so cannot come to them. This law will also not be applicable because of the non-compliance of other legal acts which specify the use of various documents, in particular the Office Business Act and the law on the archiving of documents, which is mentioned in this article, that electronic documents can be archived in the manner in which they are archived, but in the Office Business Act there are no terms of "electronic documents" and how they are kept, as well as deadlines, and in that sense, the application of this law will wait for that time when the office business law is amended. In essence, this law will, above all, complete the necessary legislation for the application of the electronic administration strategy with other laws, in particular the laws on electronic trade and electronic signature. Unfortunately, as is the case in many other areas, in this area, we will not quickly move from simple supremacy norms to concrete application, precisely because of the lack of accompanying sublegal acts and other support that should be present to fully apply these laws, in order to live in practice. There is also a case related to electronic signature – although the law was passed more than five years ago, its application began only about a year ago, and we have very few people who took certificates for electronic signature. It's practically more symbolic than it really is in practice. I will use this time to warn you and ask you to take advantage of your authority and point to an increasingly unbearable situation that is happening in various cities of Serbia, I will only mention one that is related to the town of Nis, which concerns months of strikes and which are practically gaining increasing publicity, i.e. becoming more radical forms. For six months, workers of the Nitex have been strikein' for their rights. More than four months ago, they filed a request to the Privatisation Agency for the control of this privatisation and to change the solution to privatising this once-great giant. They didn't get any answers until today. In addition to not receiving an answer, although on strike for several months, none of their respective ministers, or the people of the economy ministry, or the privatisation agency, have officially spoken to them or visited them. The question arises whether those strikers in Novi Pazar, Kragujevac, had a priority, as they can be visited by the minister in charge of labour and social affairs, and the people who strike in Nis, unfortunately, cannot have the right to do so. The same is true of the "Builder", which has been on strike for the same reasons for two months. Its workers have even taken more drastic measures – for a dozen days strike hunger; there are also very difficult cases of people who are asthmatics, sick, so it is a real warning to both the government and the competent ministers to listen to these people, to hear what problems they have, to deal with these problems, not to stick their head in the sand and to transfer responsibility to the authorities of local self-government, which should be some buffer zone between dissatisfied workers and the government that needs to solve their problems. I ask you, in that sense, to appeal to the competent ministers to deal with this problem, because these strikes started yesterday, the strikers went out on the streets and are determined to strike in those strikes, while indeed someone who has the authority doesn't pay attention to them, endures to the end. I'm afraid we're going to have an increasingly difficult situation on the ground, and I'm asking you to warn this fact and that someone is taking some concrete steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23857	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Mr. Stevanović, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23858	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think the amendments to the SRS were constructive and celery. In this regard, we have submitted to Article 7 this amendment which we have provided that the electronic document, contrary to the proposed law, has a copy in electronic form. We believe, as we have explained, that they can primarily be in back-up systems, which allow their storage and protection. I think we've been doing absolutely what you've stated in the law's reasoning, which is that, given that information technologies and ways of business are changing very quickly, the estimated need for legal solutions to be flexible and open to new technological achievements. Since these new technological achievements allow electronic documents to have a copy, to be in some way, I suppose I'll express myself well, authorised, protected, I think in some, I say, extraordinary circumstances would allow these same documents to be protected. I think you could have been, as you said here, flexible and accept this amendment. On the other hand, that authorisation, or protection, also provides for the e-signature Act, which you previously adopted. Of course, you didn't accept the amendment. I would take the opportunity to resort to the discussion of the previous MP. It's a question of applying this law, of whether it will be and how it will happen. First of all, you're predicting that within six months you bring in sublaws. Not to mention defeating statistics when it comes to the use of modern information technologies in Serbia at all, from state authorities to companies or entities to be used by this law. That is why we believe that this, as well as other amendments to the SRS relating to this law, could have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23859	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Mr. Vladan Jeremic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything more about my colleague Boris Aleksic's amendment, I will use the time we have at our disposal, which belongs to the parliamentary group, to express my disappointment with the fact that of these fifteen amendments, how much we have submitted to the proposal for an electronic document, which is made up of expert consultations, literally none of the only ones have come to an understanding, or has not been accepted by the legislator. What we were handling when we proposed amendments, i.e. trying to correct such a bill, is the fact that the Republic of Serbia, as it stands in the reasons for the adoption of the law, in 2004 the adoption of the Law on Electronic Signature actually began the process of developing this legal framework that is necessary for the development of the entire electronic business in our country. The electronic signature, and in particular the qualified electronic signature, as a means of reliably identifying the parties in the electronic transaction, is one of the most significant segments of the electronic document, in particular when the regulation lays down that written form as a condition of fullness of the legal act, legal transaction or other legal action. The real problem is the fact that this law, although passed five years ago, is practically still not in the right sense of that word in application. In the explanation of the legislators of this e-document law, it was said that the adoption of this law took a step further in this legal regulation of electronic business, which is precisely by regulating those issues that are relevant for the practice, i.e. the functioning of electronic business in reality. As you have admitted here in your own explanation, this will also allow for a more consistent application of the Law on Electronic Signature. However, following a debate in principle, and given your view on the amendment of the SRS Parliamentary Group, it is evident that several things must be found, and that is that when any law is passed, especially the one that absolutely stands for it, it is necessary to define the environment in which the law is passed. It also needs to be defined and connected to other laws with which it is in a natural relationship. It is clear from this proposal for a law on an electronic document presented to the Members that it is necessary to adopt a series of sublaws relating to the clarification of certain parts of that law. As we pointed out, one of our fundamental objections to such a bill refers to the fact that there is an impression that the law on the electronic document is actually written for the needs of the electronic government, and that the needs relating to the use of electronic documents, I am above all referring to economic operators, are not defined in that same law. We, ladies and gentlemen, are witnesses that today, in the age of mass informing all social processes, in our country has not yet implemented the formation of the spine of that information, which is what colleagues have been talking about, the implementation of the electronic signature. It is too high to say how difficult such a situation is for the normal functioning of the entire system and for the functioning of the state service not to talk. What we meet regularly today, and especially in the state administration, are the constant complaints of civil servants that their hands are tied, that many processes and procedures are infinitely complicated precisely because in the Republic of Serbia there is no law on electronic signature or, rather, because there is not yet that national strategy on the field of electronic business. Namely, after the adoption of the already mentioned Law on Electronic Signature, which, just to remind the public, was brought in in December 2004, except for the adoption of a few sublegal acts practically nothing more has happened on the issue. The formation of the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society in the Republic of Serbia was in some way meant to bring about a political and legal entity that could launch the process from a dead end with its authority. However, the implementation of the electronic signature is a very complex process, which, apart from technological aspects, must also take into account the social, political and legal context of the implementation itself. They must also analyse and predict possible risks, as well as responses to them. The role of state authorities to participate in the implementation implementation is also a subject that must be well-reviewed and processed to bring about an optimal solution. When implementing a system that is used for the first time, there is usually a problem that actually begins, that is, the problem that a certain certification body cannot only certification itself for the issue of qualified certificates. The problem is usually overcome in such a way that the competent ministry delegates a particular trust authority. But we have to stress what all the requirements need to be met in order for these bodies to be formed, or literally, which is our basic cause, the proposals of a law of this type can be applied in practice. In the view of the SRS Parliamentary Group, it is necessary to design and implement a system that will also technically and legally enable the formation and operation of such a body, and then, when designing and implementing such a system, it is necessary to take care of the technical and legal aspects of implementation. What could also arise as a problem when it comes to such legal solutions is certainly preventing technological dependence, i.e. ensuring the competitiveness of different platforms, so that the system must ensure smooth work with different technologies and platforms. It is also very important that, in order to enable the communication of all domestic entities covered by this bill, the Law on the Electronic Document, as well as all others mentioned, there must be co-operation with relevant international systems in the area. There is no need to make large analyses and studies to conclude that the application of this electronic signature, which we have said is actually a prerequisite for the functioning of the entire business in the Republic of Serbia, will have to have a positive impact on the development of the information and telecommunications sector, as well as on the development of the economy in the country and the region. It is evident that the appropriate application of the law would also lead to the dynamic development of the entire market in Serbia, which would in an indirect manner also cause the development of the rest of the economy, which is also one of the loudest, or most impressive arguments that you have managed as legislators in all of this. Of course, the most significant fields of application in this area are: electronic business (on which we spoke), electronic trade (on which the law was recently adopted), electronic banking (which only in the Republic of Serbia has made a somewhat shift in this sphere), electronic administration (this is what we expect as a big business), and electronic justice, health and payment systems based on chip cards. Business within a business system is indeed a complex business relationship between the internal process of the system and each business process is also a complex mechanism that coordinates more business activities. The very link between the activities of a single process is, in fact, a business relationship at the lowest level and implies a mutual exchange of business information, data and documents. This information, data and documents can, of course, be in paper or electronic form, which should be regulated by this bill, and, of course, by applying modern electronic means and computers, every modern business system should seek to communicate with electronic information and data and to exchange electronically verified documents. The exchange of all that information within one business process, between several processes and one business system, must be standardised and harmonised. That's exactly what our key grudge is about. Therefore, the fact is that there is no harmonised relationship, i.e. there is no national strategy related to e-commerce, which should contain the laws mentioned and the one currently in the assembly procedure. This harmonisation of electronic business, as a more advanced, modern, more efficient and efficient business than a classic paper business, can be brought into line with internal rules, management procedures, the quality of each business system. However, the problem is that each business system has its own internal regulations, less or more good ones, which are mostly neither harmonised nor harmonised. It is precisely because those rules would be harmonised, a unique electronic legal framework is necessary, and this, as seen from the government’s attempt, is not easy to do. The worst is the fact that the whole story is moving a little bit shrizzly, disorganized and unsystematic. This is why the best way to avoid all possible errors and irregularities of future legislation in this area is to launch this project of e-business development strategy, which should cover all the elements of our future electronic development in all social activities, and I mentioned earlier that it was about state administration, state self-government, trade, health, banking education, tourism, sport and culture. I have some information, which is not bad for the public, just to know how far Serbia has arrived with such proposed legal solutions, i.e. with the fact that they are difficult to apply in practice. You know that the most important concern of all countries is that this existing legal framework cannot adequately adapt to electronic business and that existing laws can often pose an obstacle to global electronic trade growth. Since legal certainty and trust are the main issue of any trade transaction, the very credibility of e-commerce will, in general, depend on the capacity of the domestic legislator, therefore, on the government or the ministry as the competent within that government, to define in a clear, concrete way and create a solid and comprehensive legal environment for electronic operations, which, as one of its main tasks, should build trust. In this segment, in principle, we pointed out the possibility of mistrust, i.e. abuse in this whole story, and it is clear that the Republic of Serbia, or the Government, can, or must respect its development priorities and the traditional legal culture it has. Starting from all of this, the key areas that should be equal when building a legal framework for electronic business, and I don't think that the current proposals for the law have included, are areas relating to data protection, secure form of contract in a legal and commercial sense, regulation of the Internet environment, fullness of electronic signature, consumer protection, electronic privacy, issues related to dispute settlement, including through the network, intellectual property rights, rules governing content on the Internet. Also, what is not yet subject to the assembly procedure is the law on electronic archiving, as well as the law on free access to information, i.e. the law on the protection of personal data. This is not a naive area, obviously of which there is no interest above all MPs of the ruling coalition. Because you know that even such an important area as the tax policy can also encourage or slow down the development of the electronic business framework, so that the framework conditions of taxation and cite some principles of taxation that should be applied to electronic trade and electronic business, namely neutrality, efficiency, certainty, simplicity, efficiency, justice and flexibility. It is certain that the Internet also affects public finances. On the one hand, transactions through electronic trade that can replace classical sales types pose a threat to tax revenues. On the other hand, the internet can also facilitate tax collection and tax rebate processing, with a reduction in income outflows and transaction costs linked to the tax system. With all this in mind, I am expressing my disappointment once again, given that the legislator, nor when it comes to the proposal for an electronic document law, nor when we talked about the e-commerce law, showed a minimum of tolerance, or a desire to find better-quality solutions to regulate the legal framework for an area that is and how important it is during the time that is yet to come. Recent data show that the level of development of electronic administration in Serbia is the lowest among 30 European countries studied. This practically means that Serbian citizens can do very little administrative work, only about 27%, to do it online without going to the competent state institutions. This is a problem also mentioned by counterpart Lidija Dimitrijevic, a problem which, unless properly framed by legal regulation, will continue to follow everything that awaits us. For example, citizens can come up with information about state administration services and possibly take over forms from websites for different documents, but not that some administrative work is fully done by electronic means, that they register a vehicle or a company, or they get a building permit. Electronic signature is one of the main conditions for the development of online business and electronic administration. The data that, here, for the fifth year as it is in force, but still not applied in the way it should be in practice, is quite worrying, when it comes to the Republic of Serbia. How important he is to testify and an example of Estonia – in this country every full-time citizen is obliged to have his own unique electronic signature, and the same request is made to foreign citizens who have stayed in the country for more than a year. According to some last year's data, the Serbian government has singled out about 700,000 dinars for the development of the electronic administration. The quality and development of services provided to public service users in Serbia, according to this European methodology, was estimated by 34% compared to Europe where the average rating is 76% – practically, twice as weak, or worse. The sophistication of the service, as the most important parameter monitored in the survey, implies precisely the quality of an electronic service, and on a scale of zero to five, Serbia received a score of two, while in Europe the average rating is slightly lower than four. So, Serbian citizens cannot do much online because there is no two-way communication between them and state authorities. That is exactly the problem we have been pointing to one of the next amendments that will later be spoken of. The most elaborate state services on the Internet are services of the National Employment Service with 70%, which means that there is interactivity and data exchange between the state and citizens only in that segment; there are public libraries, with 60% availability for citizens, which means that citizens can search databases and catalogues, as well as book reservations in some of the 77 libraries that are currently in the electronic system. The most underdeveloped electronic service is in health and home service. While in the first area, with the exception of all one home of health in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, citizens cannot schedule an online review, in the case of parent services about 50% of citizens cannot find even basic information about the work of the service, nor how they can obtain a copy from the parent book. In only 37 municipalities in Serbia, citizens can obtain a copy of the parent books without going to the municipality. When it comes to electronic administration for legal persons, the situation is slightly less bad, so the availability rate is about 45%, which means companies can take most of the necessary documentation to download from the internet, unlike citizens. In comparison, the availability of information and documents, even in Bulgaria and Romania, crosses those 50% in all rated segments. The best country in Europe in terms of the development of electronic administration is Austria, with almost 100%, which means that citizens and businesses can do almost all administrative jobs and get all the necessary documents online, and then on the scale, according to the survey, followed by Malta, Portugal and Slovenia. I will use this time to say that there is a single problem, and that is that our country has persistently not adhered to one principle, which is the principle of open electronic documents – no electronic document published by the state authorities should be in a format that is not open and readable to all. Unfortunately, we don't respect that. It is clear that Microsoft extends to a large extent because on government, ministries, government agencies and other institutions it is common for documents to be published in formats that only Microsoft programmes can read. So it's obvious that access is limited only to those who have the latest Microsoft programs. Very often you will be able to download the text of a law from a ministry site, but again only in Microsoft ofis, and you will rarely get a data input program that works only under Microsoft office, and will still threaten you with serious punishment if you do not send the data in time and in that particular format. For example, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce site cannot be accessed without Internet Explorers. Banks (probably you, co-workers and fellow MPs, witness it) also receive the report again in Microsoft format, unreadable in other programmes. Not to mention those common situations that you can't even get into a website if you don't have a Windows Internet Explorer. It is clear that it is high time for the state of Serbia and for this matter to be serious, but there seem to be a lot of questions where additional seriousness is needed, so obviously this is not a priority. What is necessary is that there is a regulation prohibiting the use of digital documents related to specific, especially commercial, formats for public use. The public document must always be available in an open format, which is available to everyone. It is simply unacceptable for someone to buy and use a specific programme to read a public document issued by any government institution, company or the like. Something like that has to be strictly forbidden. Citizens and businesses must be guaranteed that they will receive electronic documents in a format that they can read regardless of what computer they have and which operating system they use, which programs they have installed. They must always be left with a choice of programs to read the document. In particular, they must not be conditioned to buy certain programs. This should apply, first of all, to data in electronic form, which must be made available to everyone in a readable form, but also data sent must be accepted in a form that anyone can make. It's one topic to think about when it comes to the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Systems. Another thing that stands out as a problem is the fact that when talking about all this, in general, about electronic business in Serbia, it is clear that it has not been developed to the extent to which it should be. As I said earlier, the most shifts in the use of e-business benefits were made by financial institutions, or banks. The reasons for such a bad situation, i.e. insufficient development in the field of electronic business, lie in several different factors. One of the most important factors is certainly an insufficient number of computers. Another factor affecting the difficult development of electronic business is the number of users with fast internet connections, and the reasons for this are numerous, but the one who points out is certainly the existence of a monopolies who dictate prices and quality. In order to achieve any shift, or development, it is necessary to introduce electronic public services, I repeat, such as electronic administration, health and electronic learning, as well as an environment that will enable electronic business to develop. Such public services must be a catalyst for change in user habits and as such contribute to the development of electronic business. Of course, in order for all of this to be possible, there must be reliable information infrastructure and opportunities to use the fast internet at competitive prices. One of the essential parts, what should be done is some national strategy for the development of the information society. For the past few years, electronic business has been practically a driver for the growth of the world economy. For example, online advertising profits, according to some studies from 2007, will exceed advertising profits in print media by 2010. Of the 70m euros spent on advertising in Serbia in 2006, only 1.26m euros went to online advertising. Electronic business plays a major role in international business and greatly facilitates it, so that the lack of the potential of electronic business leads to a limited development of national economy. Electronic trade should be one of the most represented types of electronic business. However, as we have already been able to conclude, it did not live to the right extent in Serbia, nor did it benefit the wider circle of people. The reason for this situation is several, and I have already mentioned some: a lack of fast internet connection, but also a lack of valid credit cards and payment funds, so that, for example, the "single sex" still cannot be used from Serbia; then, a lack of trust in internet transactions, as well as the fact that practically Serbia lacks an electronic signature. Serbia was the last country in Europe to pass the Law on Electronic Signature, which, by who knows which time we find out, still does not have its application in practice the way we should. In the countries of the European Union, on the basis of which the directive is also the draft law in the assembly procedure, over 60% of trade is currently being done by electronic means. The application of the electronic signature, i.e. business changes the overall business environment and creates conditions for business to be done differently, and that primarily implies faster, more efficient and more economical. The future of development of overall electronic business in Serbia will depend heavily on the pace of electronic trade development. I say again, the biggest problem with e-business is that the documents that are passed on via the Internet are very sensitive and that protection from the abuse of hackers is necessary. Also, in electronic business, this is one of our general remarks, the most common question is whether an unauthorized person had any insight into the documents that are subject to business, or the fact who sent the document in electronic form, whether something was changed in that document, etc. So that security segment is very important. I believe that the proposed law does not pay enough attention to this and therefore the SRS Parliamentary Group has tried to correct certain shortcomings through amendments. However, I say again, we have not come across understanding, and there is nothing left for us but to express our mistrust and not to provide support when it comes to the proposed law on the electronic document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23861	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have proposed a logical solution when it comes to Article 8(2) relating to the confirmation of the receipt of an electronic document – I request that the confirmation of the electronic document be issued by the recipient or the information intermediary. The word "compulsory" shall be added in relation to the bill, which does not exist, in order to oblige the recipient or the information intermediary to provide an answer whether it has received the information. Article 8(4) states: ‘The obligation to issue a certificate of acceptance of the electronic document and the elements of the content of the certificate shall be governed by special regulations or by the will of the parties, if the law is not otherwise laid down. “ With this amendment, I have suggested that this should be laid down by law, because the will of the parties can be misused. The case works, I can ask the municipality to give me assurance of citizenship. I'm not sure if the municipality received my request if I don't get an answer because on the other hand someone may not have had the will to pass it on to me. If we're considering the fact that I urgently need a document, probably because of that and I'm looking for it by electronic means, and I'm not going to go personally for the document, I should have some answer from the person I sent the request to, on any matter of whether my request is accepted or not, whether I'm going to get any answer and whether I'm going to exercise my right to the document.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23863	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you're a lady and I'm a little embarrassed to give you two objections. The first one isn't so important, because this isn't the first time that of the 15 amendments, absolutely correct and well-intentioned, none of them are accepted; that's what we're going through, that's what we're used to. The second is, because the 30-minute exposure of Mr. Vladan Jeremic, indeed justified and professionally, you did not listen at all. You are here on behalf of the Government to listen; if you have not accepted the amendments when we have sent them in writing, not electronically, to the Government, then at least here you should listen to the MPs in order to perhaps accept some amendment. Don't mind me, you're a lady, but I had to take this out. Let me comment on my amendment. We passed the Law on Electronic Signature in 2004, followed by the Law on the Electronic Document, the Electronic Sessions of the Government; the Prime Minister commended you for that, you probably made the biggest contribution, and I congratulate you electronically. But where is life in Serbia? What do the citizens of Serbia have out of this? What about free shares? You're the government's representative here, regardless of who you are at the head of the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Society, you should know this and run one of the government's sessions. What about free shares? What about the ransom price of raspberries, the ransom price of wheat, the ransom price of milk? What about pensions, jobs, taxes, is there going to be an increase or not? The price of oil in Serbia has increased five times in the last two months. Can we improve our lives electronically? With a government like this, we can't count on a safe life tomorrow, let alone a promotion. Unlike you, I have listened carefully to the People's MP, Jeremiah, even though I have sought, regarding this area. We've seen that the electronic communications system is the weakest developed when it comes to health and parent services, and in this particular sphere it should be the most developed, but that's why it's very developed in the library work, how ready we are, how much we run to read books, that's what we know. You, as minister, should do something in these two areas, in the area of health and maternity services, so that citizens of Serbia can benefit from it. Is there anything in this law that is also for us MPs of the SRS, who at this time represent the largest number of Serbian citizens, acceptable? Unlike many others, I have two facts to point out. The first is that (though, the law is short, 25 members) we do not call in the explanation that this is an obligation for us to join and step forward towards the European Union. But this exists in developed countries of the West and the world in general and this is what the citizens of Serbia want, and this is what the SRS wants. So we don't call, we don't say we have to do it for it. And, something very important to us, this is one of the few laws that this government has proposed, or the government where you are minister, without introducing a new agency, committee, commission, or what you want to call it, where new employment would be expected. That's something we need to assess positively. There is no place in this law for such a thing. There is neither need nor possibility in others, when it comes to the standard of Serbian citizens, but this government has proposed and the assembly majority has adopted it. My amendment is quite meaningful, and I think there was a lot of reason for him to accept it. You didn't do it first, and I shouldn't have to say you're not going to do it now. I have submitted an amendment to Article 10(3) where it states: “The submission made as an electronic document by natural and legal persons (party) shall be delivered to the authorities via e-mail to the e-mail address designated by the Authority for the reception of electronic submissions or other electronic means, in accordance with the law. The authority which received the submission referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall, without delay, confirm to the parties the acceptance of the submission. I propose to add more -- legal persons, "to the parties, on their request, by electronic means. “ You did not accept that amendment, and in your explanation you said that the title was above article 10. ‘Delivering of electronic documents between authorities and parties’. It really does, I haven't intervened about the title, but I think this amendment is absolutely acceptable and probably the quality of this law would be corrected. Not only this amendment, all amendments, and 14 of them are related to this law, which the Serbian Radical Party submitted would absolutely improve the quality of this law. I suggest you accept both this and the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23865	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23866	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, any communication via e-mail involves a certain operator, i.e. information language, it would be said – a suitable provider. The draft law does not define who the operator is when it comes to the delivery of electronic documents between authorities. With this amendment, we wanted to specify the provision of Article 11. The bill and we have offered a much better and more precise formulation by which the delivery of electronic documents between authorities will be carried out via e-mail or other electronic means, through a public postal operator. We suggested that electronic communications and electronic delivery between authorities go through mail. We believe that such a solution is most appropriate and thus avoid all possible abuses when it comes to electronic delivery. Of course, abuses are and as far as possible, they are already there. We believe that this solution prevents any such abuse in advance and pre-defined that when it comes to electronic communication between authorities in the Republic of Serbia, an operator must be a post office. We think that's the most logical solution. It is completely unclear why the government has rejected this amendment. They argue in their explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 11. The draft law covers the possibility of delivering electronic documents via e-mail or other electronic means in accordance with a specific regulation, as well as the Law on Postage Services. Such an explanation means nothing. A special regulation can also be the Law on Wine and Cancer, it can be any possible law that exists in the Republic of Serbia. How do we know that this applies to the Law on Postage Services? If you wanted an operator in electronic communication between the authorities to be a post office, then you should have accepted our amendment. No, you refused the amendment, apparently not good, but you are in a position to explain why you do not accept the amendment confirmed that exactly what it says in the amendment is because you made it clear that this special regulation that will regulate who is the operator in electronic communication between the authorities of the Post Office is the Law on Postal Services. From your explanation, there is an unequivocal conclusion that a public postal operator will actually be a provider when it comes to electronic communication between authorities. The amendment absolutely makes sense and he just makes sense what you wanted to say, probably, in Article 11, but you didn't say, I don't know for what reasons; I guess you thought it was better not to say, that the law would be shorter than it is. In this context, it absolutely made sense to indicate that the provider, when it comes to electronic communication between the authorities, was a public postal operator. Otherwise, you could have heard, Madam Minister, a lot of new things from my distinguished colleague, Jeremic, which I believe you didn't know yourself either. It would be good for you to engage in verbal communication with the MPs and to verbally explain to us why our amendments don't make sense and why they should have been rejected. Otherwise, this law will remain a dead letter in the paper until you change, among other things, the General Administrative Procedure Act. You are probably familiar with, as I and most Serbian citizens know, that the draft new law on general administrative procedure was completed in autumn 2004. The draft law, along with a set of other draft laws in the field of state administration, was promoted at a conference at the Hayat Hotel in Belgrade in November 2004. The law was made under the auspices of the OSCE mission in Serbia and with the financial support of the UNDP. The question arises why has the draft law been in someone's drawer since 2004, and why has it not been put into the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? As long as you don't pass a new law on general administrative procedure, this law that you're going to vote on these days will not be applicable. We have a situation once again that legal solutions are not compatible, that they are mutually exclusive, and all of your stories that new laws are in line with European standards fall into the water before the fact that they cannot be applied in practice. Therefore, until you pass a new law on general administrative procedure, this law will not be able to assist citizens in the exercise of their fundamental human rights, when it comes to procedures before the municipal, or city administration, or the competent state authorities of the administration. These days, certain municipal authorities in Serbia, in which the government makes DS praise, have been able to enable citizens to exercise their rights by electronic means. In most cases, as counterpart Jeremic pointed out, this applies only to the issue of certain public documents such as copies from the parent books. In all other cases, procedures last from several months to several years. Citizens are again forced to break the counters, to go from one to the next. Of all what was announced in 2004 as a comprehensive reform of the state administration so far, absolutely nothing. Procedures before the state administration, and before the municipal, or city administrations, continue to be inadmissible for a long time. We still have a massive administration, especially at the state level. If you adopt this Statute of Vojvodina, as proposed by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, then count on the province's administration in Novi Sad to be twice as large as it is now. To recap, the amendment we submitted to article 11. Absolutely makes sense. If that were the case, you yourself admitted in an explanation why you do not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23867	The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23868	In Article 12 following Article 3, a new position 4 is added, which reads: “The Ministry responsible for the Information Society is closer to the regulation of forms, deadlines and how long-term storage of electronic documents is carried out. “ In the light of this amendment, we have pointed out that the provision of Article 12 is unspecified and that the Ministry of Sublegal Act should regulate the forms, deadlines and manner of keeping electronic documents. Your explanation for why the amendment is not accepted differs from the reasoning that you gave for Article 12 in the bill in one, just at first glance, little things. Namely, in the light of the non-acceptance of the amendment – for the reasons that deadlines, formats and methods of keeping are governed by the rules on archival structure, as you pointed out in the explanation – you are missing out, as you do in the reasoning of Article 12, that the law on archival construction is in preparation. That's why we predicted that the Underlaw Department would regulate this area by means of a sublegal act. So it would be perfectly normal and well if you had accepted this amendment for these exceptional reasons. However, you continue with the old practice that anything that comes from the opposition does not read, reject and simply do not accept. That's why all of your laws that you bring really look alike to each other, but only because they last very briefly. They really remind the most of a spider, through which only horns break through, and flies catch up with it. Who in your laws are the hornets who break these laws of yours, I think now it's clear to all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23869	Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23870	Dear Presidents, colleagues, on Article 14(3), I have submitted an amendment to replace the word "Minister" with the word "Ministership". This is a principled view that these tasks should be carried out by the ministry as an authority of the state administration, not by the minister as an individual. So I'm basically against raising a minister above the ministry. Although the minister manages the ministry, jobs are done and done by ministry workers. I see your desire and attempt to promote your personnel to that level as if they were little gods walking the earth, that after them would be a flood and that there were no experts in this caliber in the world. But reality is different. The works say everything. Or, more specifically, a misdemeanor. Those poor people in Lapov who lie on the track are very interested in the e-business law, the electronic signature will fill their stomachs and buy children shoes. Or the ones in Kragujevac they let the dogs on. I mean, you missed your priorities. It's what the ministry says on the stamp, not the minister and the one, the expert on this and that. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that these tasks should be carried out by the ministry, as an authority of the state administration, not as an individual minister, whatever expert it is and for which area it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23871	National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević and Milica Radovic together submitted the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23872	Thank you, Madam President. Article 14 is set out in Chapter V of the Bill, whose title is the Time Mark. In that chapter we have seven-eight members who regulate up to in detail the system for the formation of the time stamp, the requirement for the formation of the time stamp, the content of the time stamp structure, the time contained in the time stamp, the storage of the time stamp, etc. I suppose that the proposer of this law has relied somewhat on this draft general administrative procedure law which has not yet arrived; however, there is a current Law on General Administrative Procedure, as well as a Regulation on office operations, so that some obligations are also contained here. The amendment refers to Article 14, paragraph 3, where, after the wording, "the minister responsible for the information society (hereinafter referred to as the Minister)" adds the words "in a 90-day period, the conditions that must be met by the time stamp system". Like other fellow opposition MPs who have submitted amendments, I also don't understand why the government has not accepted this amendment, especially because we believe it is necessary to set a deadline. If they didn't agree with a 90-day deadline, maybe it could have been discussed, maybe longer. In any case, it is not good to prescribe an obligation like this, and it is prescribed closer terms, and there is no time for which the minister (or ministry) to fulfil that obligation. It's a good thing we have this law on the agenda. It is likely to be voted, because this is a step further towards building a legal framework towards a more successful, more orderly electronic business in Serbia, which is currently on very low branches and can be freely said to be very disorganised and undeveloped. This is a step further. The first major step was the Law on Electronic Signature, which was passed since 2004, but we all know that people in the area are very unhappy with the application of the law, which is already five years old, because there are problems with its application. It is most resentful that there are no certain laws that would regulate the area even better, and we are late to adopt sublegal acts. Another major problem is that certain systems have not developed their services, or services. There has been a lot of talk here about health care not developing this system, not having its own internal package of services available to citizens. The maternity services haven't even started applying this yet. I would mention another possibility, which has not been mentioned, which is the possibility of applying quality electronic communication in the field of education. In some countries (I think there are some private schools in Belgrade). the electronic log system. It is a practical possibility for parents or guardians to communicate at any time with a class elder or with the teachers concerned, not only when it comes to grades. You can see at any moment whether there is a change in your child's assessment, but not only that, there is the possibility of daily communication with the teachers and class elders in question. This isn't that far or impossible, if we know that all schools mostly possess quality equipment. In all schools, you have IT teachers. We have, mostly, equipment and we have a quality frame; the next step should be done. I see here the role of the Ministry of Telecommunications, which can be very helpful. Of course, I'm not saying this because I think that this kind of communication can replace a conversation in four eyes, that it can replace that personal communication; we're witnessing that parents can't arrive, that they don't have time, that very often they don't inform themselves about what's going on with their child, whether in primary or high school. It is something that can start to apply in Serbia, although it looks complicated, and in fact we have all the basics that can happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23873	Thank you. Mrs. Minister Mr. Jasna Matic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Banovic, first of all, thank you very much for your amendment and for your remarks. I would like to tell you that the question of deadlines for the adoption of all sublegal acts is uniquely resolved in the bill, and also for part of the law relating to the time stamp – within six months, which I know you have had an objection, but which we believe we will be able to respect in any case, and our goal is to end it within three months. Also, I would like to refer to the issue raised by the SRS MPs, and the question is that the sublaw is brought by the minister. The issue has been explicitly defined by the Law on State Administration as such and the power of the minister is to adopt sublegal acts. It is this solution that has also been imposed in the legal and technical regulation of draft laws by the Legislative Secretariat and represents only what has been given by law, and in no way is the intention of the minister, anyone, to do such a thing. I might also ask the SRS MPs to propose to amend the Law on State Administration and put it in the power of the ministry, because it may more faithfully reflect reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23875	Thank you, Madam Minister. National MP Vladan Jeremic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23876	Thank you. I tried to react a little while ago, while there was a debate about law enforcement and the protection of electronic documents, but it seems that this electronic communication is not very good for us today. Frapantan is the fact that the latest technical conditions of the Republic Telecommunications Agency in connection with the installation and equipment of the internet network in Serbia are practically the elements of the "Big Brother" in which the state is allowed to absorb and use all the information related to our online presence. One of the most interesting members of this provision is: “The Internet service provider is obliged to provide hardware and traffic monitoring software within its technical system between an arbitrary subscriber, via an Internet service provider, according to the third Internet provider. Hardware and software provided by the Internet service provider should enable: passive monitoring of real-time internet activities, collection and analysis of internet activity statistics, interception of e-mails, associated content (attachment) and web-mail processing, interception of IP telephone traffic, fax and IP video traffic, intercepting instant traffic manager and intercepting traffic jams on beer to beer networks. Hardware and software should enable the reconstruction of intercepted traffic to application level and filtering by user name or user phone number, e-mail address, address or range, MAC address and instant manager identification. “ It is good that Minister Jasna Matic is present. We think something like this is inadmissible, so if you want this to not only turn into electronic communication, I'd like to hear the Ministry's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23877	Thank you. Madam Minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23878	Although it is not the subject of this session today, I would just like to reply that the document in question, namely technical conditions, was the subject of careful consideration of the Ministry and consultation with the Ombudsman, i.e. the Protector of the Rights of the Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that all these technical conditions defined here are only possible as a technical aspect of the law of the prescribed activities of the competent services in the prescribed process of monitoring the communication of the person. Only when there's a court order can all of this be done as you state. Similar technical conditions have been defined in other aspects of traffic, both postal and telephone, and this act only defines what it is that technically must be enabled when the competent authority has a court order to monitor and monitor.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23879	Thank you. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dusanka Plecevic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23880	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 15. The proposal for an electronic document law requesting that the word "minister" be replaced by "minister" in point 5. As in all the proposals submitted so far, the laws that came into the assembly procedure, where certain members of the law handled the same matter, was the SRS' view that jobs should be carried out by the ministry as an authority as a state administration, not by the minister as an individual. The minister is not an institution, but a ministry, and he should not identify his function with the institution, especially when it comes to the laws of the institution. It's a whole other thing when it comes to the powers that the minister has. He has the authority to represent the ministry, not to identify with it and act like he's the entire ministry. It is obvious that all the ministers whose moves we have criticised are under the psychological impression of DOS Ministerial Gardens, whose main feature is – once and for all, the minister, the majority minister or minister of general practice. Any guy belonging to a minister, they all fall into the same trap. Unfortunately, among the ruling personnel, there are no more visionaries who would have sent them to professional treatment for the withdrawal of these addictions, as Milosevic and Djindjic did in the past with their most faithful copyists. Since this takes the form of an epidemic called "me", "no one like me", "Minister, it's me", "and after the minister-minister", I suggest that the authorities do something urgent. Otherwise, don't be surprised if we Members of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and after the end of our mandates will, as usual, attend the meetings of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23881	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic to Article 16. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 24th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević and Milica Radovic and MP Zoran Krasic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) First Mrs. Donka Banović reported and then Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23882	With this amendment, we propose to replace the words "six months" with the words "three months". In fact, Article 24 speaks of deadlines for the adoption of all sublegal acts. The minister practically responded to me earlier; he remembers that the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted an amendment that reduces the deadline from six months to three months. In front of all of us here, she told us that the Ministry intends to fulfill this obligation, when it comes to the adoption of sublegal acts, within three months, so I don't see why you haven't accepted this amendment, if you've decided to fix it in three months, not six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23883	Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23884	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, how much time do we have, except for these two minutes, so I know how far I can go?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23885	You have 24 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23886	If there's anything longer than two minutes, count it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23887	No problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23888	So I solved one problem, so I don't get a warning. You see, my amendment has been rejected. Of course, in what comes next, I'm not going to use any computer expressions, because I'm really poor at it. I am not a representative of that theory of "expert in front of politics", since the National Assembly is still a place where politics is conducted, expertise is elsewhere. But I really don't deal with these terms. But with sociology, philosophy and logic, I seem to be doing a little bit better, so some things really don't make sense to me. Now I'm going to try to share this with the citizens who are monitoring this transmission, because we really have problems with these communications online, how to make it official and how to guarantee it, that it's true, that the state guarantees, that there are no abuses. Of course, there is, above all, a late state, that part of the professional work in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that needs to ensure both reliability and accuracy and assurance that all the participants in this business are safe, that no one would cheat on them, because, you know, almost everyone is listening to us. He's listening in on official B.I.A. duty, then the Army, the CIA, then some of these parties, and then that savage, with that last name, and then some media. And a little bit, you see in the paper a transcript of a secret conversation or some documentation that may have been transmitted online, so someone intercepted what Mr. Jeremic was talking about earlier. A kind of phobia exists, an innate phobia among Serbian citizens, that they are the subject of the processing of "experience ahead of politics". You remember that Savior who was in UBPOK, that young man, some godfather, I don't know what he was, and he was listening to Mladjan Dinkic, and he even went so far as to be intimate with some who were being listened to. But it's not the subject of this amendment. This amendment aims to speed up the state's regulation to regulate what it has reserved under the law. Since we have a government running towards Europe and the EU, then we decided to make a small contribution, to speed it up a little bit. We said why work six months when you can in three months. So you will sooner prove yourself at Olli Rehn, Javier Solana, at Obama, Brammertz, at Natasa Kandić, etc. Do you know what these government people are responding to in an explanation? Please pay attention, he says: “... request", meaning they need time for this, "analysis and application of certain standards and standard organisational and technical conditions and working procedures in this area, analysis of regulations and practices of European Union countries... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” You don't know the rules of the European Union? Well, you've been haunting us here for years with some recommendations and directives, European standards run out of sleeves when someone from G 17 plus shows up. You are the first minister to say, well, wait, the first step is to cheat you with the law, and the second step is to check something, what the rules are in the EU, so we can eventually figure out what suits us, so we can suggest. You see how standards change, how messages change to citizens. They didn't say – we'll check it out, check out the condition so we can see how to organize production in the flag. No, “Fiat” comes right away and – a cricket, came “Delta” with spare parts, composing. The whole country is helping "Delta", counting on helping "Fiat". And here, probably, the one representing Microsoft is not from G 17 plus, or that jumper with the stick, it's closer to the Democratic Party than G 17 plus. Why should the state suffer your internal conflicts, your internal parcels? Here, on one simple question came the truth – the Ministry is unable to bring sublaws. Let's move on. What's the Ministry supposed to bring? It is stated in Article 24, here, now that the Minister has just learned what to say, you see: "The Underlaw Act to implement this law will be adopted by the Ministry within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. “ Article 24 does not say, ma’am, that the minister, but the ministry. Because the Ministry is a state body. That's what your bill says, Article 24. Two rows. It's not a mistake. This is the correct formulation. What does this provision apply to? This provision applies to something already prescribed in Article 14(3). It reads: "The minister responsible for the information society prescribes closer conditions that must meet the system for the formation of the time stamp. “ What else? Article 15(5): ‘The Minister shall prescribe the content and manner of keeping the register and the closer conditions and registration procedure. “ Article 16 paragraph 3: “The Minister prescribes a closer content of the requirements for the formation of a time stamp. “ And Article 17 paragraph 2: “The Minister prescribes closer content of the time stamp data structure. “ Is it possible that you who have done the bill have not already done so? That's impossible. You had to have it already, and that way you already tried it preventively, before the draft came, before the proposal, what it looks like, how it works. You had to tap into the Internet once and ask one of your friends abroad how it works with them, give you these sublaws and those standards, copy it, translate it, etc. No, you're just going to put your finger on your forehead later, so you're going to think, like you put your finger on your forehead with an electronic signature and you've been thinking. In fact, we have the situation – epochal law, as announced, with modest application and modest results. I only remind you of what we talked about in the principle debate. Our children who work with these computers, on the Internet, etc., and not just our children, but all the people who do it, not counting on me, are very intelligent people for these things. They break through these areas, they're bogeymen for these areas, but who's holding them back? The state is holding them back. The government is holding them back. For what? I have no answer to the question why the state is stopping it. When they appear on television or when you read them interviews, those who fly headless – into the European Union, in Europe. This has nothing to do with Europe or the European Union, this has to do with the essential requirements of our youth, and business and other things, where there should be no interference, except that we have to ask the state to provide conditions and guarantee that there is no abuse. Whoever needs to create conditions and guarantee that there will be no abuse, he says, "Here is the bill, we will see that in six months we will write sublaws, but we will try to make it in three months." What will be law enforcement and who will be a guarantee, they don't care. When you talk about your expertise in front of politics, as far as I know, that expertise in front of politics is only seen in the count of bills. Let me draw your attention to something. You say this: "The process of marking the time contained in the time stamp is closer to the minister's regulation. “ You must also pass that regulation. You don't know about that regulation. In your explanation, you only made a call to members 14, 15, 17, and you didn't mention 18. And here's your pass. Now look at something else, this will be laughed at by people who understand little: “The Organ is responsible for supervision – the supervision of the implementation of this law and the regulations adopted under the law is carried out by the Ministry. “ Time stamp inspection is done through an electronic signature inspector. Surveillance and inspection are two completely separate things. If you were talking here about inspection surveillance, then you had to have at least 20 other provisions that define what inspection surveillance is. There must be some specificity. It's not inspection surveillance as a sanitary inspection. You don't care about that at all. You're an expert in front of politics when it comes to television, but when it comes to something that needs to be wiped out, to work, etc., you're gone. We have an imaginary ministry. There's chaos in the telecommunications sector, total chaos. No one asks the Ministry for anything. What's that supposed to mean? Two regulations could not be passed, about the electronic signature and about the electronic document. They're giving us some classes here. G17 plus all he knows is he's counting money and nothing else, everything else is lies and fraud. Whoever's lying, he's stealing. Whoever steals is going to jail. Whoever goes to jail, he's got fleas. We don't hang out with those who have fleas. It's a folk saying. You can rip as much as you want. If you're going into new technologies, give us regulations and give us guarantees, not soft stories here, some fairy tales you're telling us. It takes you six months to come up with some regulation! The entire contents of your register are located in one of these members. It's in article 17. It's all about the content of the register. You don't care, you've got some titles on you, you're playing some size, and now you need the whole people to walk in front of you. It's just enough to tell the EU. They can't wait for us to come. Who can't wait for you? Well, the people aren't waiting for you either, they can't wait to see you again. It's our destiny with this power. They're trying, counting on no one to know anything. If you'd taken a younger SRS to give you a computer lecture or the Internet... Just smile while others starve. Central question – what interests are behind what Mr. Vladan Jeremic was talking about? Why can't some operating systems and others can't? We had the opportunity, a few days ago, to watch the e-session of the government, and who prepared that program; we hear there's going to be a new climate here, and we don't get answers to the most basic question. Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, do you remember, at the end of last year, in that hall there, twice you had to interrupt the National Assembly session because of my questions about how much money was laundered in fixing this building? I told you there was also a report of a budget inspection from the time Mr. Shami was president of the assembly. The big report was divided into all parliamentary groups, and then the investigation began. You promised me I'd get an answer in 30 days. Here, it's been nine months and there's no answer. It's just to remind you of something that is a commitment. That's when I named exactly who was standing at the head of that team that was the subject of an interest in budgetary inspection. That's when I said I didn't want to mention that you wouldn't be squirming, but just to warn you that I didn't get the answer, and now it's moving into some other reconstructions here, even though you all know there are no elemental conditions for the work of MPs. If you're already falling for this Europe so uncritically, with an arbitrary choice that the law by name could fit the ears of those Eurofanatics, then take care of what you suggest. Such unfinished, unfinished, unprepared or, why not say, the pilot project laws don't give to us anymore, because these laws do not depend on life in Serbia. I'm not saying they're not important, they're important for technology and any other progress, not to lose the pace, but what's worth what the people want technological progress and not wanting to lose that pace when we have this kind of power that's more media, promotional political strength, but with its works. That's our problem. Just to remind you, you there in the government, that some countries in our environment in order to fight this global financial crisis, among other things, have drawn up some of their programs to connect state authorities, how to connect all institutions and how to reduce paper consumption. But this government of ours doesn't even think about it. She didn't do anything to think about it, and it's important to them that the financial sector can operate, that that electronic communication between banks and NBS exists. She's not problematic, she's awake, and for others -- they don't care, we can do it in six months and in a year, we can even when the free actions you promised, and then we can develop electronic communication. Mrs. Djukić-Dejanovic, may I remind you: the ambulance in the village of Ugljarevac, your neighborhood, is not your end, but Kragujevac; some Verko, say that the president, mayor, and some Miša from G17 plus want to shut down that clinic serving five villages (Doberac, Mala Vrbica, Ugljarevac, Velika Šeh, Ramaca). Verko wants to transfer the infirmary to the village of Grbavica for only 200 inhabitants; there is nothing gravitating, and here over 1,000 people. I'm putting this in the context of an electronic document, Mrs. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Take the opportunity to send an electronic document to Verka and this mouse from G17 plus, so these poor peasants don't torture, because they have a doctor, a nurse, and some time a pharmacy that opens up to them. If this moves to another village, then Kragujevac is much closer to them than that village. At least do something for these citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23889	Thank you. You've gone a little off the subject, but for the public's sake, I need to give you some information. A financial structure related to the space in which we received your written report, each MP, in person. The financial structure was created before this assembly of parliament was formed, and only the realization came at a time when this assembly worked. You've made a few mistakes, the village's called Big Shanj, and the other one's humps, but still. You are fully required that this infirmary works, however, the mode of work of the healthcare institution is not the topic of the agenda today, but your request is fine. Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does Mr Jasna Matic, Minister of Telecommunications and Information Society, want to give the final word? Yeah. Like last time, the last call was when I asked who wanted a word after the amendment. Since no one answered immediately, the Rules of Procedure clearly regulate it. Well, if you want something that's very important, I don't think the Minister would mind if we heard from you, although it's past the Rules of Procedure, you know. Please, you have to follow. Article 144 states: "When the draft law is completed, in particular, the right to the final word shall be given by the Proposer, or by the Authorised Representative of the Proposer". So no more discussion. Your time is up. After all, he answered, only he couldn't go ahead with the others who came forward after the amendment and the applicants were the amendments, because he wasn't the bearer of the amendment, so I gave it to him before we moved on to the final word. The moment the discussion ends. This member is very clear. Here you go, Mr. Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23890	Thank you. You see, sometimes it's not bad for the Rules of Procedure to be interpreted a little differently. I won't be long, I'll try to recapture what we had today in the congregation debate. So another draft law in the form of this Eurofanatism, as it is also proposed as a directive of the European Union. Speaking of which, I would like to remind you that several years ago in Lisbon, the EU defined its strategy for the development of an information society in order to preserve the economic level of development of EU member states in modern business conditions and allow it to grow further. Thus, the Council of Ministers adopted an action plan "E Europe 2005", aimed at having modern public electronic services and a favourable environment for the development of electronic business by the end of 2005. Serbia, as a member of the Electronic Southeast Europe Initiative, which operates within the Southeast European Stability Pact, signed the Agenda for the Development of the Information Society back in 2002, seven years ago. The document provides that Serbia should adopt a policy and strategy for the development of an information society, adopt and implement legal infrastructure for an information society, which meant the adoption of more laws, such as the Law on Telecommunications, the Law on Electronic Business, the Law on Crime on the Internet, the Law on the Protection of Intellectual Property, the Law on the Protection of Privacy of Data and Information, and the establishment of regional co-operation in this area. It is clear that there is nothing more than that, and that is why Serbia will enter the EU in 2027 if the EU still exists by then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23891	Thank you. Madam Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23892	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to thank you for the interest you have shown on the subject of the information society and especially on the electronic document law that we discussed today. I would especially like to thank Mr. Jeremic, who obviously has a high level of interest in this area and who has asked some questions that are really important. For his final presentation, I would like to say that these are priorities not only of our ministry, but of the government and that many things have been done. I am sure that the Republic of Serbia will become a member of the EU long before that, and I will certainly try to make it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-06-23-0.u23893	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Dear People's MPs, the National Assembly concluded a debate on all points of the 8th Extraordinary Session agenda in 2009. I'll set a voting day later, which I'll inform you of in good time. Thank you for your cooperation. Madam Minister, thank you, and your associate, too. (The Faith of Radeta, from the place: Will there be a session on parliamentary matters? This is not a session for questions and answers and I am not a member of the government. If we work Thursday, then we'll have questions. The government will come. Mrs. Radeta, you know the Rules of Procedure perfectly. Thank you for your cooperation.
