ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33285	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall and there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Dragan Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS wanted to get a response from the government and the competent state authorities -- when will they finally and what will they do about the privatisation of the construction company "The worker"? I guess more or less in public today, everyone knows about how the company got into the restructuring process? Who are the people involved in all this? Why does the state, because of all the knowledge it has, and as far as the privatisation of this company is concerned, remain silent, that is, the competent state authorities are finally not taking what the law refers to?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33287	Gentlemen, please be quiet so we can hear Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33288	What it points them to on the one hand, and on the other hand it binds the law which regulates and regulates this area. What's this about? Workers have been on strike for months, trying to appeal to the government, the Privatisation Agency, all state institutions dealing with corruption. However, on their attempt to force the government and the competent state authorities to react, the government remains deaf. Namely, how did "Trubnik" enter the privatisation process? First, he transferred the combination of his assets to the company DOO “Trubnik Grdnja” in 2005 and 2008, at the auction sale “Trubnik Gradnja” was sold nothing less than “Monteri”. Otherwise, "Monter" is owned by Mr Dragan Kopcalić, a functioner, as far as we know, the Democratic Party. What Mr. Kopcalic committed himself to, that is, his firm "Montera", was that the process of production and investment should be revived and continued. But what today in Serbia is not such a rare case, it is the construction mafia. It seemed to us that it was being talked about and that in one appropriate way it was being cleared in Zrenjanin, but it ended only as an apparent internal political account, which was not obtained by its epilogue in Zrenjanin and even less in Belgrade. It is obvious that this privatisation and auction sale, i.e. the purchase of "Trubels" by Montera, wanted to come into possession of property and land that later, these days I suppose, if the state does not react, would be in the perspective of being manipulated in terms of real estate, construction investments and everything we had in both the Usta and some other locations in Belgrade. Otherwise, 497 workers were found here following the completion of this company's purchase process. There are 147 employees in that company today. What is also important is that workers have tried the state institutions responsible for fighting corruption, is to force them to act. The Anti-Corruption Council found and found, among other things, that the Privatisation Agency, by refusing to exercise control of the privatisation process, enabled the "Monteri", otherwise to the owner of the high-ranking DS, a breach of the purchase contract, a stake in the company "Trubelnik Gradja" DOO, which caused major damage to the company and employees. What are you looking at? It is that the continuity of production in primary activity was reduced by 65.58% and the obligations increased by 50%. In the same period, the company's account has been blocked since 17 March 2009. The collective contract is not closed. The labour rule applies instead of a collective contract. It provides for the scope and content of collective contract employment rights, which is an integral part of the privatisation contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33289	Mr. Dragan Shormaz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33290	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I will begin by saying that yesterday, for example, the foreign minister of Great Britain praised the work of the government of Boris Tadic in Serbia. We often say it is the government of Boris Tadic, not Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Now we've also got confirmation from abroad. Why did I make an introduction like this? Unfortunately, the question cannot be asked by Boris Tadic, as head of government, I must ask Mr Cvetkovic, as the nominal Prime Minister, who does not ask much, but he knows that there was no crime among the ministers of the government for irregularities identified by the State Auditing Institution. Let me see now the prosecutor, elected by the government, who will be on any criminal charges to respond, or, for example, a judge who hasn't even been elected yet. It is not known who will be the judge who will prosecute it if the State Auditing Institution submits criminal charges for the illegal work of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's something Mr. Cvetkovic can do, and what else can he do? The question will eventually be addressed to him. We are scheduled to hold a session of parliament for Friday, December 11th, with the beginning of Serbia's citizens, at 4:00 p.m., where the first item of the agenda is the draft law on the Republic of Serbia's 2010 budget. So Friday at 4:00 p.m. As the course of the session will continue, we will see, but I guess it will be more important to watch what Chelsea – Manchester, etc., and the session of the Budget Assembly at night. Maybe Monday we'll start arguing, only when we've established the agenda. That depends on the leadership of the Assembly. We'll see what happens. Anyway, what's unacceptable for us from the DSS with this agenda? The fact that there is no debate on the 2008 final budget account before the 2010 budget debate, no debate on the 2008 State Audit Institution Report and, more importantly, no debate on budget rebalancing. What would that debate essentially determine? How much money was spent. We could discuss how money will be spent in 2010. I guess it's logical first to see how money was spent in 2009, through the 2009 rebalancing debate, which must follow, as 200m euros were spent more than the budget predicted. Mr. Tadic says the state isn't too in charge. This year alone, billions of euros were charged, 90 billion dinars for the budget, the finance ministry. In this draft budget, we already have a new debt of one billion and a half euros, 130 billion dinars. In this way, the government debt rises to 10 billion euros, which means that not every citizen, not one who works and earns, but every citizen in the country owes 1,350 euros, and the average salary in Serbia has fallen since you were in power from 400 euros to 300 euros, about 5,000 per family. What do you mean without economic development and with such borrowing still to be done? Look at the agenda points for Friday. It's just a budget loan. In addition, we have points 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11, five points with new government credit obligations, which are not in this figure for the 2010 budget. Interestingly, the second point is the draft law supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, where the promised pension increase may be on April 1st, April-ly-2011. A year, and until then, freezing doesn't have any of that. The question is simple - how does the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia think that the state of Serbia and its citizens pay back these debts and when?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33291	Mr Tomislav Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS is asking the question of the legitimacy of the National Assembly and the Government, which is chosen by the majority at a time when it had both legality and legitimacy. It conveys the opinion of Serbian citizens that the composition of the National Assembly does not correspond to the mood among Serbian citizens, that the parliamentary groups do not represent the position of citizens of the Republic of Serbia with their number of MPs and that you have entered excessive borrowings which you are not sure are approved by most Serbian citizens. The question is whether you are doing all this just because you know that in the next election you will lose power and only because you want to leave new authorities with debts that will be difficult to repay, loans and borrowings you take, not to help the economy or village, but to help your survival in power. If I didn't warn you in time, think carefully about who you represent here, what percentage and whose name you represent. I wish you had some winnings and successes, so you could say that these are our successes on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. You have losses and you have debts, and you say it's on behalf of the citizens of Serbia. Neither Serbian citizens like to be defeated, nor like to be over-indebted and hear from the president of Serbia that it is moral to be in charge. So please, 250 represents all of Serbia, think seriously about whether it's time to check who's standing amongst Serbian citizens, whether it's time to check who's going to have the budget in 2010, whether it's going to be the parties that have two or three percent of the standoff in the electoral body, or whether it's going to be the parties who win the censorship and who have the right to form a government. We're not going to force you into any public events, we're not going to take the citizens of Serbia into the streets, but we're going to join them if soon, as I predict, they come out on their own, because it's quite clear and obvious that you humiliated them in the Vozdovac elections, that you tried to buy them for a liter or two liters of oil and that you spent fuel and machinery as if the corridor 10 had been completed. So nothing's helping you anymore. When the people don't want you, then you can spend your entire annual budget on one municipality, you won't get an election in that municipality. So please think carefully, you're all responsible people, you're mature, you all have families, you think about your families. It is much more important to survive Serbia than to survive the government we now have.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33293	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Free Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33294	Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one question for you, Madam President, and then one question for the Prime Minister. Yesterday, we had a Committee on Finance, which worked in full minority, almost all the MPs who were members of the Committee responded. The theme was the State Audit Institution Report. The president of the State Auditing Institution came, presented his summary of the report. All MPs from all political parties, at least declaratively, and I believe and sincerely supported the existence of the State Auditing Institution, the functioning and existence of the report itself. For you, the issue: a session is scheduled on Friday to discuss the 2010 budget. What about what we talked about last week, when I asked you if there was a chance to hold a special session to discuss the State Audit Institute Report, or the 2008 final budget account? You said you took it into your knowledge and we'd do something like that. I'd like to know if we're going to have a chance to discuss all those irregularities that have been identified in this first report by the State Auditing Institution. I don't want to bid on these irregularities, for the simple reason that there is no time limit when some of the irregularities can be removed. Madam President, there are irregularities in that report that cannot be removed. There is no way they can get rid of these irregularities, besides those I mentioned last time, which is the conclusion of a work contract for the already existing systematicized places, with some people, where much more money has been paid than the salaries of employees. The second problem we have is public procurement. The whole public is aware that doctors, or health homes in Belgrade, have been detained for the same reason. So, without a tender, they were getting certain goods, without legal requirements. I fully agree with Serbian President Boris Tadic that there are ministers who are not doing well. Did that match the report of the State Auditing Institution, or was he familiar with it when he said I don't know, but I disagree with the fact that they should be given a second chance. The law in this country must apply to everything equally. That's why I have a question for the prime minister. How can he say that the winning team doesn't change, if you have ministers at the head of the ministries that broke the law, and that violates the law in such a way that we have, I repeat, an example in Belgrade that doctors who ran the health homes broke the laws and ended up behind bars, or in custody, and now the prime minister tells us that he is satisfied with how his ministers work. That is why I think it is necessary that we discuss this report and that the entire public be informed of the views of us MPs who have chosen the DRI, as well as the views of the Government. The problem is that obviously after Friday and that big moment when the DRI report first came out, for the first time in Serbia there were certain threats, I don't mean the very person, but simply the subject that was discussed. So, Mr. Sretenovic, who is the president of the DRI, said there was no great pressure, but in public there was much dust and from those who felt called, and despite the conditionality of the silence that was coming, it was clear that she was not entitled to what was in the report itself. Not wanting to call any of the ministers or ministries directly, I think that's why it's important that we talk, probably there are explanations, rational no.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33295	Part of the question that referred to me is whether this report will be the DRI here at the plenary session. So, the Finance Committee still hasn't informed me what conclusion it has and what suggestion it may have. You know that business opportunities exist, the new Rules of Procedure, or the new Law on the Assembly, we will certainly foresee and hopefully adopt that the reports of all independent bodies are necessarily discussed at the plenary session. For now, business is not so arranged, although there are opportunities to talk through other points and within this topic, but in any case, it is another reason that we need to be serious about the precision of procedures when it comes to reports of independent bodies. Anyway, I hope you agree with me that it's very good that we finally have the DRI report for the first time. Mr Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33296	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, as most citizens who watch this transmission and who have been coming to me for days with letters of support and telegrams know about what I'm going to talk about. I want to thank you President, Secretary General and the services that have allowed a good number of answers to the questions I have asked to come to me. It is not only clear to me, since yesterday I was with a fellow MP from the SPS on one show, it is not clear to me whether other fellow MPs are getting answers to parliamentary questions, let's say ask Markicevic, whether all the other MPs are getting what was sent to me or if I have gained some exclusive right? It's my impression that the other fellow Members of the People don't get these answers that I get. My conclusion is that they would react the same way to what it says in kilos of paper that I get in answer to my questions. I believe that first of all, MPs of the ruling coalition should respond and call some people out of their ranks. I don't know why they're silent, which is why I know a good number of people from the ruling coalition, MPs, and I don't have anything individually bad for them to say, especially when it comes to honesty and honor. When I mentioned honor, respected citizens of Serbia, Madam President, I, like most of us, probably had a difficult time here at certain moments of my life when I was left to defend my honor. I'm very sensitive to that. The Council of the President of the Republic, in controlled media, alluds to my dubious honor. I have no other option to answer him, because those interviews with the same questions are being played in several newspapers, in several blogs, but to say - if he's lying to a goat, he's not lying to a horn. Since the other fellow MPs didn't get these papers that I got, I'm going to stand up to show you the document. The Agency for Business Registers of the Serbian State, dated 30 November 2009, is a copy of the company called "New Communications", on the other hand, says, so I repeat the date is 30 November 2009, owner Nebojsa Krstic, 100%. Why did I say this? I want to comment now on the statement by the president of the DS on Saturday. He calls on unidentified ministers not to do well. So, President DS, Mr. President of the Republic, start with your cabinet. A further document was launched against this gentleman, before the Committee on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interested Procedure. So, President DS, prove you're out of the naked marketing zone, start doing your job and suspend your advisor. Next, I have a question for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. The Prime Minister said a few days ago, before he started to spray his ashes, that the winning team shouldn't change. My question to the Prime Minister - who have you been beating for almost two years? I see only one loser here, and these are the citizens of Serbia who have rebelled against Vozdovac and said they will no longer suffer it. Next question for the health minister. So, in yesterday's one-day note, it says like this: "A robbery at the Duke's Health Office." Which and what equipment was purchased tells the example that Sanitary vehicles were paid as much as 100,000 euros, that people from the Vojvodina Executive Council are connected with it and that they are all from one party, and even here it is said that all documents were delivered to the police minister, Mr Dacic and to the state prosecutor Radovanovic. So my question is, what's going to be done about this? Purchased mammographs and various devices, to avoid tenders went into small purchases so that these appliances were bought in parts. Is this true? Somebody deny it. I'm looking for an answer to this question. So, Madam President, in these 10 seconds I want to tell you - I still have threats, no one has responded. Also heard by the Prime Minister and the Police Minister, no one asked me anything. I'm not telling you what I'm afraid of, I just want the citizens of Serbia to hear what I say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33297	Mr. Marash answered again, but he got out. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Milica Radovic, Milos Aligrudic, Nikola Lazic, Aleksandra Jankovic and Zeljko Tomic. I would like to inform you that for the purpose of the search in the particulars of items 27, 28, 29 and 30 of the agenda, pursuant to Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Bozidar Djelic, i.e. Mr. Ciplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, I invited the sittings to attend Mrs. Branka Totic, director of the Institute of Intellectual Property, Mirela Boskovic and Mirjana Jelic, assistant directors of the Institute of Intellectual Property and Zorica Gulas, head of the Department of Intellectual Property. We move to the 27th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by Vladan Jeremic, Zlata Djerić, Milan Avramović, Bojan Mladenovic, Dusan Marić and Sladjan Mijaljević. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law on details. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 5, but since I have accepted the amendment to Article 9. I thank you. I believe that this amendment could also be adopted, given that the circle of those who inherit some rights to protect the characters of the one who should be on the stamp can't be reduced to children only. I really felt that a syntagm of 'or a legal follower' should be introduced, regardless of what the explanation is, that this circle of those who need to be asked for consent would really increase enormously, and I think that it can also be regulated to one reasonable figure in the first or second degree of inheritance. It certainly does not need to exclude other legal followers and awareness of the circle of those who should only give protection to children.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33299	Thank you, Mrs. Djeric. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Jeremic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33300	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 5. The bill of stamps, more specifically item 8, where the amendment provides for the words "marriage" and the words "family to the third degree of kinship" to be replaced by the words "legal followers". Otherwise, for the sake of the public, let me just say that this is a member that covers an area where everything cannot protect the sign and this member is regulated, so a sign that contains a character or a personal name or who has the right to do so. We have proposed this formulation because we consider it significantly more complete than the one foreseen by the bill. However, the promoter, or the Government, did not accept the amendment for the reason that he believes that it stands here in the reason that by introducing the obligation to obtain a stamp protection agreement from all legal followers, as we have suggested, the circle of persons from whom this consent would have to be sought unwarrantedly extended to an almost unlimited circle of faces and the protection of stamps would be virtually impossible. I believe that, first of all, there is no logic here and that it is indeed an amendment and submitted to this purpose, namely to ensure in some way the possibility and right of all those who can gain such a right, or obligation. I will remind you that it is also important, perhaps to someone at first sight and does not act on this bill, however, given what for the market, for the goods, or, let me say, and the overall economy of a country means regulation in this area, it had to be taken into account, first of all, about some of the provisions covered by this bill. All products issued by the already established market name in the beginning have an advantage over the products of new and market still unknown producers and therefore the signs, i.e. stamps that allow the identification of goods on the market, and that they play an important role in the development of the entire market economy today, i.e. the economy...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33301	The time for the amendment has passed. Would you like some of your group?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33302	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33303	I would just like to inform you that the MPs of the SRS at points 27, 28, 29 and 30 will be represented by MP Branimir Djokic. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, regardless of what this amendment is adopted, I really thank you, this amendment represents one lecturing amendment in the law, and so far I have had a lot of such amendments that have been adopted, but I would like to draw attention to one presence of the devasting language and the meaning of certain concepts in the adoption of a law that is present, so I draw attention to all those who deal with the writing of the law to take care of the exact content of the concepts that are incorporated into the law, because they are being "respected", in relation to the concept that I have proposed and who have been accepted "get insight", differ significantly in their content and significantly influence that I am the law that needs to be concrete, clear, precise, slightly, when this concept is introduced, seems unsercessssive. Please continue to pay attention to the texts of the bill coming before the MPs, to be very precise, very clear, linguistically correct, and I am thus representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33305	National MP Milan Avramovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the mark is the right to protect the sign used in transport for the distinction of goods, i.e. the service of one natural or legal person from the same or similar goods, i.e. the service of another natural or legal person. The brand can protect a character that can be displayed graphically, i.e. a character consisting of words, slogans, letters, numbers, images, drawings, color layouts, or a combination of all of the above characters. A sign which does not need and cannot be protected by a stamp is a sign that is contrary to moral or public order, a sign which, by its appearance, is not suitable for the distinction of goods and services in transport, a sign which exclusively represents forms of a particular nature of goods, a sign that is common to mark a particular type of goods, i.e. services, a sign which, by its appearance or content, can create a confusion in the transport of origin, type of quality or other characteristics of goods, or services. A sign containing official signs or codes for quality control or guarantee, or supporting them, which is identical to the protected sign of another person for the same or similar goods or services, a sign similar to that protected in Serbia and which is undoubtedly known to consumers, i.e. users of services in Serbia, a sign that damages copyright or industrial property rights, a sign that contains a state or other public coat of arms, a flag or symbol, a name or a keybinding for the name of a country or an international organisation, as well as an expression thereof. The trade mark holder shall have the exclusive right to use the mark-protected mark to mark the goods, i.e. the service to which that mark applies and to prohibit other persons from using the same or similar sign unauthorizedly to mark the same or similar goods, or services, if similarity is such that it may cause confusion in traffic. I would also say that the designer's said stamp is both a logo and a logo and a symbol, but also a brand. What we should all insist on is to protect our brands, primarily our products, by which we can and should be recognizable not only in Serbia, but also in Europe and the world, such as shadow cheese, such as ajvar, such as brandy, not just plums, but others, then racans. These are products that we need to pay attention to in the coming period, which must have their brand, their brand, which, I repeat again, Serbia must be recognizable everywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33307	You spoke for a minute and some of the times of the parliamentary group and the rest within the framework of the amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33308	Ladies and gentlemen, we have suggested that Article 20 be deleted because we believe that it is a unnecessary, excessive provision, because this is a matter which it is already regulated by the previous article. 18th and 19th. Article 18 states: "A legal or natural person who has submitted an orderly application of the stamp with a fact in a Member State of the Paris Union or of the World Trade Organisation will be recognised in the Republic of Serbia the right of the championship from the date of submission of that application if in the Republic of Serbia for the same sign and for the same goods or services, within six months. Paragraph 3 of the same article states: "The legal and natural person referred to in Article 1 shall be obliged to submit a certified copy of the application from another country to the competent authority within three months of the date of the application in the Republic of Serbia." Article 19(1) specifies: ''The applicant who, within three months prior to the application, used a certain sign to mark goods or services at an international exhibition or fair in the Republic of Serbia... '" etc. '"... may request in the application the recognition of the right of the championship from the day of the first use of that mark. '"Why did I quote and read this? So I'd show that there's nothing unclear here. So, it doesn't say anywhere here that these deadlines could be extended, nor can it be suggested from the text. So it is clear that the registration of the stamp from another country to Serbia is six months, an additional period of three months to add that a certified copy of the application and the right of the applicant to seek the right of the championship should the mark have been applied three months earlier. There are very clear matters, there is nothing unclear and there is no reason for Article 20 to particularly decidently emphasise that the deadlines of these previous members are not being extended.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33309	Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33310	I have submitted an amendment to delete the word “important” in Article 21(1). The Serbian Radical Party considers the amendment to be a more properly defined question of changing the appearance of the sign, as it is given here in the explanation, to stress -- that it will not allow subsequent change of character. What does this mean? This means it can be interpreted one way or the other. We allow the possibility that some people in this corrupt country and corrupt society, if they exhaust the possibility of a clear legal and clear business, can reach out to something else, by some other means, which is to slightly alter some of the signs that represent them, stamps, etc. It's already leading to some fake representation. Now the question is – how important is it, how important can someone change it? Absolutely, the word – it is important to throw out and as Article 21, I quote – the application cannot subsequently change the appearance of the sign. When the word is thrown out – important, then everything comes to its place, the application cannot later change the appearance of the sign, etc. Why do we give an opportunity to make a conscious or unconscious abuse, and then we will still resolve and explain these questions? Without this word - there would be no such thing as writing, no such explanation. So when you translate some laws that come to you from the far west, then you try, and I join other colleagues, to find some real words in Serbian that very clearly and termnologically explain what and how to explain, which action, what procedure. This is what it looks like for those appliances there in the West – turn the other end of the cable into a power source. We are not in Serbia so illiterate or retarded that we cannot understand things. So when you translate the laws, find something clearer and clearer and don’t give us the opportunity to explain whether or not it will be. It just can't be, and it's over. That's why the law exists to clearly specify a particular area, and it can't be or can't be.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33311	The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, we've already said a lot about the stamps, although this is a law that has not been passed in Serbia for a long time, and this one that is currently being used has not been quite accurate, but I'm afraid that these solutions we have, and it is an important area, because this area allows many abuses precisely in those essential elements that need to be protected. So, I asked the amendment that, as with the previous colleague, this word - a significant change is made, because when you say in Article 21's 1st position - the application cannot subsequently change the appearance of the sign or supplement the list of goods, or services, it is important that the law relativises this member and thus, because we know the importance of the stamps and why this law is even passed, and then if this first amendment was adopted, I asked that Article 2 be deleted. In the sense of Article 1, a significant change of character shall be considered to be any change which alters the disciplinary character of this sign. So, something either has a stamp or that stamp doesn't have, regardless of what's stated in the explanation, I don't think these generic changes should actually affect the use of the stamp. Remember only the use of stamps and the importance of the use of stamps in precious metals and all that is made of them without talking about the rest. I believe that this word – a significant, significant violation of this article and the law itself, relatively and possibly of its own use.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33313	The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33314	Just so the information works, we say the amendment is accepted, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33315	You have the right to speak. Since the Legislative Committee has not spoken, I must open the debate. The government has accepted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33316	This amendment to Article 27(1) refers to this section of the examination of the conditions for the recognition of the trade mark and the amendment provides that the words – the time limit set by the competent authority, shall be replaced by the words – of 30 days, as we considered it necessary to specify the time limit for the application. If it finds that the application does not meet the conditions for the recognition of the stamp, the competent authority will, in writing, inform applicants of the reasons for which the stamp cannot be recognised and will invite it to be made within the time limit, this is now what has been accepted, from 30 days’ notice of those reasons. This amendment, as well as the previous and subsequent ones that I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, you can see that there were not many amendments, but they were indeed submitted with the goal of essentially making certain certain things in this termological sense. So, one more precise formulation of everything. I can only express my satisfaction that this amendment has been accepted, and then I will do more about the next one that has also been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33317	National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33318	In Article 41, paragraph 1), we asked to be deleted because the wording provided for by the law holder creates a space for abuses, and the amendment is unequivocally defined by the right of the holder of the stamps, i.e. as it stands here in a statement by the Government – the holder of the mark may oppose the use of the name and address of the other person in commercial traffic if the name and address of that person are used unwittingly and contrary to good business practices, thus eliminating any possibility of abuse. It is possible to eliminate any possibility of abuse, but in what sense? That all those people who participate in the business process must turn into private police officers and that they are doing the work of some other institution and that they are monitoring whether someone has deliberately or accidentally misused their property or address and so on. So, a company, a company, can do that, but if you happen to find that someone has abused, not that some other resources are involved, that they constantly monitor their products and other similar organisations, companies, businesses, factories, but I don't know who, who's in this business, is they going to abuse or not abuse its property, or address, etc.? It just has to be more specific. There is an institution that should monitor it, not a man who puts a declaration on his product, must follow himself and himself alike, whether someone will abuse him or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33319	National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33320	Article 57. The draft law is adopted in the area of the regulation of the termination of the right to use the stamp and amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, provided that Article 57 should be amended, to accept that formulation to stop the trade mark from being valid after the payment of the prescribed fee. There is a period of 10 years here, but we felt that this was a more complete and substantial explanation, i.e. a formulation, than this is how the Proposer predicted, because it is automatically known which conditions are prescribed, until when you can use that right or enjoy the right to stamp. We felt that this was much better, that, by the very act of stopping paying the rules on fees, the mark would cease to apply. A moment ago when I mentioned that it is also an important area covered by the trade mark law, because the signs that enable the identification of goods on the market also play an important role and when it comes to the labelling of goods, so that consumers can choose the product that corresponds to their wishes and needs, which associate it with a specific producer, then and in the context of that intellectual property, i.e. in the narrow context of industrial property rights, are currently being spoken and regulated by this area of trade marks or trade marks. Signs that differ from each other, which is one of the assumptions of the trademark registration, are just establishing one relationship between business operators, manufacturers, traders and consumers. The brand is an absolutely strong and suitable instrument and advertising and propaganda, and therefore the processing of the entire market, so it should not be surprising that the modern market economy invests a lot in building a market identity or brands, and the brand is an integral part of such a project. Today, the first one can talk about the market value of brands created by a particular producer, because of the market situation and the previous positive, which negative experiences, can rightly serve as an advantage or may in the beginning make it difficult for them to perform on the market largely independently and is indeed the real quality of the product. Evidence of this is also a worldwide widespread phenomenon of production and trade precisely by these counterfeit products, or, using that term, fakes or forgeries, and lately it is believed that this type of injury, I am now talking about comprehensive intellectual property, has become one of the basic jobs of a number of organisations, i.e. a group of these organised crime, since opportunities for profit and potential penalties are in one large disproportionate way, unlike some other classical crimes, such as drug trafficking, weapons, etc. In this respect, this law is very important because the stamps are exclusively a right recognised as a sign that serves to distinguish the products and services of one economic operator from the others in the entire economic system. This means that the name, logo, emblem, label or other different features of a product can be protected by a stamp just under certain conditions. One of these conditions is this area, which concerns the very termination of the right to enjoy stamps. Hence, this amendment was also intended, in the event that one of the legally prescribed items is not respected, which is, in this case, the termination of payment of the prescribed fee, to automatically lose the right to use the stamp.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33321	It was used two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33322	I just got out when you wanted to give me the right to a replica, so if you let me use it right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33323	Mr. Marash, you have no right to a replica, but you can advertise the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33324	Article 27. We now have a Finance Committee at 11.00. Yesterday, due to the lack of quorum, i.e. the departure of members of the Committee, above all, from the ruling majority, we were unable to reach a conclusion or recommendation for the Assembly or you to deliver, so that the session could be scheduled. Of course we'll do everything now to collect the signatures, so the session can be scheduled before the budget is held. Second of all, I wanted to tell you that as LDP, we asked the state auditor, we will do it again today, to get into political parties, to control how the budget is spent, that Serbian citizens know that the parties are spending money from the state. We think it's very important to see if we're all the same, whether there are any of us who abuse the law, as in certain cases the ministry has abused itself. I'm undermining it one more time. Now we've got an 11 o'clock committee. If there is a quorum, we hope to adopt recommendations that we will deliver to you, and we will also require that the DRI, now that one part of the ministries has ended, enters political parties and controls how budget funds are spent in the political parties themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33325	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 28th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Protection of TOPOGRAPHY OF INTEGRAPHIAN CARS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Nikola Savic, Goran Mihajlović, Milan M. Nikolic, Mileta Poscurica, Jelena Budimirović, Zoran Babić, Zoran Antic, Saša Maksimović, Bozidar Delić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Mićo Rogović, Dragan Čolić and Vladan Batić. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before moving to the search in detail, I remind you that the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Zoran Babić, Otto Kišmarton, Zoran Antić, Mićo Rogović and Vučeta Toskovic, who jointly submitted to Article 5, Mileta Poscurica Oto Kišmarton, Saša Maksimović, Stefan Zankov and Ljiljana Miladinović, who are together on Article 5. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Nikola Savic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, about ten days ago, we held a debate about four united draft laws that treated similar issues in a certain way, which was the protection of copyright and related rights, both an individual and a legal person. As you remember, at that time we presented the basic views of the SRS parliamentary group, and we pointed out that today is a very sensitive problem which is unfortunately still chaotic with us and insufficiently legally arranged. In order not to repeat everything that we have already said in the context of the principled search, we will today try to make use of these eight amendments, which we have submitted to our distinguished colleagues Nikola Savic, Milan Nikolic and I, to explain these amendments and to try to correct the bill. The first amendment I submitted refers to Article 2(2) and in that position, the promoter defined an integrated circuit as a finished product or an inter-product performing a function. I suggested erasing this term as "inter-product", because it is a technically unknown term. It is common to say half of the product instead of the product, so this point 2 in the new version would read: the integrated circuit within the meaning of this law is a finished product or semi-produced product in which a certain work function is performed. So we would point out that the integral circuit can also suffer some upgrades, and that is why it is a semi-product, and also in this attitude we suggest that words are added -- that there are both active and passive elements in it, for the simple reason, which is that we have active elements, such as transistors, diodes and others that are from the semiconductors, and that nowadays is the dominant material of an integrated car, and that does not mean that in some near future the semiconductor won't be replaced by some new materials, so to specifically emphasize this, we have suggested that this word - the half-conductor should enter this position.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33327	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mileta Poscurica, Jelena Budimirovic, Zoran Babic, Zoran Antic and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33328	Article 5(2) refers to the period of time covered by the protection of the topography of integrated cars and the legislator has set a period of 15 years. But we believe that for 15 years it is too long a period, especially as it is a specific area, where fast current construction solutions become obsolete and new solutions and new topography occur. In addition to this, the fact that an integrated circuit appeared in 1964, and already in 1971 we had a microprocessor, and in that period there were perhaps two or three technological revolutions in terms of integration and an increase in the number of components, so it is quite understandable that instead of 15 years, that deadline would be 10 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33329	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Nikolic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33330	Dear People's MPs, honourable citizens, we have before us a law on the protection of topography of integrated cars. I have submitted an amendment to Article 8(1) which should change. First, I would like to remind you that Article 8 - Legal protection of topography is carried out in an administrative procedure conducted by the authority of the state administration responsible for intellectual property affairs. My amendment refers to the following, i.e. to specify more precisely - The legal protection of topography is carried out in an administrative procedure conducted by the Institute of Intellectual Property, as the authority of the state administration responsible for intellectual property affairs. By passing a law on the protection of topography of integrated cars, Serbia intends to harmonize legislation with international standards in this area prescribed by the World Trade Organisation and the EU. For all industrial property rights, it is common for them to be obtained in a legally established procedure, on the basis of the decision of the competent authority. In the Republic of Serbia, the competent authority is the Institute of Intellectual Property, and this body is also responsible for protecting topography of industrial cars. So, in my opinion, it is necessary to point out exactly that in the administrative process protection works for the Institute of Intellectual Property. The government didn't accept the amendment, but I think there was a reason to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33331	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mileta Poscurica, Jelena Budimirovic, Sasa Maksimovic and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorgvanka Tabaković, Mileta Poscurica, Mico Rogovic, Dragan Colic and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 20 and Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33332	This is where I submitted the amendment to this article and to the title, because the title includes a period of time of law. As is known, the term of duration can be defined for material things, material components, and not for laws, because the laws begin to apply and cease to apply for a certain period, and do not start to last and stop to last, so it is perfectly understandable that in the title instead of "termination period" stands "the period of validity" of the law. Also, in Article 20, I have proposed one amendment, so this member in the new version would read - the period of validity of the right to topography begins to run from the date of submission that fulfils Article 13(3) of this Act or from the day of the first commercial use of topography, depending on which of the conditions mentioned first met. Why have we submitted this amendment? Simply, it is possible that some topography first starts to apply and only to protect itself by law, and it is possible that the author first submits a request for protection of patents, so that commercial application begins. I therefore suggested that this sentence be inserted into this article at the end - depending on which of the conditions mentioned first met.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33333	The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Savic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. Proposal for a law on the protection of topography of integrated cars. I have submitted this amendment first of all for the reason I believe that the word "awareness" should not stand in the law. In fact, we all know that security is one immeasurable category and that such an unsustainable category must not depend on whether something is solved in one way or another. On the other hand, what represents security for one another can represent something quite different, unconsciousness and vice versa. For this reason, I appeal to this government to accept this amendment, because this solution provided for in this amendment leaves enormous opportunities for abuse, and this is not the first case that you are making laws where some standards are not defined enough and where you may be deliberately leaving the possibility of certain abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33335	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33336	Article 29. The proposal for a law to protect the topography of integrated circuits refers to a claim to challenge the right to protection. So if the author thinks there's been a violation of his rights, he can press charges. I have submitted an amendment here to amend Article 29 paragraphs 2 and 3, so Article 2 would read - the complaint under Article 1 of this Article may be filed within the period of validity of the protection of topography defined in Article 20 of this Act. Since I have already explained Article 20, it means that it cannot stand for the period of the law, but rather for the period of validity of the law, the reasoning is exactly the same as for the previous member, while in the same Article, Article 3 of the new version would read - if the court's decision adopted an appeal request under Article 1, the competent authority will, at the time of receipt of the ruling or at the request of the prosecutor, enlist the prosecutor in the relevant register as the applicant of the application, i.e. the holder of the right to the contested topography. In the version given by the promoter stands - on topography. I suggest that this word be inserted "disputed" because this article normally refers to disputed topography, so in order to particularly point out, it is necessary to stand this word "disputed".
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33337	Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MP Milan M. Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Nikolic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33338	Dear People's MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 31, specifically to the first position. I will read the first position that reads - Sublegal rules for the enforcement of this law will be passed within four months of the date of entry into force of this law. My correction of this attitude applies to the following, and it would read – sublegal rules for the implementation of this law will be passed within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law. What does that mean? In paragraph 1, the word “execution” is replaced by the word “implementation” because the laws are not implemented but implemented and implemented in practice. A four-month deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts that will follow this law and is too long because it is a law with a potentially small number of members, a total of 33. Therefore, it is sufficient for 90 days. Since the law on the protection of topography of integrated cars needs to be brought into line primarily with more terminology and less content with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the new law on ministries, i.e. it is entirely enough for this job to be done in 90 days, because this is the usual procedure for the adoption of each law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33339	National MP Vladan Batic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. We have conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, and the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We move to the 29th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Vladan Jeremic, Milan Avramović, Bojan Mladenovic, Dusan Marić, Sladjan Mijaljević, Vučeta Tošković, Dragan Čolić, Jelena Budimirović, Zoran Antić, Zoran Babić, Mileta Pokurica and Saša Maksimović. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Vladan Jeremic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33340	This is, therefore, when it comes to industrial design another field of intellectual activity that is worth absolute protection. Industrial design or protection of this external appearance of a product is very important, because in this era of mass industrial production the quality of the product is often not enough, but it is clear that this aesthetic quality is also sought. This very quality is the fruit of some intellectual creation, as well as of other forms of intellectual property and, of course, necessary and adequate protection. When it comes to industrial design, it is clear, therefore, that it is applied to a large number of industrial products and that it is applied and protected in hand-made objects. This amendment, which has already been submitted to the first member, i.e. the position of the 3rd member, was in fact a wish to classify the category of legal person as the user of the product through the law. What makes this important, in our opinion, is why are producers even protecting industrial design, and what are the consequences of this? So I have already said that the protection of industrial design is actually a single market tool, which can also protect its own investment in development and production. If, then, once properly protected, industrial design has become practically the property of an author or a particular business entity and can significantly affect the position of the entity on the market, as well as its market value. As with other forms of intellectual property, such as patents and copyright, this will be a matter of later words, industrial design represents one large part of the value of the new known names of the world industry, and in particular it may be an area that particularly covers so-called. High fashion and luxury. Why is it important to carry out and legally shape that protection of industrial design? First of all, because the very awareness of the importance and role of industrial design has practically accelerated into all these aspects of industry and trade, and the value of successful design, if we now add to this adequate legal protection of industrial design, it actually drives many market entities to a continuous fight, except for quality standards, low prices, actually satisfactory what is the most important aspect, primarily the taste of consumers or perhaps even run certain new design directions. In order to actually protect something as industrial design as well as other intellectual property rights, it is clear that certain assumptions are also sought, and these are primarily the fact that it is objectively a new product on the market and that this product must have an individual character. As I prepare for this, I have come up with some data concerning, above all, some EU countries, in particular, one of the research done, and it concerns the reasons they have, let me say in this case, economic entities for the protection of design. First of all, it's about 70%, just to prevent copying. Then 23.4% of the company's policy, 20.3% of the competitive advantage, 10.1% is the question of the company's prestige, 6.5% to distract people from the very idea of copying and the last, so the smallest item, is 5.8%, these are some other reasons. So this and the very fact that this should practically be repainted and when it comes to Serbia says best how much this area needs to be protected, above all in terms of preventing and making copies of products, because industrial design is one of these business goods that can increase both the commercial value of the company and its products. The more successful the work has been done, it is clear that this will allow more value for businesses, and hence some positive shifts when it comes to the overall economic environment in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33341	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. There's a word from Miss Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33342	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue what Mr. Mladenovic said, by noting the example of the Russian Federation and their need to define the concept of protection of industrial design from 15 years ago. We are shown here in the explanation that this is because it is codification with EU laws. Here Russia is not or will ever be in the EU, and we know, who love that brotherly, friendly, and above all, country that wants us well at all times, that we each have individualaffinities for certain Russian products, as they have towards ours. Here, given what Mr. Mladenovic said, on the need for companies in EU countries to do it in 70% for copying, the question arises how will we create free market competition to ensure that the right based on the protection of legal industrial property is achieved here. You know, it's easy for them, you know, because they primarily hold high-tech technology to produce what people like. Here, I'll show you on one case. Let's say, timer, if you have it on your hand or you don't have it, whether you like to wear it or not, Mr. Minister, or bracelets or any clothing or detail, the point is that it's either a staging or any little change to what is the design of that product, to protect itself legally. Now it is really asking whether, since this is a basic condition, to explain to the citizens of Serbia even though you said it in the first article of the law – industrial design does not refer to the function of an object, whether the timer is good or not, but whether it is attractive to the appearance. Although manufacturers take care of it, for example, if it is one chair, everyone will first look at what it looks like, but after that they will consider, every potential buyer, whether its function is good and whether it is worth giving that money in that sense. Therefore, we in Serbia, in particular, could define this, branded products from this ethngroup, if you start from the way they are designed in the most acceptable way, which have a national Serbian mark, individual products. We have really many producers in this industrial and crafts area, which are emerging and trying to be acceptable to the wide market. Many think that the trumpet assembly in Guca is just a trumpet and listening to music, etc. There you have one whole exhibition space and it is really a real event every year, fully newly designed Serbian products, which they want to show primarily to domestic potential customers, but why not export them, although they are small series on the EU market? Then we return to the many questions that Mr. Master Dejan Mirović has raised above all, which in his book, which in the performances in the Assembly, as well as all of us -- what is acceptable both in a functional sense and in terms of design, if it is not supported by the state to protect this product, we will protect it by this law, to produce, if there are no development projects, if there is no credit for these craftsmen and for these companies. Because we can't rely just on what's a world-rent brand. We have to protect our brands, and I am confident, traveling through Serbia first of all, here, and in my town of Kragujevac, and finally and in Topoli, in Arangelovac, there are completely authentic design companies that do not have the support and support of the state to produce much more products and to sell these products, which are far more quality than anything that Miskovic, Beko and the other monopolies import here and sell us through the accounting value, above all the euro, which is abnormal and the people are forced to buy. Because we have potential, we have the opportunity to produce it and admire it as an original Serbian product. Thank you. This is what I'm gonna end up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33343	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33344	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that the text considers that industrial design has become available to the public if it is published and exhibited, used in the transport of goods and services or otherwise revealed before the date of submission. This term "discovered" to replace the word "represented." I simply think that the word "discovered" in this context is a little obnoxious and inappropriate. Industrial design cannot be detected. A new ore site can be discovered, and industrial design can be designed, presented and used. I think this term is "presented" closer to these terms that the government is already using "published" and "exposed". In an explanation for which the amendment refuses, the government says - the amendment is not accepted because the term "represented" means a rope meaning from the term "discovered". That's not true. Second, the term "discovered" in Article 7. The bill means disclosure to the public in any way the secrecy enjoyed by industrial design. I accept this term that the government uses "declaration", because it's more appropriate than the term "discovered". So if the government won't accept this amendment and this term because it comes from the SRS parliamentary group, I suggest it accepts its term "declaration". Finally, the government says - correction of the amendment is not accepted for reasons that do not have an effect on the content of the table. For the sake of the public, I'd like to say that the amendment to the amendment is being reviewed in the next one. At the time of the amendment, in the title, instead of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Republika Srpska was written. Of course, we noticed that technical error. We have corrected this amendment, however, the government refuses the amendment's titled Republic of Serbia, and this turns out to remain Republika Srpska in the title of the amendment. It says that the government, the ruling majority, is intruding from amendments to the SRS and is most likely not reading them.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33345	The People's MP Sladjan Myaleva, who wants a word, submitted to the 9th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33346	I have submitted an amendment to Article 9(4) where "family to the third degree of kinship" is replaced by the words "legal followers". We believe that our formulation is more complete because, as the government has stated here, those who have written an explanation, that the third degree of kinship can protect some famous historical figure or some scientist who is not alive. So, they can't just protect her, because if someone has reached that level in some institution through some particular profession, there's a mutual promotion of that institution and, let's say, the scientist, we come to the fact that this institution has the right to some kind of protection, because who, for example, will protect or give permission to use the character and works of Nikola Tesla. We come to a situation that after some time, when relatives also leave this world, there is also that everyone can use the character and the work of a person who has been accomplished, the historical personality, some scientists, and let's say some institutions, which last 100, 200, 300, 400 years, have no right to protect themselves and to protect that worker and associate who worked in that institution, and yet some others will be able to use it, perhaps even abuse it. Our formulation is "legal followers." We suggest you adopt this intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33347	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33348	Thank you. Article 10(2) Proposal for a law on legal protection of industrial design. The amendment, which the SRS parliamentary group submitted, proposed to change and to say that foreign natural and legal persons enjoy the rights arising from international contracts, because we felt that international contracts provided for the rights of foreigners so that there was no need to balance them with domestic authors. However, the amendment has not been accepted, on the grounds that it is a provision of Article 10. The draft law governing formal and material reciprocity between national private law and that the provision is contained in the laws of all Member States of the Paris Convention. What was the intention? First of all, if we have in mind that the decision on how and where to protect industrial design can have an exceptional impact on other aspects of design use, and that it is essential that all issues on design protection are covered by a global business strategy, i.e. a type of protection, price, efficiency of protection, issues of ownership of design can be practically significant when deciding whether to develop design within a company, whether to engage someone on the outside, about planning time to use new design in advertising, advertising or public representation in exhibitions, which foreign markets should be chosen, whether, when and in which way, to license or to transfer the rights for that commercial exploitation of design to other businesses, in exchange for cash compensation. One of these reasons, i.e. the best example, is on the famous company "Durasel", which until 1980, producing famous alkaline batteries, was practically a single-product company to hire consultant designers in 1981, with the task of producing a pocket lamp, i.e. a lamp, which was soon then placed on the market in 1982, and two years later, it was this design that won the Grand Britain Design Award. The following year, "Durasel" presented several variations of these different design lamps, for different markets, and a pocket lamp with modern colors was created for younger consumers. All these innovative functional features are protected by patent, and the design is protected in all major countries where this company currently operates. Otherwise, in order to make this approach easier, industrial design is classified, or grouped according to classes. The application for registration may require applicants to indicate the product class for which they intend to use design. What's important is that many countries are currently using a classification from the so-called so-called. a local agreement establishing international classifications for industrial design. Since this is already a matter of some importance regarding these performances, i.e. orientation to the market, it is very important that industrial design is protected abroad, because if a company or any business entity intends to export products of original design, or intends to grant a licence for production, sale or export of such products to other operators abroad, of course there must be a lot of attention to protecting its designs in those countries, in order for the company to have certain privileges, i.e. protection abroad, as it does on the domestic market. This proposal for a law on the protection of industrial design is practically, so to speak, territorially, i.e. the protection of industrial design is limited to a country or region in which design is registered. If there is such a desire to protect industrial design in export markets, it must be taken into account first and foremost that an appropriate application for protection is submitted in all those countries where business entities intend to export. It is very important to respect the deadlines provided for in those international contracts. There are three ways to protect industrial design abroad, first of all, that national, regional and international route. The problems may also be the cost of protection, because for example, the cost of protection for, say, five designs in 11 countries, using exactly the international route I mentioned, which is offered by the so-called so-called. The Hague system is approximately 900 Swiss francs, and given the one macroeconomic instability in which we are located and the economy in Serbia exists, it is clear that this can pose a potential problem for this type of protection of our products.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33349	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vuceta Toskovic, Dragan Colic, Jelena Budimirovic, Zoran Antić, Zoran Babic, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33350	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 on behalf of the SRS in which I ask that the word "25 years from the day of the application on condition that" be replaced by "until". It is simply logical to make this amendment because the right to acquire industrial design is obtained by enrolling this member in the register of industrial design and taking 25 years. I suggested that the words "25 years old" be replaced by the word "until" for a simple reason, which, as long as the proper fees for maintaining rights are paid, this right should be in force. The moment he stops paying the prescribed fees for that right, that right needs to stop on its own. It doesn't matter to limit someone to 25 years of age to an obligation to exercise their rights if they don't want to. Maybe the industrial design's getting old by then. Maybe it wants some change. He will have an obligation to pay a fee for the next 25 years. There's no obligation like this. The moment he stops paying off his obligation to comply with Article 11, he stops using his rights, more specifically, to exercise his right to industrial design. That is why the argument is a little illogical, given by the Government, which is – that the exercise of the right to industrial design is limited to 25 years, provided that they are paid. What if they don't pay? What if someone doesn't want to pay for it? Then there's some other kind of sanctions. Like this, he didn't pay, he doesn't have the right to industrial design. As long as he pays, that right will benefit. That's why this argument is small and illogical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33351	National MP Bojan Mladenovic submitted to the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Miss Natasa Jovanovic wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33352	This is about showing industrial design and you know very well, Madam President, as well as the minister and all MPs in the hall, that the design of something that attracts you and all of us, first of all, attention, and then we decide on the depth of the wallet and on the functionality of that product, whether we buy it or not. Mr. Bojan Mladenovic, I apologize to my colleague, Jeremic, by mistake earlier I told my colleague Mladenovic, instead of Jeremic, he wanted to fix this Article of the 21st Law and therefore submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS, because you said in that first position – the display contains only the subject of protection and must not contain any other subject, belonging, face or animal. He simply said – the display contains only a subject of protection. What you've put on is completely unnecessary and I've looked at the reasoning of this member. Then let me get back to this, which was mentioned by my colleague Avramovic, when it comes to the deadline, that is, the length of product protection for 25 years. You know, Mr. Minister, when we mention these signs, you especially gave this member the explanation that this first applies to the textile industry. A famous tennis player, a certain Rene Lacosta, didn't even think about it during his life, when he had his hand or someone was doing it, tied up those crocodiles that were huge dimensions, that it would become a protective brand posthumously, or so, that a brand that had lasted for almost 80 years would be made of it. With us in Serbia, if someone wanted to and wanted to, here's to take the textile industry, for example, we had such products that were originally industrially designed, so that they were recognizable on our market, and the factories were destroyed. The evidence is "Smack" from Zrenjanin. Once, the promoter of some of these products was also a colleague of ours. Anyway, we can talk about the car industry. If the period of protection is 25 years, which was mentioned earlier by colleague Avramovic, then we can conclude with regret that the protection of industrial design has expired for all products of Zastava car. At the end of the 1980s, it was unimaginable, you know, in that expansion of the production of "South", so that it went 45 to "coral" and those last models that were destroyed, because the factory was completely removed. There is no longer that line for production, and there is no more of this new designed Fiat car, which is supposed to be produced, class "b" in the amount of 200-300,000 units per year, because they have not paid one single euro. There's no annex contract. Then you see the fate of Serbian products. For this reason, and I have also talked about it under the previous amendment, it is very necessary that, with such legislation, the state takes care of those with quality products, well-designed, and who are indeed products that are recognizable, not only for our own, but also for the world market, which can be exported and that these companies do well.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33353	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33354	In Article 23 paragraph 8, after the word ‘appeal’, the words ‘in 15 days’ shall be added. It is necessary to specify the time limit within which an appeal may be lodged, in the event of a rejection of the application. Of course, you replied in Article 12(2). The draft law provides for and writes that it is within 15 days. However, we have been taught by the experience of your rule over the past nine years that we have to think about every score, let alone some days or whether there are deadlines or no deadlines. We find it absolutely nothing difficult and scary to add four words and four short words after the word "appeal". For the position to be read, a complaint may be made against the conclusion of Article 7 within 15 days. It doesn't hurt, and it clearly defines a certain situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33355	The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vuceta Toskovic, Dragan Colic, Jelena Budimirovic, Zoran Antić, Zoran Babic, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33356	Our amendment provides for Article 27 to be changed and it is said that the application cannot subsequently change the display of industrial design. We felt that the formulation provided for by the legislator also opened one space for potential abuses, and that this amendment, in practice, was unequivocally defined. I have to be honest, I was secretly hoping that this amendment would actually be accepted. However, the explanation that has arrived reads: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 27 is the meaning of Article 27. Proposal for a law not to allow the delivery of a new display of a subject of protection which differs significantly from the original display. The presentation of the sea, according to its content and scope, corresponds to the description of the design, since the description and presentation of industrial design determines the individual character of industrial design, which is the basic condition for the recognition of this right and determines the extent of the rights acquired on the basis of protected industrial design. The description of industrial design must be based on the table and contains the specified characteristics of industrial design, for which protection is sought and which determines the novelty, individual character and extent of protection of industrial design. In this context, only those changes that change the characteristics of industrial design for which protection is sought are considered to be important. A significant change is not considered to change the display in a work that does not affect those characteristics of industrial design for which protection is sought. It is most often about changes in the quality of the presentation of industrial design." You see how broad the argument is, and how easy it was to accept the amendment that we have submitted, and in this way it is ensured, for that purpose, that the amendment has been submitted, so that there are no abuses later. Realising any right of intellectual property is a rather complex issue, for which it is usually advisable and necessary to seek certain professional assistance, especially in this field of intellectual property rights. It is important to bear in mind that the greatest responsibility for detecting and taking action against imitation or other violations of industrial design rights should be borne by its owner. In other words, you are practically responsible for monitoring the use of design on the market, detecting each copycat, and making a decision whether, when and how action will be taken against them. A representative in the field of intellectual property rights should be an expert person who will inform about the possibilities to initiate legal proceedings against offenders in this potential dispute and advise on how to resolve this. When it comes to some international experience, back in 2001, ten of the largest users of the Hague composition for the international registration of industrial design, according to the number of applications, were "Svoch Group", "Interior", "Soni", "Hermes", "Danner", "Krysler", "Nokia", "Bos", "Mulin", "Filips", "Electronic" and "Solomon". In that year, the Svoch Group, as the biggest user, deposited 103 applications for the registration of design, using the provisions of this aforementioned Hague contract. The special appearance of their watches is seen as a crucial feature that affects consumers to choose their product. In view of this, the factory, such as Svoc, invests large amounts of money and professional forces in the development of top design, takes care to acquire exclusive rights to exploit its designs through and registration in other countries. This Member of the bill is precisely in terms of protecting, i.e. preventing subsequent changes and, therefore, opening up space for potential abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33357	The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vuceta Toskovic, Dragan Colic, Jelena Budimirovic, Zoran Antić, Zoran Babic, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear People's MPs, as you know, I called for the third special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 to take an oath from the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the Republic Public Prosecutor, in accordance with the law. For this reason, I am fixing a break in the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, and I will inform you of the continuation of this session after the end of the Special Session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33358	We continue to work in the afternoon search in particular of the Bill on Legal Protection of Industrial Design. Before we move on to the review of the amendment to Article 43, I remind the MPs that all MPs have the full time available for the president or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, as well as all MP groups that have the time to search in particular for the parliamentary group, except for the SRS, which is available for another 45 minutes and 30 seconds. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP Milan Avramović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33359	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've asked in this amendment for article 43 to be deleted. It is excluded from the restriction of rights where the rightholder for industrial design cannot ban a third party from a particular action. These actions mainly relate to the activities performed for non-commercial and experimental purposes or to multiplication for the purpose of teaching or bidding, provided that such actions are in accordance with the practice of loyal competition. There is no practice of loyal competition, there is no body that can dispute or confirm that practice. Therefore, there is no body in the very Republic Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property that can assess whether something is for commercial purposes or not. Therefore, space for the abuse of certain designs or products, for example, for the purposes of doing, let us take any kind of advertising in which one product is not suggested to favour another, it is not for commercial purposes, or for the type of testing in which one car industry can by commercial means present the destruction of a car to favour its own and thus establish or at least try to increase the level of production and sales of its product type. So, if we are already talking about the scope of protection, more precisely, the right granted to registration of industrial design is absolutely right and, in the sense that a violation of rights exists, regardless of whether copying is done by accident or intentional means and in order for anyone to exercise their rights under the law, even copyright, the holder of those rights must show that the work that has committed the alleged injury, direct or indirect reproduction or copy protected by copyright. That's why I asked for this article to be deleted, because the rule of law confirmation is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33360	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33361	The draft law on the legal protection of industrial design refers to the chapter of law exhaustion, and on behalf of the SRS I have submitted an amendment in which I asked for the removal of the 1st position in the 45th article. However, in an explanation followed by the promoter, there is one contradictory thing, which is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the provision of Article 45 is accepted. The draft law holder of industrial design prevents his monopolies from abuse by trying to expand his monopoly beyond the framework that allows the classical right to industrial design. Any rightholder on an industrial design contract, bonding-law relationship, can prevent third parties from further reselling goods that integrate protected industrial design or are designed according to its protected industrial design, but cannot do so on the basis of property rights. as owner of industrial design rights. If, as a consequence of parallel imports on the market, a product which is authentically and legally placed on the market by the rightholder on industrial design and a product which has been placed on the market without the consent of the rightholder, in the opinion of the promoter, is not a violation of the right to industrial design, but a breach of a bond relationship or possibly customs regulations. We believe that the adoption of such an amendment, just within the framework of the Bill on Legal Protection of Industrial Design, would regulate this area, but we did not come across an understanding by the promoters. Otherwise, protecting industrial design and state or regional institutions, intellectual property institutions, it is clear that the owner should acquire the exclusive right to prevent others from being able to copy or imitate that design. It is part of a successful business logic, because in this way, as we could hear in the afternoon debate, absolutely stronger and business competitiveness and often additional income is made in one or more ways.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33362	It's been used 25 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Vladan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33363	Article 56 of the proposed law concerns the termination of the right to industrial design. On behalf of the SRS, an amendment has been submitted where it is requested to delete point 4 in Article 56, or if it ceases to exist a legal person or if a natural person who is entitled to industrial design has died, on the day of the termination of a legal person, or the death of a natural person, unless the right to industrial design has passed on to legal followers of these persons. The amendment is just a logical trail of previous amendments to the SRS in which we asked to respect the fact that legal followers in the event of the death of a person become bearers of the right to industrial design. Our principled view of the Bill on Legal Protection of Industrial Design is that, like other countries, they should be protected under the law on unfair competition, because in this way design can be protected precisely from the part of unfair competition, including particularly the literal copying of works that lead to confusion and imitation and use of other people's reputation. However, it is clear that there is a significantly weaker possibility of protection and that violations are more difficult to prove, and this was the reason why we tried to define in the proposal for a law on the protection of industrial design certain things in a legal way, thus avoiding any possible abuse or ambiguous interpretation of certain legal proposals. What I would also like to take this opportunity to take advantage of within the time we have for the parliamentary group is the fact that in some countries legislation allows so-called legislation. The grace period for registration from six months to one year most often since the moment the design became available to the public, discovered or published. It is cases where the products of the design concerned are sold, exposed at the trade fair or at other fairs or at the exhibition, or are published in catalogues, brochures or advertised before applying for protection of design. It is very important that during that period design can be placed, but not to lose the condition of the news and it is still possible to apply for registration. However, since this is not the case in all countries and because it is precisely this grace period that is time-limited, it is obvious that it is often better to keep the design in secret until the application for design protection is submitted. It is also important to note that during this grace period, design rights are lost, although design can also be automatically protected under the Copyright Act or the Law on unfair competition, depending on the provisions of relevant national legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33364	One minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the closing statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 30th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE LAW ON AUTOR AND SODITIONAL RIGHTS (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the bill: Djordje Milicevic, Zlata Đerić, Aleksandar Martinović, Miletic Mihajlović, Lidija Vukicevic, Boris Aleksic, Branimir Đokić, Dušan Marić, Sladjan Mijaljević, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Marina Toman, Dragan Stevanović, Svetlana Stojanović, Milos Aligrudić, Željko Tomić, Milan Nikolic, Momcilo Duvnjak, Mirko Munjic, Sreto Perić, Zoran Krasić, Sasa Dujović, Vladjan Jeremic, Suzana Grubješić, Dejan Radenković, Ivan Andrić, Vladan Batić, Vladan Duvnjak, Petar Duvnjak, Petar, Petar Muvnjak, Petar and Pojanović as well as well as well as well as a member of the Committee of the Committee. You received notice from MP Dejan Radenkovic and MP Susana Grubjesic to withdraw the amendments they submitted to Article 127. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the correction of the report since 26 November 2009, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33365	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, copyright and related rights should certainly be regulated by law, and it is certainly of utmost importance for every society, or every country, but such a law should truly protect the authors, it should truly protect the state from abuse and quasiauthors and those who abuse intellectual property and copyright, various plagiarists, etc. Unfortunately, this law, as well as most of the laws adopted in this parliament on a proposal from the Government of RS, are laws that are fully targeted for a particular group of people, in this case I don't mean authors and owners of intellectual property, but I mean the group led by Mladjan Dinkic, Sasa Popovic, Leka Brena, Zeljko Mitrovica and others around them, who will continue to be protected by these laws by filling their pockets, and that the real authors and owners of intellectual property will be damaged and that the state of Serbia, or the budget of the state of Serbia, will certainly be damaged. A colleague, Aleksandar Martinović, intervened with the amendment to Article 4, which says in the 1st position – copyright processing is considered an author's work if they meet the requirements of Article 2 of Article 1 of this Act, and he thought that we in the SRS too think that there must be said – if there is a previous consent of the author, because it is not possible that some rework can be done without the consent of the author, since the processing of an author's work can never be the original spiritual creation, the original intellectual property, because it is based on the already existing author's work. That is why we think it is necessary for each processing to ensure the previous consent of the author and thus protect the copyright and in order to avoid anyone else, I would say, a counterproductive benefit from someone's authorial work, but if you do not accept this amendment, then it will actually be legal to steal someone's idea, someone's intellectual property, someone's author's work. The basis for this amendment, among other things, exists in Article 17. The bill, which says the authors have the exclusive right to protect the integrity of their work and then say especially in what cases. And in order for this Article 17 to really be applicable, it was necessary to add these words to Article 4, i.e. that the final text of Article 1 of this Article is - copyright processing - to be considered as copyrighted if the conditions laid down in Article 2(1) of this Act are met and if there is a prior consent of the author. The Government has not accepted this amendment and is calling for Article 2(3). The Vienna Convention for the Protection of Literature and Art, etc., says among other things – the content of the proposed amendment is also fully contained in Article 31. Proposal for a law establishing the sole property right of the author to permit or prohibit the processing of his or her work. What does Article 31 say? The author has the exclusive right to allow others or prohibit adaptation, arrangement and other alterations. If this is regulated in Article 31 of this Act, there is no reason why this amendment should not be incorporated into Article 4(1). It's a bill of law. The insistence of the SRS on this and on the other amendments is, I said at the beginning, that the true protection of copyright and intellectual property, to protect the state of Serbia, and that when you adopt it, be concise, precise and clear, because this law has continued the practice that has been present here for the last nine years, that the laws can be written with – instead – must put the point where it should be entangled with even more detailed work, and it is clear to us that it is only done with the goal that the law should be misused. I suggest, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the assembly majority, that you accept this amendment. He's useful, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33366	Five minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Lidija Vukicevic submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a letter from Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33367	Article 11 after Article 3 adds the item 4 which reads – coauthors are also considered to be stage designers, editor, mask author, designer of special effects and other participants if the contract defines their authorial contribution. I don't think it would be justified for the proposed faces to be left out as coauthors because of the unquestionable contributions they make to the creation of some work of art. So if a work of art is made, and these professions are not represented as coauthors, they have no compensation for further use of the piece. Of course it's all regulated by the contract between the authors and coauthors, i.e. all participants in the creation of an art project. That's why I think we should accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33368	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) In the application are MPs Sreto Peric and Branimir Djokić. National MP Branimir Djokic, and Ambassador Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33369	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President, the Honored Ministers, we have submitted to Article 14, Mr Boris Alexic, believing that because of the circumstances that are in practice, words are added in attitude 2 – the author cannot give up copyright for the benefit of the other person. Let's get this point straight, which is why we think it is. We believe that this attitude is necessary to prevent blackmailing authors by publishers, phonogram manufacturers and distributors. I know that by international and our right author can do it in certain cases, but we have brought practical things to find a solution how and in which case the author can give up his copyright for the benefit of another. I'd like to explain that a little bit now, because there's a lot of abuse being done, there's a lot of blackmail from certain record houses that have a monopoly here on our premises, that distributes in the discography. Of course, then the author is given certain conditions to give up his rights or performer, in order to issue them their CDs and those unable to agree to his authorial work, so to speak, the classic blackmail from the discographers who are doing it massively. We felt that in some way we should find a solution, if the author already wants to and believes that he should give up his copyright in favour of someone else, that it must have some reasonable reason why he does it, not that he would come out of pure peace and sign a contract with a record house, in which he says that he gives up all his copyrights, performing rights and that I do not list any further. It's a typical blackmailing author and it's a mass phenomenon with us in Serbia. I think that in some ways this article should either work out or find some solution that will allow the author not to come into such a position that he is forced to do so, because in some other way he has no place to publish his work. I'm going to talk a little later about organizations that are authorized, such as phonogram organization, SOKOJ organization, and interpretor organisation, and we even have an actor organisation, each of which performs individually, and each individual is looking for its place in this law. First of all, I would have spoken to you, because I think the Institute of Intellectual Property should have reacted a long time ago and that, perhaps, certain organizations that have been authorised and do this job for years, which they have been given the license, come in and see their way of doing it and how they do it. There are many reasons, I speak on behalf of many artists who are dissatisfied, who have no opportunity to exercise their rights - authors, who have just come into the situation that neither receive compensation for their work, nor where to publish, a completely single lobby was made, that maybe certain agencies should have lost their work license long ago, and that job, of course, should be done by the Institute of Intellectual Property, which gives permission and to exercise control to see if they are doing so properly. Since it hasn't worked for years, it hasn't been done properly for years, now the Institute of Intellectual Property is asking, why hasn't it responded so far? Maybe a whole other picture would be here in Serbia, maybe something could be fixed. In any case, there is one member who has been missed in the working debate, where it is requested that this member, I think 219, should have been installed that all these organisations that have the authority to do this part of the work in their area must submit new requirements and compete again as new organisations or as old organisations, with their statutes adapted to carry out this activity. This would allow other working organisations or associations or agencies that could compete with the IPR, which might do so better. This is how we came into the situation that only these four organizations or associations that do this are effectively entering the law, we confirm them as institutions that deal with this business, and we know back when we go back all these years to how many irregularities are in their work, so at least now, by entering this new law, we can install that part to enable artists, authors and all participants in this area to maybe with some other organisation, which they would organize, by association, compete, prove their representativeness and get permission to work. I'm going to talk about these problems later, so I'm going back to Article 14, where we thought we should find a solution to how to make a buckle, where the author would have to make a written statement about the reasons why he gave up his authorial work, and not just be entitled to it. Later, of course, proving why he has the right and all the money flows and remains, of course, the publisher, the one who publishes his author's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33370	It's been used seven minutes since the authorized representative's time. The word is wanted by the MP Svetlana Stojanovic, so the MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33371	This amendment sees one weakness of the copyright and related law in general, a weakness that stretches through many members of the law. There's no difference between the author and the copyright holder. The author really cannot give up his authorship, or the authorship is uncut, nor does anyone else have the right to claim that he is the author of a work that he is not, not just works that are recorded on phonograms and sound carriers, but the author has absolutely the right to sell his copyrights, give up, sell at any price or for any other reason pass on to someone else. It is not precise in this law, it is not a demarcated author of copyright holders.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33372	It's been used 50 seconds since the parliamentary group's time. National MP Sreto Peric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I can agree with the part of Mrs Stojanovic's exposure, but we wanted to point this amendment to an alarming situation in this area. By the time we passed the law, about 8,000 members of the SOKOJ were looking forward to it, a large number of owners of independent, commercial, catering and other shops were also looking forward to passing this law, because they felt that the adoption and adoption of this law in this House would stop their sufferings so far. Of course, both a large number of authors and a large number of organizations expected that we would have one quality law. However, this is not the case. I must remind my colleagues in parliament, when this amendment was discussed in the Committee on Science and Technological Development, Mrs Branka Totic, otherwise the director of the Institute for Intellectual Property, before the full argument presented by Branimir Djokic as an authorised representative of the SRS, gave confirmation that this is the case. So that's absolutely true, but there was no will or solution. It is unlikely that, at this stage, it is difficult to re-interpret, transpose a complete legislative proposal and resolve those requirements that many users, or those to which this law will apply, expected to be set up here. Article 14 says - the author has the exclusive right to recognize his authorship in his work. We have no interventions on that part, but counterpart Boris Aleksic suggested adding another stance -- the author cannot give up copyright in favour of the other person. Now she talks, exhibits and arguments by Mrs Stojanovic can be accepted. We had the intention of just a large number of performers, and sometimes the authors who are exploited, first of all, by the production of "Grand", I don't even know what they're called all day and night, and they show up, and they hire young people, and then they use their talent, and even copyright for their own purpose. To us, the goal was to add this attitude that says - that it cannot be denied the copyright author. There may be a need sometimes for his right to be transferable and hereditary. That was true and it could be regulated to another member of this law, but in an explanation, which is why this amendment is not accepted, it is said that – that the amendment is not accepted for reasons of Article 14. The bill refers to only one personal legal authority of the author, to the right to recognise the works of the authorship. Copyright is original law. We do not ask that someone give up, that is, to change attitude 1. Article 1 remains as in the draft law, and Article 2 was necessary. He says by accepting the proposed amendment that the author could not give up copyright for the benefit of the other person would by far exceed the authority to recognise the author's work. It wouldn't go beyond these rights at all, it would just protect a certain number of authors. It was also necessary to accept an amendment to a member of the 4th counterpart Martinovic. Both counterpart Martinovic and Boris Aleksic and counterpart Branimir Djokic are authors of countless works and they have enormous experience in this area. That's why they point to all the problems that can arise because of a law like this, as set out in the proposal. The amendments are general to a significant extent, not only to correct the text of the law, but in practice to allow for a number of abuses. You see, fellow MPs, if one author, I will finally tell you which author it is, if you liquefy one. Last year, for one song, he received from SOKOJ 218.6,000 dinars, author of the song by Mr Mladjan Dinkic. A well-known musician, accordionist, arrangements, composer for some 2,000 musical achievements, gets 300,000 at an annual level. Probably then the way the radio stations deliver reports to Sokoya that were broadcast over a certain period leads to this, but surely it's not, or we also have a Broadcasting Agency. Why is Sokoy here - to protect the copyright? You don't protect it this way. On a very small number of samples, perhaps about 20%, which send them their documentation neatly, they based on some principle or some pattern of how and how to reward a certain number of authors, and you'll admit you have to agree with that, the authors they reward in this way certainly don't deserve it, unless they made a huge contribution -- whether they made this government, whether in its maintenance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33374	Five minutes and 20 seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. This amendment was adopted by both the Government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Branimir Djokić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33375	Here, let me refer to this amendment 15. We are spinning again, the same or similar story about the protection of these authors and the abuse of certain organizations that are of course registered for this area. You know very well that this law should have, in a way, brought a lot of improvements in this area, since we all know that for years there has been one chaotic state in the music industry here. However, this law has brought some cosmetic changes. There is, I can't say, and the good things that have been installed. But, of course, there were gaps, and I think it took a little more attention to protect the authors. How do you protect yourself? First, I'm going back to the organizations, which were registered again, which had to be somehow controlled, or their work. We've introduced them here automatically into the law. There are interpreters, Sokoj appears, as an agency that exists to protect copyrights, phonograms appear, actor agencies appear. I know it's a good thing that we've all advocated -- to get one roof commission to deal with the tariff and single system of charge, so that not every one of them gets mixed up and does what they do. And that's a good thing we say hello. And I think it'll sort of introduce as much order as it does. But I'm asking now what happens to the work these agencies have been doing so far? Applications were made, even as regards phonograms, the PGP record company submitted a direct request for control on 24 October 2008 for the launch of the phonogram control procedure and for the withdrawal of the phonogram work permit. The Bureau probably looked at it, according to our records here and the data, and looked at and made observations about what needs to be fixed in the business of these disgraphers organisations, who call themselves OFES. However, in addition to everything that the Institute has established that they are not doing what they should do, to work by some of their rules, it has given them guidance. I can read that here. I've got everything the Bureau has ordered them to do, which is fine. But that's all that's left. It happened in 2007. What's going on from 2007 to today? Did they fix it? Have they done anything to improve all this – they are nothing? They even appeared in the documentation that we have here, that they lend to each other, that is to say, certain loans of money, so the phonogram borrowed 14 million dinars of Communi, the organization, and their President of the Commune is a member of the Executive Group, or the Committee of Phonograms. Not to tell you what's going on here right now about their fees and sharing a cake together. That's the main word run by a couple of disco houses. We've come to the point that here, according to the chart we've got, that City Records, Grand Production, while the PGP has already come out of that system for a year and a half or not, but it's not coming to meetings at all, they're going to allocate that money by being their board of directors, where there are five same people, three people from the Supervisory Board and three others, there's the Assembly and all that, so that's what they're doing. I have an official report here. I'm saying all of this so I can sort of ask the Bureau -- why hasn't it been answered, why hasn't someone come to say it's not how it can be done? Why didn't they put their work under the bat? It's about millions of dollars. There is one invoice that appears, e.g. PGP – OFES, by PGP, 2006, has been invoiced 3,666,666,6666 pairs, which the PGP is asking for in the division of a joint disconographer. Now watch this, OFES, the organisation of phonograms invoices RTS for the same year, and the claims are 14.160,000 dinars to pay them RTS into their organization. If it is known that the PGP is in the RTS and if the PGP has at least 80% of its editions or 70% of its personal editions from the RTV system, since it has its own ensembles, orchestras, cameramen, studios, as possible – that the PGP in that year of phonogram is invoiced from 3.6666,666, and then, when they invoice it for PGP, phonograms ask RTS 14 million. On what basis their board of directors and the distribution of money are now functioning. It repeats the same story that in 2007, the PGP now seeks 9 million from the joint cake, and phonograms later ask RTS for 14 million and 160 dinars. That's the difference in 2007, 11 million dinars, in 2007, three million, four million dinar difference. Not to mention next year, 2008, nine million. They play for millions, like kids playing with dinars, throw them in the yard. Did you, uh, I.D., register that? Has anyone come to say, "people, what's this about?" I don't want to defend here neither PGP nor RTS, nor RTS television, but it's perfectly normal that RTS doesn't want to pay any debts to SOKOJ, 8-9 million dinars, and they don't want to pay them, they're out of the system, although I'm not talking about the charge that's being made through Serbia where somewhere over 51% of the total money is being charged from public broadcasting. Please, don't this kind of organization, with this present bill, I have nothing personal against anyone in that organization, I can't say who's doing what here, according to the papers and reports I have, such an organization automatically enters a law confirming its further work. It's just that it's said to bring its statutes into line with the new law. There's no way there's some other organization that's going to compete with them and tell them -- wait, and you deal with them as a state. What about the money that was collected five or six years ago? How is it shared? Who was it assigned to? What was she like? In 2007, 159 million were shared. That's almost two million euros. Now you have one, you know that, I have to show you that, in order for the money that was killed in the first year or second year, they agreed, please, be careful, the organization, you don't know who it belongs to, so they said as a distribution one, there's a letter open to you here. They all advocated that this organization would come to life, that it would begin to work. When the money came, they agreed to divide that money on a friendly basis, as they consider it, so they said -- three of the biggest disco houses of PGP, City Records, Grand Production, took three million 666 thousand 66 dinars for the first part, the second City also has 660 and the third Grand has 600. So that's the one from the eye. Let's split the three of us in equal honor. Now, let's talk about another group of these discographers. There are nine of them here. They all shared 2,372,322 dinars. All nine got the same. The third group, which is about 12, divided something about 995 grand. So this is proof that they don't have a rulebook or a way to distribute money or just have it on paper. Please, how is it possible for us to split the money into equal honors, because we, as a part of our participation, have this association, the agency worked out and done it right? Besides, nothing has been done, they continue their normal work and coordinate only their acts. So I'm saying, this is just one example, there's a lot of such examples, a lot of paper, this takes a total analysis from the IPR to get into all these associations, into SOKJ. No better organization is in the SOKO, nothing is better done, no one is lying to you, as follows. Money is divided as it is divided, and to the harm of the authors and the people of this area. Then I'll say something about the permit you gave for the interpreters' agency. It's a special story. That agency must exist and that's a good way and a step, but the way it's organized and she's going to do business now, that's another story. Please find a solution to put the possibility somewhere in this law that other artists, biographers, authors can compete and give the opportunity for a new association to protect their artists. This is how it happened that a really, really small word is a lobby, this is forced, which says, a racket to the artists to be taken, so they can publish their works. If they have no other place to publish it, but they have to go directly there, as predicted by the Law on collective protection, he is forced to agree to all these conditions that they dictate, and with the blessing of the state. The state didn't do anything to say anything - please, what's going on here? People get arrested for 100 euros. You put doctors in jail, he says -- he gets two whiskeys or chocolates, he goes to jail for a month. This is about millions of euros. No one reacts to that, but on the contrary, we put it back into law and without the possibility of other associations and biographies, people to organize, to take over to do so by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33376	Two minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group and the full time of the authorised representative was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33377	Ladies and gentlemen, in this bill, the proposer goes, when it comes to protecting the rights of the author, from extreme to extreme. There are solutions that give authors too many powers, and on the other hand, there are still some solutions that, in my opinion, represent a violation of the basic rights of the authors. Article 16 paragraph 1 reads - the author has the exclusive right to publish his work and to determine how it will be published. We of the SRS have submitted an amendment suggesting that the words "author" are added after the word "author" or "legal or physical person" which he has authorized. I really believe that there is nothing controversial in this amendment, that the amendment is perfectly logical, because it makes sense for me that the author has the right to publish or not publish his part, and also has the right to publish it himself or to empower another natural or legal person to do so on his behalf. I'm telling you that the government should accept this amendment. I will also comment on Article 45, which, in my opinion, also violates the rights of the author. Article 45 reads - it is allowed without permission of the author, without payment of the copyright fee, multiplication of works by public libraries, educational institutions, museums, archives only for its own archival and non-commercial purposes. If this solution remains, then a particular library or a particular educational institution may happen, and above all I think of private educational institutions, a particular literary work that is popular at that time, let's say a particular novel that is the last hit by readers, is multiplied into 20,000 or 30,000 copies and divided for free, meaning for non-commercial purposes. He will not make any revenue in this way, but he will express himself. What's most important, which is why I'm mentioning this, will cause enormous material damage to the authors. I simply believe that the Government should accept amendments to the SRS both on this article and on Article 16.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33378	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33379	Article 18 says - author has the sole right to oppose the exploitation of his work in a way that threatens or threatens his honor or reputation. We suggest adding the words "or material damage" to it here. It is simply unimaginable, absurd, that you adopt a copyright law, and that law does not provide for the right of the author to oppose the use or abuse of his work in a way that causes him material damage. In an explanation for which the amendment refuses, the Government has written - the amendment is not accepted for the reason it is on the basis of Article 18. The draft law author authorised to oppose any unauthorized use of his work, which threatens his honor or reputation, whether material damage is done to him by such exploitation. I'm not arguing around here. You have here about as much as talking to someone who's blind and someone who's deaf. I'm talking about one thing, and they're talking about another thing. It is indisputable here to protect the right of the author to oppose the exploitation of his work that causes him moral damage, but the problem is that you did not foresee the right of the author to oppose the use of his work in a way that causes him material damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33380	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18, the amendment was submitted by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33381	I have submitted an amendment to Article 18 to replace the point with a comma, after which the words "as well as widely accepted traditional values" are added. Practice has shown that authorities in our country rarely protect traditional values that individuals or some groups make fun of. This is about values that have been confirmed through tradition and that have endured a test of time, of course, history. Very often patriotic acts and acts of national importance are destroyed, presented in an unacceptable way and ridiculed. Also, through some examples, if it participates in the competition of a state institution or local self-government for an idea solution represented by that institution. It is insufficient to protect only the moral rights of the authors, but it is precisely what the government is running from, and I quote, as they stated in the explanation, "not the protection of the general public values" but only the author. So, the SRS cares about every shift of Serbian statehood, in each segment and those of its social and traditional values that give it a certain physionomy and picture of us. Finally, a question arises – from what value does the author perform his honor and reputation to protect them? What are their starting values if they are not generally accepted values.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33382	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33383	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the most important amendments that Mrs Pop-Lazic has submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, because it regulates the area of property rights of the author and if you now start from all those actors from the Singapore Association, from those who are not, say, Mrs Lidija Vukicevic is also a graduate drama author or actor, not an interpreter, as it is funny in the law here, which is why her colleagues have rebelled. If you ask any of our celebrated directors, let's say Professor Emir Kusturic, who won two gold palms and also the only man from these areas who has received prestigious awards for his film works or anyone else, they will tell you that they have received as authors of zero dinars for the performance of their works. This law is a farce. The Institute of Intellectual Property can register, but there is no special state body to deal with plagiarism, abuse, which is referred to by the amendment by Mrs Pop-Lazic, because she said, that that is how the proposer wrote, that for every use of the author's work by another person, the author is entitled to compensation. There is Mrs Pop-Lazic's point, and the proposer says "if this law or contract is not different". Who's the one who dares, and this is who works in this country, that abuses someone's author's work? How, for example, will any of these directors, I have mentioned only one, since he has celebrated our country and our people with his films, Emir Kusturic, but how will Mrs Lidija Vukicevic know in which city and on which local television is broadcast "Better Life", "Lutalice", or some of the films in which she played the lead? How can he claim compensation for his acting rights? How does a author do that? You know that this area is over, nothing can be perfect, but best arranged in France, they have inspection supervision of abuse, especially when it comes to broadcasting via online, or live television, etc. You can now type in via Google – a live film, home series, all to watch for free as much as you want without authors and performers having any compensation from it. In addition, the role of Sokoja is at stake here, as Mr. Sreto Peric spoke about and their performances that arrived and the letters they addressed to the board, also personally to Mr. Branimir Djokic. Sokoya cannot be a surveillance body for plagiarists being carried out in this country, nor to enter where it is, and it is a public secret that there is a cedea on the elbow of a turn in Zemun, by this CD mafia mentioned by Mrs Radet, for only one euro, for those works and those performers who in every normal state should have their legitimate price on the market for their actions, that is, what they have invested in their work to produce. Who will protect the rights of foreign authors for the abuses that occur here? You're well-known, probably listeners' audience, you've heard of Amr Diaba's name, he's one of the most famous Arab performers, every year he's a winner, I mean three or four backwards, prestigious awards for his songs and his tunes. His publishing house cannot search for rights here, and it could, because at least ten performers in Serbia are singing his songs, otherwise it is translated into at least 19 languages. I have also consulted with Mr. Djokic, this should be investigated by Sokoy – why does someone deal with plagiarism, or why he abuses, whether the songs or the melodies of Amr Diab or another performer represent it as his own and has an enormous profit on all of this? Therefore, if you really wanted, as you were warned by actors and directors and writers and all others who represent, in a cultural sense, the basis of our society and who have celebrated our country and our people with their roles and actions, you could, on the basis of a comparative right and as many more serious countries have done to arrange this area. So, if you don't accept this amendment, you're specifically talking about copyright abuse here, you're going to leave someone out of the mood whether or not they're going to have a contract. You know, when he started for the second or third time, it's probably embarrassing for his colleague Vukicevic to talk about, to rephrase the "Better Life" series, they had one signed contract once, I think it was with RTS, they were the only ones who respected it, but what would she or any of her other colleagues do if they abused it without a signed contract, and that would remain if Mrs Pop-Lazic's amendment was not accepted, some other television house? He won't get anything, zero dinars. Therefore, no one will respect their rights, and for this reason protests and actors and all those who, since this bill saw the light of day, have sharply criticised the government. This is indeed a scandal of unprecedented proportions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33384	Six minutes of time used by the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tried here with its amendment to upgrade this member. Otherwise, this member is under his head – The right to broadcast. By the way, it defines that the author has the right to prohibit or allow the broadcast of his work, and Article 2 on which we intervened reads: "By broadcasting, within the meaning of this article, public announcement of works is considered to be a wire or wireless transmission of radio or television broadcasts intended for public reception." The bracket says: "radiodifusion and cable dysfunction". Our amendment suggested adding "internet and mobile telephony" here. We have no illusion that this is difficult to implement. Of course, the amendment is meaningful, and you also admitted in the explanation that you refused the amendment. So, the amendment is possible, but the government is also through the fact that it has rejected this amendment and acknowledged its weakness in this area which, otherwise, my colleagues and Branimir Djokic and everyone else say, is quite unedited in Serbia today. This law does not guarantee that during time it will be properly treated and improved, but this intention has been, if nothing else, to draw attention to you that abuses in the field of broadcasting rights are not only happening on televisions or radio stations, they are also the subject of abuse in mobile telephony and certainly in the area of the Internet. We understand that the state has no mechanisms, whether it's mechanisms or it's a matter of political will, but today we are all witnessing that there are local and regional televisions that have been broadcasting music almost all day, not taking care of copyright, or the right to broadcast on such a thing. On the Internet it will be, or it is really harder to control, but the intention of the SRS was, if nothing else, if we have failed to convince you and make you accept this, to make you think about the abuses that are happening on the Internet, and certainly in mobile phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33386	20 seconds of MP time was used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the next amendment, just to inform the MPs that the LDP parliamentary group at points 27 to 30 will be represented by MP Ivan Andric for the debate in particular. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Marina Toman. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Branimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33387	This is about protecting the authors, so this whole story that we're running here today about this law should essentially regulate all matter. Now I would refer to the story we already had on the round table here in the Assembly, there were gentlemen from the Institute of Intellectual Property and there were plenty of representatives of public institutions and associations. I'd just like to give an example now, when I said earlier that it was meant to be put under the bat of these agencies, I'd like to give an example. Yesterday in the paper, I found four other travel agencies who were out of a license to work. Now watch out for one -- the Basturist agency has deceived nine graduates from India. For nine graduates who didn't go to the destination they were supposed to go to, this agency lost their license. She's just one of the many agencies that have lost their license to work in the last six months. Why doesn't anyone here try to apply the law and you who are authorized as a state institution to apply it, come and see how it's done, unless it's done to apply the law, to take someone's work license away. However, nothing is happening here, so that the working organisations will continue to work as they do. I ask you once again to review these memos and try to find a way to create space, the possibility of some other organisations that can enter and apply to get legal authority from you so that they can perform certain activities so that authors, performers and all people in this area can look for a place in another organisation that protects their interest. If it stays this way, nothing will change and, of course, it will continue as usual, maybe a little bit better, because there are provisions of the law where certain commissions are scheduled to participate in the making of tariffs and, of course, it will try to make it a little easier, but I think you need to find that solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33388	One minute has been spent on the MP's group's time. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33389	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law regulates not only the question of the artist of works, the author of music art, but also the author of scientific works. I think Mr Branimir Djokic's amendment is fine and you should accept it. It's said, "The author has the exclusive right to allow others to change their actions." Of course, this means that if the author dies, so does his successors. I'll remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the DS, or former DOS, of a booth written by Professor Vojislav Seselj, in which he discovered a great plagiarizer who to this day had nothing happened. You know, intellectual property is impeccable. Stealing intellectual property is the biggest crime, bigger crime than stealing intellectual property from a dead author. Your intellectual feather, a certain Stevan Lilić, who is still a professor at the Faculty of Law, at the accident of the Faculty of Law, from dead professor Dr. Laza Kostic literally prescribed administrative law, baptized him into administrative law and wrote himself as an author. So, just two changes - the name of the author and instead of administrative administrative law. Prof. Vojislav Seselj in the booth proved to everyone who wanted to read that it was literally copied, even the point and the point placed where it should, even some anachronisms that functioned in the legal system at that time, now slightly exceeded, even prescribed them. And what happened to him? Nothing. If this law doesn't regulate that even stealing intellectual property cannot be allowed, then there will be new Stevani Lilici, new plagiarists. Let me remind you, the booth written by Professor Vojislav Seselj is called "Podli and dirty plagiar Stevan Lilić". Are we going to let people vultures appear in science and in art and culture, people who are going to kidnap others, especially when the author of the work that is eternally dying and his heirs are not in a position to continue to use it? What would happen if someone signed a picture of Milic from the Sword now? If this law doesn't regulate those things, then we're free to pass the law. We bring it in so that then, as you baptized it the other day, the guillotine of certain regulations, we can pass the law for a future guillotine.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33390	Three minutes and 10 seconds of the Parliament's time spent. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP Branimir Djokić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33391	To Article 32. "All is erased," that is the right to be given to the author inexplicable. This member is without it impossible to carry out control of this entire radio procedure. It is the impression that the bill gives authors often the rights that are impossible to achieve and that distributors and publishers of certain disco houses are so entitled to collect huge amounts of money from other people's work. Now let me go back to the current functioning of these agencies, so I can say how it's done and why it's done. You see, RRA, their function would be, as there are, to control the work of all radio stations in Serbia, television and all the facilities they are in charge of, so that they can control whether radio stations send these agencies shirts so-called. or, if you want, correspondence of what they are broadcasting within 24 hours, which music works, so that when it comes to certain agencies, such as SOKOJ, such as the phonograms Agency, such as the Interpretators Agency, it will know what was done, to whom it belongs, to which authors, to which performers. It's something that's been around the world for years, and it's worked for us. Of course, it's not on the market here. Why isn't that happening? Well, it can be introduced quietly in 24 hours, it's nothing new and nothing that isn't something that it can't. You know that, there's a computer, they can send all the data and everything to be clean. Here, it is knowingly avoided because certain money arrives unscheduled, it is not known how much it is broadcast, and it is obtained by sued by SOKOJ or phonome certain radio stations, at the first hearing they receive a dispute because they are authorised by law to do so, the court makes some decisions about their own understanding at that point, how much someone should have paid a year back or two years ago to the authors, i.e. SOKOJ or phonomems, and then that money when it comes, is that 200 grand, 500 grand, that money when it gets to that pile then you don't know whose money it is. Then it reaches out to some of the rules that they're supposed to be making, so they say -- it's going to be a rapper for those radio cells that run the shirts, and maybe there's 10 to 15% and a half of 100% of the money that either came into that account, is it possible to be just a rapper 10%-15%, maybe the same 80% of the radio, TV broadcast some other pieces, other composers, performers. No, it's most of the money that comes, and you don't know whose it is, it's taken and it's kind of shared in this system. There are various forms of how that money is shared. There are many other solutions that can be regulated, which is firstly that radio stations, television must send shirts every month to guide and record the broadcasting of these works, because that is the basis. If, of 100% of radio stations, 90% send their papers and documentation to all these institutions neatly, then you can take as a rapper for the other part of the collected money that is obtained from public performance and other procurement on the market. Then you can look for it, but this isn't the thing, it's working the other way around here, so shut up, so shut up, keep your phonograms quiet, RRA does nothing, and they don't do anything, they find that this formula has worked for years and that's how it's done. Now I'm going to show you here another document that came directly from a man who was the director of the board of directors of Discographs, a former director of the PGP, where he says - instead of shirts, a "markesh" principle was applied, but not as prepared in 2006 by the previous board of directors, but the "markesh" principle is depicted in the business of "Siti Records" and "Grand Production". You have here, it's sent to you the same thing, it's all seductive, it says: "The composition of the phonogram organ includes publishers who are not members of the SOKOJ collective organisation or who do not fully or partially respect it, "Grand production" does not pay mechanical copyright fees, nor does it report auctions of sales, although "Grand" is due on the basis of the broadcasting and public announcement of copyright works performed on the sound carriers of the "Grand Production". The Grand Mechanical Compensation doesn't pay for the recordings that the PGP RTS sometimes gives him, so he didn't take the rights from the author, and he can't pass them on to another. "Siti Records" pays copyright mechanical compensation, but along with a fee from broadcasting and public statement, it is again charged by SOKOJ." These are all the things I can tell you right now, which are the official data of an institution, the one director who was on that board, so he was thrown out. Is this true, isn't it true, I'm transferring this because it's been seduced, certifiedly neatly, I can't say, but if you got it too, and if all the services got it, please, how is it possible that no one would do anything about it? How is that possible? Here I kind of bonded to phonograms, tied to SOKOJ, because they're basically the same problems, similar, only in different ways the right of the author, the division of money by some of their decisions. A colleague said earlier, I don't mind, I want my colleagues to get a lot more than they get, as Mr. Mladjan Dinkic got 300,000, got 500,000. That's all nice, but tell me, what about those performers who have hundreds and hundreds of arranged numbers, compositions, authors, processing, whose works have been spinning for 20 years? In five years, they don't get a thousand euros. What kind of mechanism is that? How do they do that? Three years ago, colleagues in SOKJ made some coup, it didn't work out, a new set came in, now it's gonna be better, nothing's changed. Maybe it's just better for those who are at that source. Is there anyone in there who can control it? When you talk to them if you know what they're saying, whether it was SOKOJ, whether it's a phonogram, they say from a phonogram -- well, sue the record office. Wait, as an individual or an artist, I'm going into a dispute with someone who's known to be unable to get it because we don't have the information back in two years, in a year what's been broadcast across Serbia, abroad. Where did we get this information? How do we get to court? They automatically know we have nothing to look for. So one author, another author, fifth and a hundredths give up on it and sits silently and watches what happens around it, while a certain group of people get rich, buys planes, trucks, all under the cloak to do some work on behalf of certain artists and protect their rights, and until then the state looks at it all peacefully. Now I'm going to ask you one more thing to know why I insist on possibilities, I know that by law one organization has to run this story, it's known, but why not create competition, why not allow another organization? You registered the agency two years ago. Do you know what's on the website? What is happening in the Assembly, I didn't even know that Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic is a shareholder in that agency, who will process data for interpreters, I don't mind, everyone has the right to be where the shareholder wants to be, but this interpreter organisation also got retroactively and registered in a very suspicious way. For your information, I came three years ago because the Union of Essradic Artists of Serbia, which has 30 associations in its composition, which has only protocold artists working in this business, was supposed to be one of the organizers of that agency. He didn't get into that story just because they were registered and representative was obtained by bringing the association more on the paper members, not by checking whether these people were engaged in the profession. It's already a professional story, whether they're artists, whether they're in the business. Even in your office, we were told, that was three years ago, don't, don't care, we're only interested in the association that hit those people. What does that mean? I could've collected five thousand signatures on the street, and you wouldn't be getting into it. Can people sign for some associations or a bar, people who have nothing to do with culture, they don't do that, they can't do that. You've registered the Agency, three and a half thousand artists who are protocold, who pay taxes, social, health care, who are professionally in their business, are not in place. That's for sure. They're not part of this interpretation organization. Their fate is decided by those other associations that have brought a fictitiously two thousand each, a thousand of their members. You gave the permit. They made these people a congregation, boards of directors, and already their own bodies, which sort of make all the decisions for these people, three and a half thousand, who didn't want to sign, just for that kind of thing. Now it's happening that this interpretor organization makes certain technical cooperation contracts with the Agency this second, the Yugoslav authoring agency that used to be, to the shareholders' society, to do them services, and now watch out for one story, which you know, but I'm talking about it for the public and for all the artists who listen to this, 30% are taken for the work of this agency, the newly founded, the performer, 20% for the services that the shareholders are doing. That's 50%, please, 50% of the money collected from the market, you put to take for technical service. Where is it, please? You know why that is? Because this agency that's registered, you've given her permission, registered with people, every honor, I won't generalize, there's a lot of people who have really done business, who, first of all, aren't competent, who don't know this problem, and there are people who are put on these committees and congregation bodies who are just going to name what a group of people are telling them to do and they did it. You can take it off the site. How does this organization work? How will the author, the performer, address whom? There's no other choice but to go to that agency again, because it's the only one who's registered and got permission to do it. So she's the master of life and death. THE SOKE is the master of life and death, aligned by the same masters of life and death in this area as we do. I think there's got to be something here, I don't know what or how, but the Institute of Intellectual Property has to stop at the ball and search all of this from the administration, how this agency works for interpreters, how it's registered, who its representatives are here, by SOKOJ, how it collects money, how it divides money, to whom this money goes, it's huge money, only in 2008 four million euros were collected. A 2007 phonogram of two million euros. That's the data, for other years I don't know, it's kind of moving. Ask, we'll do a survey, as the art associations of the artists of Serbia, so we can all report to us within a month to get as much as anyone has received from the author of money, the performer, from Fonogram, and you'll see, we'll deliver it to you, we'll do that poll that will take a group of people, two groups or three groups, a total of 50, 60 people, 100, and the rest of them get some crumbs to satisfy that form to take care of everything. They will receive 10 euros, 20 euros, 100 euros, and someone will receive 50,000 euros, over 100,000 euros. Please pay attention, this law will not be able to function at all despite all these commissions that you will organise that we support. Until it gets in the way, let's not say the hard word, the cowboy and the distribution of money, which is collapsing in all these agencies. This interpreter agency didn't start working, but now that it's starting to work, when it asks for an application from the Fonogram, which belongs back in a year, or two, three years, that money will come and it will be the figures of two, or three, or five million euros. How is she going to share that? Who's gonna decide? Unfortunately, some people who are put on a board of directors are going to decide just to figure it out, and they have no idea what it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33392	13 minutes and 50 seconds of MP time have been used. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33393	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened very carefully to all the discussions so far, and in general I agree with my colleague Branimir Djokic, because he is mostly talking about the period behind us and this law is trying to make some lack of current legislation and legislation that is still in force to eliminate and avoid. What I would have to comment on is, conditionally speaking, the newly formed organizations of the interpreters. First of all, I am very sorry to say that the Union of Estradic Artists, headed by Branimir Djokic, is also not one of the founders of this organization, because this Alliance that gathers a series of associations should, in my deep conviction, give its contribution to both this matter and everything else, because if it intends to control something and to influence something, it really should be, I think it's the right place in this interpretation organization. I reported right after he talked about the interpreters' organisation signing a contract with the Yugoslav Copyright Agency to warn that an interpreter's organisation has received a phonogram from the organisation, one of which charged compensation for the music works of zero dinars. So she could not manipulate anything, nor could she have signed a 20% contract with the Yugoslav authoring agency, which she signed for the 20 per cent of the income that the Interpreter's Organization made, to do these administrative tasks, nor could she transfer anything. It's from zero. So, in that sense, I think that a huge abuse of the name of the prime minister as one of the shareholders with 5.2%, I think, of the Yugoslav Copyright Agency, but what is the real question is -- where are those money that are collected, what is the phonogram organisation in the previous and previous few years achieved by collecting that unique compensation? Therefore, this law does not prejudge anything. He's establishing a democratic right. As for the Interpreter's Organization, I have the impression that there are some people and a number of associations, even from the Association of Essradic Artists, which Mr Bane Djokic knows well. I think that's the place for them too, and that's why we don't expect that the state will always control, especially when it comes to such independent organisations or private firms, everything, but that we, with our own knowledge within our own organizations, such as the Union of Estradic Artists, are contributing to that control, because it is in the most part in the interests of authors and performers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33394	Three minutes have been used by authorised representatives of the parliamentary group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Branimir Djokić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33395	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will join my colleague Gorica Mojovic's discussion. To avoid confusion, I didn't mention at any point that the Interpreter Agency could have taken part in a story like this. That's a good point. He's talking backwards about what's going on with the agencies that have been working so far, like the Agency's phonograms, SOKOJ. I've set the example that if we get into this situation now that we're coming into, that no one's ever responded to how this money was shared in the first place, and how it was held, and that one group is constantly getting at the heart of the 80%. So we're going to get into a situation where if this mechanism isn't found, this newly formed agency is going to get into that same problem. So, I mean, I haven't been president of the Alliance in three or four years, but I'm a member of all that, and I represent my colleagues, as well as they do me, and we're very busy being in that agency, and we'll be safe to help, but let's just let what Mrs Mojovic said, what happens, how will the agency of the interpreters charge money from these for all this time back? On what grounds? By what rules? No one knows whose money it is, how much division it's going to be, how it's going to be done. Once again, some form will be found, and whoever is at the spring, he will drink water, and whoever is not, he will die thirsty. You let that happen, I keep coming back, don't be angry, I call you to react. You had to solve a lot of things before that, and then we'd have to do the law. You have tried this law to resolve it and I hope this law will help at least stand in the way of further such business, let me say, taking money when anyone arrives. The situation in which the Interpretators Agency is now coming will be very insecure, it will have to do well to make some mechanisms how to charge that money, how when it gets it, how much money it is, who will determine now how much it belongs to the Agency. That's the thing that's going to have to take a while, and you're going to have to be involved as an organ that controls it, to help avoid any abuse, and in any case we want to be in that association, and we're not in that association because of the many failures that were made in the establishment of that organization at all, and now the story has already passed and we're moving on, but so pay attention to how we're going to do it after this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33396	Anyone else want a word? Parliamentarians Svetlana Stojanovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic submitted together to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33397	Let's get out of this fundamental topic of this law. The Democratic Party of Serbia proposes to delete the 34th, because it is meaningless and norms nothing. I'll read it - it's a section of the law relating to the rights of the author to the owner of a copy of the works, the right to access a copy of the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33398	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33399	This is not Mr Milan M. Nikolic from the SRS but a colleague from the SPS Milan J. Nikolic, but it is certainly a good amendment because it regulates the obligations of Article 35 of this law, that the seller, galleryist or organizer of the original copy of the piece, i.e. the manuscript that performs and sells and collects the price is responsible for what you, gentlemen of the ministry, ladies, have to contact you, this is very unusual, I have consulted our lawyers, the formulation, you said it is called the right to follow. I guess the right to inherit. It's not about whether or not someone's following something, I don't know how they came up with the idea of you formulating this member of the law. If, and my colleague, Momir Markovic, Professor Vojislav Seselj, of the daughter of our celebrated creator and, above all, an excellent lawyer, a Bokelj Serb, Laza Kostic, received from his daughter more than 10 years ago, only him, the possibility of using his copyrights and works that no one has ever printed, but for the first time after 50 years, a publishing house whose founder is our president, the publishing house of our party, then it is also normal for us to consider as legal followers, as it was meant to stand here, and Professor Seselj himself as a legal follower, the one who won free of charge and inherited copyright from Laza M Kostic, to be responsible for selling these works. That is how the ideology of Serbian nationalism is, parts, it is the original authorial work of Dr. Seselj, most of which are derived from the collected works on various topics from the beginning of the Serbs to the day of the late Laza M Kostic, but also with 10 volumes of his works individually printed and all legal branches concerned. Therefore, counterpart Milan J. Nikolic was right when he proposed to the government, and I do not know what the problem was to accept this, then the possibility of abuse is reduced that anyone who sells, exhibits or organises the sale of the original copy of the work, or the manuscripts of the author, is responsible for doing so and charges the sale price, not that someone will deal with the various speculations. Mr. Djokic talked about it, I only mentioned in one part that the original works of ours, above all by music performers, are being abused by the kind of mafia in this country by stamping them in huge quantities for only one euro and by doing so, these performers, the authors of these works, have been denied. Imagine if someone had thought to feel free to interpret the law, as you said here - the follow-up, or inheritance, and to sell how it comes and where it wants the original works of anyone's. Therefore, on the case of our publishing house of Greater Serbia, we know that we are taking great care of it, so this amendment should be accepted by colleagues Nikolic, so other publishing houses and those who organise should do so. I will tell you that in all municipalities in Serbia, and this is now continuing in Republika Srpska, and the day before that was the case in Milic, Vlasenica, we organised before the crowded halls the promotion of this original and life-long part of our president, the ideology of Serbian nationalism, which I repeat again, contains, in the most part, the summation of the works of Laza M. Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33400	Four minutes and 10 seconds of MP time were used. There are two minutes left for the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33401	Ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed to delete Article 5's position in Article 39 because I consider it meaningful, morally correct, but a solution that is not applicable in practice. I quote the proposed solution – in case of multiplication of copyright works by photocopying or by other means, the author has the right to additional compensation from the legal or natural person who made the photocopying. What does that mean in practice? That means, in practice, next. A few years ago, a well-known writer from the Great Plana, Ljubisa Jovanovic, who has been competing for the NIN award of the year, published a quality novel. It is likely that in the Great Plan or anywhere else in Serbia, someone is photocopying his novel, loaning from friends, from neighbors and photocopying to avoid buying it. It is necessary that the person who made the photocopy pay the fee to the author, however, it is practically inconclusive. Simply, who will and how will oversee the photocopiers in Serbia? That's not feasible. It's a completely pointless solution. The second senseless solution in paragraph 7, where it is prescribed that the owners of the photocopiers are obliged to provide information on the number of photocopies made at the request. In order for this solution to be applicable in practice, it would be necessary for each store that has a photocopier to employ two employees, one to hire a state to control law enforcement, the other to hire the owner of a photocopier. You have one practical situation, a customer can come along who photocopys five hundred songs from different authors. According to this law, as you suggest, when photocopying the owner of a photocopier or a photocopier who works in a photocopier, he is obliged to forget about all other customers, sit down and make a list of these copyright works he's photographed. He can close the store in the next hour. It is simply morally correct, meaningful, but not applicable in practice, and I believe that we in this congregation should only adopt those legal solutions that can be applied in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33402	25 seconds have been used by the MPs' group. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33403	Dear MPs, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Club, I have submitted an amendment to the draft copyright and related rights law, which we are discussing. Article 39 paragraph 7 of the said law should be deleted in the words 'as well as information on the number of copies made'. Regardless of the numerous consultations and public debates carried out on this law, as stated in its argument, it is obvious that the proposal did not take into account the concrete application of the legal provisions in practice. Is it possible, under this law, that the owner of each photocopier of the apparatus shall keep an official record of each photocopy, so that according to this proposal, the owner of each photocopier of the apparatus must make and submit a report to the competent authorities on the photocopy of an author's work, whether it is a song, a story, a novel, a sketch, a photocopier or another author's document, and if it is done only in one instance. I find that pointless and that those words should be deleted from the bill. We expected the legislators of this law to point out in more detail and more concrete terms the current application of the bill's proposal, both on the positive and negative effects that are present in this area. In fact, we are witnessing countless, even organized piracy, i.e. multiplication and sales of copyright works, primarily music and film works. It's almost every step of the way, on the street, in various shops and service shops. But we also don't know who are in cities and settlements, which organs, administrative, state, inspection, or what measures they're taking to stop this situation and get real and organized, on a legal basis. In light of this law, it states that a valid permit for the exercise of activity and related rights in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has four organisations based in Belgrade. Cities and local self-government in Serbia outside Belgrade seem to be exempt from performing these activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33404	The minute was used by the MP's group. Lidija Vukicevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a letter from Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33405	Ladies and gentlemen, I have in my hands the Law of Copyright and Related Rights, so we are specifically now talking about the right of the author to pay for the service in Article 40. The SRS is of the opinion that a member of the 40th should be deleted, for the reason that the solution is inapplicable in practice and that we consider it pointless. A member of the 40th Law says, "In the case of giving at the service of copies of works, except for accounting programs by a person whose business is a business, the author has the right to compensation from those persons". Why do we consider such a set-up pointless in law? For the simple reason that we do not know who should or who will keep records – who, who, who, who, in how many copies and what time did he give a copy of an author's work? Without great philosophy, it's just like that and it can't be proved, controlled. That is why we believe that a member of the 40th because of his senselessness – should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33406	The 45th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33407	Article 45, whose partial amendment was requested by this amendment, reads – it is allowed, without permission from the author and without payment of the copyright fee, multiplication of works by public libraries, educational institutions, museums and archives only for their own purposes and non-commercial purposes. We asked the amendment to replace the words "without the permission of the author" with the words "with the permission of the author or his legal follower". Uncontrolled multiplication of works, even by libraries, either by educational institutions, museums, and archives, should be introduced into some sort of flow of control. The only way to do this is to notify these institutions before multiplying the work, because it is always about multiplying the work on a larger scale, or requesting permission from the author or his legal follower. Otherwise, many abuses in practice can occur. We heard that when the work of an author is multiplied and it is distributed for non-commercial purposes, there is advertising of the one who does so, so it will certainly, in some later period, be it on the basis of this advertising and such advertising, gain a certain property benefit for itself, and at the expense or at the expense of the author himself. Call for Article 9. The Bernish Convention, it really doesn't make sense. This member speaks of certain rights that authors can limit themselves in certain situations, but in the state of Serbia as it really is, this member is absolutely inadmissible, i.e. there is no corruption and there are not so many hungry and poor, perhaps this could be applied, and otherwise it is impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33408	The 56th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33409	In paragraph 1, without the permission of the author, and subject to the obligation to pay the copyright fee, multiplication and marketing of copies, as well as other forms of public disclosure of articles published in other means of public notification, shall be permitted, provided that these articles relate to ongoing political and economic and political and religious issues. What's the issue with us and the SRS here? It is disputed that we believe that this right to advertise other people's articles should be limited. If this legal solution remains in force, then someone may be making a private newspaper, making their own list of texts from other newspapers. Secondly, for us the issue is why these limits copyright only to economic, political or religious issues. There is also a disputed second position – the obligation to pay compensation does not exist if, in the manner set out in Article 1, in the light of the review and several different comments contained in the articles, only short passages are used, from comments or articles. We simply believe that what the promoter really means by the term "short passages". This is especially important for the reasons we know, when selecting the passages of an article, in part, select the essential parts of that part and what is most qualitative. I think there may be a lot of abuse here. You know, someone can take a short passage to consider five sentences from a particular literary section, and someone can consider it to be 50 sentences, which depends on the length of the work and everything else. I simply feel it was necessary to carry out these two precisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33410	National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33411	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is a fundamental question – is it possible that the authorised minister of this law, Mr Djelic, could not attend any debate held in the Committee on Science and Technological Development, related to this bill, in the principle of this law and finally, when we speak individually of this law? There is, on behalf of the Government, Minister Ms. Snezana Markovic, who will probably not take the floor until the end of the debate and will not be agreed to accept any amendment, and we have also heard very good arguments here to accept these amendments. Now I am absolutely sure that this law, or the bill of this law, had no intention of solving a series of problems, and people in independent trade, you don't know it, but I know it well, because people in certain places are asking us to help them all together, although it's not in my jurisdiction, how and in what way to be freed from, I would say aggressive insults from some who are represented as being from SOKOJ, maybe even they are, to pay them, and even happen to have a certain number of economic operators being blocked for unsettled obligations in this account, and they have discounts on their guests or those who use their services and over 300, up to perhaps even 500, that they don't own any apparatus that they can broadcast certain copyrights. The essence of which is why we have submitted an amendment to Article 61, to delete, this member belongs to a group of transferable copyrights. This is not about inheritance at all, this is about transferring certain business entities dealing with certain activities, such as publishers, concert organizers, broadcasters and the like, which can charge them on their behalf, and then give them a certain portion of the funds. Practice shows, and this is the best testimony here in parliament, Mr Bane Djokic, that a very small part of the funds is paid to authors or performers by SOKOJ or by some other organisations. Organizations acting under the previous copyright law are a special story. I said at the beginning, by explaining the amendments to Article 14, how much one author received, and in the last year, the group S.A.R.S, whose song revolved on many radio stations and television channels, received only 16 and a half dinars on copyright. The composition was called "Buddly Swan." I'm afraid, with a government like this and such irresponsible ministers, that Serbian citizens will not be in a position very quickly to eat a flaccid bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33412	The SRS parliamentary group has used the time available to it based on the time of the parliamentary group, as well as the authorised representative. Before I give my word to MP Ivan Andric, authorised representative of the LDP parliamentary group, I shall inform the MPs, on the basis of Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that today we will work even after 1800 hours, by discussing amendments, or by searching the details of this agenda. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33413	I thought I'd wait for the amendment submitted by the LDP parliamentary group, but my predecessor in his presentation encouraged me to open perhaps the most important topic as soon as possible, so that we could get there by late tonight and get it over with, I hope. So I would like to say a few words about the very essence of the adoption of this law, that is, how his proposal was found in the congregation and what it was that preceded it. We deeply believe that the essence of this bill is an organised venture that has been going on for several years, which aims to introduce a monopoly in the payment of the rights of interpreters. I'll try in the next few minutes to quote what's been going on over the past few years, and convince you of that thesis. What's the situation now? The Copyright and Related Rights Act, which was adopted in 2004, is currently in force, if I am not mistaken. Before that there was the 1998 Law, which protected these rights. Interpreters who issued phonograms for Serbian citizens, therefore, anyone who is not a composer or author, and the interpreter has issued a CD, record, tape, whatever, had the opportunity to protect his rights individually or collectively. Individually, by excluding, for example, the case with Djordje Balasevic from any collective protection of its rights and it is his right, because he thinks he has the best way to achieve those rights. On the other hand, not wanting to offend anyone, but it's about little interpreters who didn't want to risk their rights being exercised and who delegated their rights to someone. In most cases, over 90%, it's about delegating rights to those so-called. producers, to simplify, therefore, to those who own their video. I totally understand that. Today, if I wanted to publish a music album, I wouldn't go into risk and any compensation to get 50 or 100 dinars for the next 10 or 20 years, as much as I believe my singing would deserve a year, but I'd try to get some more serious money at the beginning, and I'd hand over all those rights to whoever my producer is, who owns the video. In this way, things work in 75% of the countries in the world, in all EU countries, and I really don't know how they operate in some other non-democratic systems. Of course, after the adoption of this law in 2002, all those who called themselves the Organisation of the Producers of phonograms of Serbia, shortened OFFPS, so they are all organised into one joint association and they are entering into their association those rights that they have acquired by signing contracts with those with whom they have produced various albums, music CDs and so on. To break every dilemma about it, since I'm sure that's what it's going to be about, let me read who the members of this organization are. These are, from my corner: B 92 productions, then City Records, Dallas Records, Discos, Folkdisk, Gold Audio-video, Gorejsn, Grand Production, HI-FI Center, ITMM, Jugoisk, Juve Komertz, Komuna, Limark, Lucky Sound, Mag Media, Mask, it's Warner Brothers, Master Music, Megasaund, Melos market, Metropolis, Miligram, Inakod, Multimedia, Music Star, Power Music, PGP, until recently, we heard this, Soul Flauer, Sound Saleschn, Stars Music and Take it or Live it. So, all the ones we've ever bought a single disk that he's ever heard of and whose primary job this is, they're all within that organization. So, what's a substitute for thesis, it's that there comes a monopoly because it's not true, as I said, Djordje Balašević, if I'm not mistaken, before Bajaga and instructors, that I don't miss someone, but many great performers think that their rights can be better achieved and they are exempt either from SOKOJ or from this organization. The law so far meant that this organization or SOKOJ must send a letter so that it no longer protects them and that they will exercise their rights on their own. However, as always in Serbia, when there was a job that someone was capable enough to organise, to arrange 35 organisations, very different, they were able to agree to form a system and in some ways do it, not getting into whether it was good or bad, but they did it. There is, of course, someone who sees their chance in it, but not by offering better conditions through competition, but by making all the interpreters come to him in an organization through the law, so that their rights can be achieved and for that, they take a percentage of 30% of the value of the charge. So let me introduce you to some other definitions. There was something once called the Yugoslav author agency in Yugoslavia. It was a social firm back then, privatized in 2005. It was far from the eyes of the public, according to the applicable laws, away from the eyes of the public, but allow one interest. The company's initial price was around 30,000 euros. It was eventually privatised for a million and 100,000 euros. I'm sure it's a record. 35 times during the bidding, the company's value has been raised. He bought the company a consortium whose composition we don't know until today. When the questions were raised about who owned the company, we tried to go to the Business Registers Agency website. At the first moment there was a register, I call on all MPs to go to the Agency for Business Registers site now and they'll see one thing that's at least odd. Business Registers Agency's website has been stripped of ownership of the company. That information is no longer available to the public. But as we live in Serbia, when they scratched a little, they forgot to take down who's on the board of directors. I have this paper and some very interesting stuff in front of me. You know, the chairman of the board of directors is Ljiljana Rudić-Dinić, if I am not mistaken, the previous director of the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property and some man of ordinary name and an unusual last name - Aleksandar Cvetkovic. We have reason to believe it was Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic's son. Why is this company important? Because in 2007 a second agency was established, an organization called – The Right Interpreter of the so-called Interpreter. A PI firm, which is authorised by the Institute for Intellectual Property Protection, or a license to charge for an interpreter. The difference is one thing. This organization not only charges the right for interpreters who have issued the music CD, but also for everything else and for the pantomimeists, not to offend anyone now, the various organizations have come. However, since it is a new organisation that does not have any infrastructure, it is in its founding act, let me read it to you, throws one extremely strange thing. This is a quote from the organisation's statutes, article 43 - to carry out professional, administrative, technical and other activities within the organisation's work, an author's agency for Serbia, the former Yugoslav author agency, is engaged. Mirko Cvetkovic's company. The next step is the beginning of 2008, when the government of Vojislav Kostunica submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Copyright and Related Law. Guess what's the subject of these changes and additions, just what's on the agenda today. The government of Vojislav Kostunica has not survived for long, the proposal has withdrawn from the Assembly, and now in order not to get much attention, we have before us a proposal for a whole new law, a draft law on copyright and related law. From what I've said, as I've quoted to you so far, we deeply believe that the whole idea of passing this law is actually changing a few members. One of these changes implies the introduction of a full monopoly in the fee for the rights of interpreters. This law will require every interpreter to be a member of a collective organisation, if he wishes to exercise his rights, which, on his behalf, will exercise those rights for him in a single tariff. So, instead of being so far, that everyone will be able to choose whether these rights apply individually or collectively, this law is no longer possible individually. Only collectively will it be possible to exercise those rights. Not to be a little bit, since I remind you that this organization has been there for two years and no interpreter during that time has achieved that right through it, because it is simply not competitive, no one wants to do it through that organization, we are forced to discuss today a law that will take it away from anyone else and only give it to that organization. Just that organization. Today, an amendment to the Committee on Science and Industry has been adopted. The amendment says that unless the two organisations agree, since the law requires that it be only one, the Serbian government will decide who will be able to use this right. To be clear, Minister Bozidar Djelic, who fled from here and is not here, has set Mirko Cvetkovic up to decide between another firm and its company to pay for those rights. I've never seen a bigger conflict of interest than this, and I've been an MP for nine years. So, really believe that the Assembly is passing the law according to Bozidar Djelic's proposal, who has never answered this question once, not once, he is the applicant and that ministry is the applicant of this law, he was never here to defend him. When the law was in principle, another minister was again. So, we don't have a banal answer to the question -- why is Bozidar Djelic setting up the prime minister like that? From our point of view, it's amazing that the Prime Minister knows this and that's what he's up to. In order to understand what level of money, since I think both MPs and citizens should be most interested, this is about 200 000 euros a year with expenses. I can't imagine that the prime minister of one state is able to do all this to earn five percent, which is part of his ownership organised by the Yugoslav Copyright Agency, now the Copyright Agency, to earn five percent, when the cost of 200,000 euros per year is deducted. Really, given that I believe that anyone who becomes Prime Minister is a rational man, I am so forced to believe that it is Mirko Cvetkovic, and I can't imagine that he is involved in this with his own will. That's why I'm so sorry that Bozidar Djelic is not here today. When we asked the question and when there was a question in the public of conflict of interest which is undeniable, because this is not about the amount of money that the prime minister is about to earn, it's not about at all, there is a conflict of interest, even if it's about to earn a dollar. We argue that he earns much more, since the consortium, which is owned, stands in the paper, I don't know if it's true, the property of CES MEKONA, is also owned by Mirko Cvetkovic. It's not about the amount of money, it's about the government, whose head is one man, proposing a law that gives the company a monopoly that never existed. It's really amazing and unacceptable for the MPs to even talk about it. We have submitted amendments, our amendments have, of course, been rejected. The other thing is a monopoly. Monopoly never existed before. You could have chosen, if you were an interpreter, in which way you would have your private property, your basic rights to protect. These are your rights. You, if you do a number, it's yours. We are now adopting a law that requires you to waive that right, no matter how and how these rights are used, the compensation for the use of those rights will be used. The second argument we heard in an unmistakable statement by Mirko Cvetkovic is that the new solution to the law is European. Very interesting. I have before me a letter from a director of something called "IEFPR". It's an international phonogram producer organisation. In order to get to know the Assembly a little bit about that, since these are not exactly the terms that are famous, it will be increasingly known here, it is an organisation that has been preventing Bulgaria from entering the EU for two years, because forged drives were being made, compact disks. It's an organization that works with the World Trade Organisation and other organisations, protecting the rights of the phonogram manufacturer. She writes in that letter that she represents more than 1,400 companies from 70 countries around the world. Everyone's here you've ever heard of, the phonogram manufacturers are in on it. This letter was sent to Bozidar Djelic, Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic and the US Embassy, saying the pro-European bill is anti-European. This means, gentlemen and gentlemen, that we will have to change this law in the process of European integration. Today we bring it in, and we know it's not European, and we know that we're going to have to replace it in the next six months, a year, two years or three. Only one person, or two, claim that he is European. It is Bozidar Djelic and Mirko Cvetkovic. One of them owns the agency, and the other one's the proposer of this law. Who's gonna pay that price? I ask, for example, my colleague Mom, from the Committee on European Integration, when we go somewhere next time, how are we going to answer this question, when we go to convince the Dutch Parliament, that Serbia is one democratic country that does everything we need, based on which the Dutch Parliament decides to block our Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You think that's how it's gonna go? If this country wants to be a part of Europe, it cannot afford such things. She can't. This is beyond all the abuses I was talking about at the beginning. There's proof, there's a letter. In our knowledge, this is the third letter sent by the director of the organization to the lawmaker, Bozidar Djelic. Do you think he's good enough to get an answer from our science minister? No, I don't. Our Minister for Science, Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration, is not interested in this topic. He's not interested in this subject. He put in front of him some other interest -- or a compromise of the prime minister, which we believe, or something else. Unfortunately, he's not here to explain to us why he does such things. Of course, we'll talk more about these amendments that we've submitted, but please, it's not too late to either accept the amendments, or to withdraw this law from the procedure before it causes some different and more serious consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33414	The time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group and minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group has been used. The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has the word, and the People's MP Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33415	I'd like to rely on what Mr. Andric said. I don't just see why the surprise in his speech is because a letter has been received that it is a law contrary to European standards. It's nothing strange about this government. I'm not surprised. Simply, they have been full of promises since the May 2008 pre-election campaign, which is full of the EU's mouth. Not all of them, some said at the time, in the campaign, that Mladic should not be arrested but that prosecutor Vukcevic should be arrested, so they entered that government and became Euromerclic at once, the largest, so he will probably vote for this law, although it is quite the opposite of everything the EU is, but also of everything that can be called moral. The amendments have been submitted, a large number of parliamentary groups have submitted, and we have submitted several amendments as parliamentary groups, only one has been adopted. However, our opinion is that this bill cannot be corrected by amendments. The only thing that makes sense right now is that the government of the Republic of Serbia is withdrawing this law from the procedure. I can't even explain to myself why we're sitting here today discussing this bill, in the days when we have a DRI report on just 27% of the government's sample, and imagine that there's a DRI capacity to check 100% government work, 100% check the work of public enterprises, 100% check the work of institutions, local self-government, local public enterprises. I don't know who'd be sitting in that government any more and who'd even be allowed to appear in front of the citizens if all of this were to be made public in the right way and could be done in the right way, but then. Instead of discussing the report, instead of discussing the 2008 final account, instead of discussing the 2009 budget rebalancing, we are waiting for Friday afternoon to start a debate on the 2010 budget and discuss this law. It is clear that this law is passed only because of the interests of those who are at the Yugoslav Copyright Agency. Among them is Prime Minister Mr Cvetkovic. Yes, it is true what Mr. Andric said, that during the period of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, for the first time this bill passed the government and was to come into the assembly procedure, but those of the other government of Vojislav Kostunica, in which most of them had DS, for one minister more than all the others in the government, where the finance minister was Mr. Cvetkovic. To inform Mr. Andric, but also everyone else, it was the ministry that proposed the law. Now he is not the Prime Minister proposing the law, but he is the proponent Djelic. Well, why isn't he here? Because it's not his bill. That's why he's gone. This bill is a bill that is in the interest of Prime Minister Cvetkovic. Is it five, ten, 100,000 euros, one million euros, I don't know, we're not getting into it. It's probably big money, maybe not for him personally, but for a company that owns five, six, seven percent shares, it's probably also those who are co-owners in that company of some kind of his associates. There's probably some interest there, too. In any case, this law is one of the more scandalous or worse ones, which even shows the last intention, which has ever entered this parliament and urgently needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. It has nothing to do with the European standard. Look, as counterpart Andric read about this world organisation that has stalled Bulgaria's entry into the EU, I will tell you that Bulgarians had to step on pirated discs in the markets of their streets, but literally tanks to trample them, to fight in such a way to join the EU. I know of one case three years ago, I think it was in 2007, when our famous group of Unbelief Babies released her last album. They sold the first circulation in the first day, PGP RTS issued, a small circulation, but the same evening a pirate appeared on the streets of Belgrade. At ten o'clock in the morning, however, no disk was left on the streets of Serbia, because police responded immediately and immediately did what her job was. In such a way and on the ground, in part, they later sold several more editions of the CD compact. They managed to protect them. That's what I said. Everyone was able to be protected at the time. Maybe not all of them, maybe it didn't work out 100%, but it fought. Remember what happened in front of SKC, how many gigs there were with the sale of pirate CDs, audio carriers, movies, pictures, etc. Is that what it is today? No, but that's why there's a Prince Michael in cardboard boxes and elsewhere. Then we wonder why our movies are empty. We must protect in the first wave at least our performers, artists, if nothing else. We have companies dealing with film distribution, the right to broadcast movies. You've got seven e-Government companies in the world, covering over 90% of what's called the financial film market. The music and film industry in the United States is still in the ten most developed. I think it's movie third, and music fourth or fifth in power. And they're fighting it. I don't know if you know the data, but 450,000 Chinese pirate CDs are sold daily only in Los Angeles. So there's a fight going on, but there's a fight going on. There's nothing here today. There's still a bill like this. You're full of the EU's mouth, but when it comes to doing something, doing what's important to change our society, there's nothing. Now you're going to say, visa liberalisation, defrosting of the trade agreement. Visa liberalisation, so here's the answer to Vozdovac, the visa liberalisation that I've been told you about, in the debate on passports, no one has denied it, no one has said it wasn't like that, nor has the minister who was here, that 95% did the first government of Vojislav Kostunica and Dragan Jocic as interior minister. Yours was just to sit down and welcome that visa liberalisation with a year of delay, with two scandals with the printing of passports. This bill of law is really amazing. I repeat, he literally only goes in the interest of the Prime Minister, obviously. That's why it is Proposer Bozidar Djelic, not someone else. This is why he was proposed by the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of 2008, i.e. Mr. Cvetkovic, the election didn't make it to the agenda, but now I'm going to hurry. What's he worth, and when he gets here, and if we ask him that question, he looks up at the ceiling and doesn't answer a single question. He knows how to say that no one has committed a crime in the government, as far as the DRI report is concerned, and if so, we don't know, I guess we should wait to see if any criminal charges will be filed. When such a thing is said by the Prime Minister who elects prosecutors, at a time when no judges have been elected, there is no telling who will be the judge from January 1st, so let me see that prosecutor who, when filed with the state's auditor, will respond. I say again, your mouth is full of the EU. Promises not to talk. It passed in November, what about "Fiat" that Tadic and Dinkic will see in Italy a new model. There's nothing. Now I'll tell you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's very interesting, the citizens of Serbia will get from selling NIS five shares worth 500 dinars. That's 2,500 dinars. What about the 1,000 euros promised? Nothing, 200,000 employees, salaries, pensions on 11 April 2011, in fact on April 1, I apologize, in April, they may be able to be defrosted. Let's not talk about 70% of the average salary at the time you made government, when it was 400 euros. It's 300 euros now. If you stayed at 60%, if you hadn't touched anything, if you hadn't been messing around, if you hadn't made this government and the disaster of the country, 60% of 400 euros is more than 70% of 300 euros. You've chosen such a government, you're retired, gentlemen, which I'm looking at right now, in the story of pensions, you've made a government. So what was it? Will there be responsibilities? Who will be responsible for this bill? Will you vote for something like this, you who are for the EU? Will you vote for something like this? This is really incompatible, absolutely incompatible. A major conflict of interest, absolutely incompatible. It would be best if the government withdraws this law, if the real Prime Minister told Cvetkovic, or said, as he usually likes to speak, and that is Mr Tadic - did not work well, and neither did the first among them, withdraw the bill, so that the bill should be withdrawn, or that we should vote against it right now in principle, that we should not embarrass ourselves as parliament, that we should not be exactly the constant servants of the interests of the executive government. I think it is possible to think about it and to send a message to this government once already, which really works contrary to the interests of Serbian citizens. Now they say -- there's the DSS guy, he's talking about the EU. Who else? We paid the highest price by changing society and working to make Serbia a part of the EU someday. We are asked a question – are we for the EU? We did. It's not a question. We worked every day in two governments, we worked much more concretely, which has proved to be a lot of examples than this government does. We never told the citizens and made things better, but the way they are. The only thing we asked the EU to say – what is it for Serbia? That's all. Anyone who asks us - is the DSS for Serbia to be in the EU one day, I am answering it now - yes, and are you, who are asking us to ask the EU what Serbia is for them and what is Serbia? We have the right to suspect that they do not consider Serbia as it is written in our Constitution, because if they give us through visa liberalisation, if the Schengen zone applies only to us in Serbia, and not to the citizens living on KIM, it is responsible for us only means that they do not consider KIM an integral part of Serbia. Please, it's all what we say to all those who are seriously involved in politics in Serbia, that's all – let's sit down with the EU to talk about what is for them Serbia. Then, when that is clear, we will be able to define ourselves nicely, together with our citizens, whether we are going and in what way in the EU. Until then, it is important that we change our society, it is important that we bring it into line with these standards, not because of the EU, not because of EU membership, but because of the modern Serbian state, because citizens live better in it and because every citizen in Serbia can normally, live honestly from their work. That's what's important and that's what we do here. That should be our goal, that's all we need. No one will ever give us, wherever we are, and in the EU, it's a mistake to tell citizens – we'll get this, we'll get it. We won't get anything, there's no bread for nothing, but we'll be in a system where we can have certain things together, but we'll have to make our contribution, too. In order for us to contribute as Serbs should contribute to Europe, we need to be able to do so. In order to be able to do that, we need to change society. To change society, we have to vote against this law, not put our heads down and keep our mouths shut about the interest of the Prime Minister, whoever it is. We have to vote against this law. Whoever's a MP here, not an MP of his own party or some party majority, must vote against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33416	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my earlier address, I told one truth – the Interpreter's Organization, and the Yugoslav author's agency did not receive a single fee from the collection of a single fee. To be clear here, Mirko Cvetkovic not as the owner, but as one... Please, Momo, can you just keep it down a little bit? I don't bother anyone while he's talking, I'd like to collegiately ask you to ask me to...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33418	Please, MPs, leave the warning of the MPs to the chairman and continue your presentation, and I ask the MPs not to receive and warn MP Mom Markovic not to violate Article 104. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33419	It is not about whether maybe once, and I never say, the shareholder of the Yugoslav author agency, who became a few years ago, until I know whether he was also the finance minister or what he was, would get 1,000 or 2,000 or 5,000 euros. I'm saying he won't. This is about the following – where are the ten million euros that the phonogram organisation has charged over the past few years, establishing an independent single tariff paid by concert organizers, hotelers, hairdressers, caterers, etc.? And here, it's incredibly logical to replace the thesis that, once, perhaps, the Interpreter's Organization, if it gets the right to charge that compensation, it'll be a monopoliest. In doing so, this law very clearly lays down rules that whether it remains phonograms or interpreters, as this money will be shared, that money has not been shared so far. This is ten times what Branimir Djokic is talking about, the interpreters say. It is not true, Mr. Andric, that Mr. Gjorge Balašević has made an exception. Djordje Balašević gave up his copyright to avoid problems, polemics and clashes, and some had and solved their problem with beatings, we remember from a few years ago. Many authors, in order to avoid just digging in courts, have persecuted themselves, etc., have waived their rights. This law, I am also very sorry that there is no Mr. Djelic here or the competent minister, because these two ladies who are very competent would explain very well and clearly, with the authority of someone who has been dealing with these issues for years – why these are collective rights and why they cannot be charged individually, that this fee for interpreters and authors is being introduced. I have to say, personally, I had no idea about both of these organizations until the moment we were as a Committee on Culture and Information, along with the Committee on Science and the Chairman of the Science Committee, organized a public debate and then realized what this was all about. There's really a monopoly here. Speaking of which, it is not clear to me – why Mr Ivan Andric appears when we are on the amendment to Article 62, I do not see well, this refers to Article 197, says here – which in the same text was submitted by Ivan Andric and Suzanne Grubjesic. The same text of the amendment was received by some other parliamentary groups, I can't claim everything from the same organisation, the phonogram producer's organisation, even a few months ago, completely identical. The DS didn't submit the amendment, the SPS filed, so he withdrew the amendment. These two amendments remain in the same text. Look at the wonders, since Mr. Andric, skillfully manipulating the data he has, is on the one hand who the founders are, so when he reads the list of who the founders of the phonogram organization are, you have nothing to add. You have to admire and say, well, there's everybody. We just heard the PGP stepped forward. I don't know what B92 status is, but when it mentions the Yugoslav author's agency or an interpreter's organisation, it doesn't mention who the founders are, it mentions who the board of directors are. Let's mention who the board of directors of the phonogram is, because there's a Cvetkovic there, these interpreters are irrelevant, it's only important that the board of directors of the Yugoslav Copyright Agency, which, my people, the interpreters' organisation signed a contract with them, there's no money and there's no way to organise its infrastructure. When under this law, regardless of whether they charge compensation or get their share of phonograms, they will have their percentage, they will be able to pay employees, pay for electricity, water, heating, computers, they will not have to hire anyone to do the job for them, as at this time they have hired the Yugoslav Copyright Agency, which did not pay the dinar, because there is no money. Mr. Andric lists the founders of the Yugoslav Copyright Agency, who has absolutely nothing to do with this law, and does not list the board of directors, so "Siti Records" - Branislav Stojanović, "Maskon" - Slobodan Nesović, ITM - Petar Djurić, "Comuna Production" - Maksim Ćatović, "Grand Production" - Aleksandar Popovic. Look wonders, all of them are also members of the Assembly and behold, this board member Petar Đurić is also the director who writes to us MPs a letter to actually change the provisions of Article 127 and retain the right of phonograms to continue to charge the only compensation they have, I repeat, to determine for themselves. I don't care if the organisation of a phonogram or an interpreter's organisation, as the law provides, to agree, to sign a contract, I really don't care which one of them will continue to do this job, what I'm interested in, is that everyone, interpreters and phonogram manufacturers, of course, and those who do, of this income get what they own and, most importantly, that the users, and they are already numbered, concert organizers, hotelers, hairdressers, hosts also get the first time in this law to participate in the formation of a tariff, get the right to be members of the Commission for Copyright and to influence the economic aspect of the very unique compensations that many have come, so to say, to exceed the gift. So, what's the story here, I'm sorry that many people haven't realized, I don't know if they'll ever understand me, what happened to two million from the previous year, what happened to I don't know how many millions and hundreds of millions of euros from the previous few years, and I have no doubt that the rules establishing this law will be excessive in the future because the law very precisely defines what will be further with compensation. I sincerely hope that these compensations, precisely because of these users and because of the way they will be formulated, will be far less than they are now. What it was was a lack of law, and I was involved in formulating this amendment, that's what if these two organizations don't agree. The minister will propose to the government that one of them does it, but whoever's doing it has nothing to do with it anymore. Whatever organisation it does has rules that establish this law, has a tariff on which it gives its opinion or decides the Government's Copyright Commission, so it becomes irrelevant, neither will anyone be able to get rich, nor will they be able to spend that money on compensation as it comes to mind, because there will be rules. So far, there has been no such thing, and for me, the culmination of antiquity is to say that there was no monopoly, and only now, perhaps, one day, if they are these, there will be a monopoly. This law abolishes the monopoly, this law democratically provides for agreement and signing of a contract. This law lays down clear rules for the use of this compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33420	Nine minutes and 33 seconds have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. It's available for two minutes and 30 seconds. The MPs Ivan Andric and MP Dragan Šormaz spoke again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33421	Several times this name was mentioned. What I was saying was wrongly interpreted. To start with Mr. Shormaz, although we now agree on a lot of things, we cannot agree that the government was pro-European, since for us much greater progress is made when visa liberalisation is obtained than when the embassy is burned, so there is no doubt that Serbia today is more European than it used to be. The fact that you knew at the time that Mirko Cvetkovic was passing that law and you didn't react, which frees you, exactly, you and Kostunica's government? It seems to me that when you're on this side, then you react to what you see is abuse, which I welcome, but my question concerns why you didn't react at the time. When you talk about the Leader, we still had Sunday's election, for example in Kostolc. Why is this not a rapper for how the country's Europeanisation policy affects public opinion? Believe it's a lot of influence. Everyone uses what they have to do, to everyone, and to Vozdovec and Kostolc, every honour for the number of votes won, and that's the case, but don't abuse it. As for these things, I think we, Mrs Mojovic, agree on a lot of things. I don't hide, and in any way I manipulate, we're from all those who do this in the country getting cried out that someone else is trying to kidnap and that someone else is using their political power to kidnap. It is not that, of course, that Mirko Cvetkovic has so far earned nothing because he is not competitive, and that is why it is necessary to pass a law which will order everyone to go to him, regardless of what has been going on for two years, no one wanted to go to him. No interpreter went there because he was unhappy here. That's why he had zero, and the monopoly is being introduced, of course it's being introduced because now everyone's going to have to go to one organization, so far they didn't have to if those two organisations didn't agree. Well, of course he won't make a deal. The owner of one of those two will decide to charge. Let us have no doubt as to which one will be identified. One more thing to tell you, even if this OFFS was elected, an organization of phonograms, is that a minor problem for the state? That's how you introduce a monopoly. We'll be against this, too. There's no way an organization can charge for it. Everyone has to have a choice about how they protect their private property, they want it individually, they want it collectively, they don't want to protect it, they don't care about their property, they want to burn it or they want to make millions. That's the basic thing, basic human rights is private property. Now you're stuck in it, you're saying that he has no right to have the property to possess it. You're deliberately banalizing. He has no right, but we, the great brains, will say that the best thing he will use, and that is what is wrong, so the selected company of Mirko Cvetkovic, will be selected by the firm of those you spoke of. One difference is only significant, at the head of this one company there is a prime minister, and the other company is private and it doesn't matter if the prime minister has earned something, but it's important that the prime minister or someone else in his name wants to take something from someone who earns it, and if it makes it in a bad way, then it's not this law, there are other laws in this country, there's a law on economic societies, there's a Criminal Law, it's a misdemeanor. You're saying that since five of some interpreters there are not happy to give the prime minister, he knows best how to handle it. I'm sorry, let someone disagree. Let us disagree, as we did not agree with the burning of the embassy, we will not agree with this either and the fact that yesterday's unblocked agreement does not give anyone the right to put a new plunger in Serbia's European path, so that we have to discuss this clip again in six months and then have no quorum again, so that you come to LDP to look for quorum, so that Serbia does not endanger its European institutions. And not to mention, in the paper, which is your science minister's strategic partner, the press daily, lies about some 50,000-euro kitchens. How many kitchens will Mirko Cvetkovic buy from this? Come out and say it. What? Please, the chairman, I have kept my mouth shut and listened carefully to my words interpreted in the wrong way. (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to earn. Now I'm being threatened here. What is it now, you're untouchable? Bozidar Djelic, Mirko Cvetkovic? Was that what it used to be? We tell you, against every monopoly of Miskovic, Beka, and Mirko Cvetkovic, and OFFS, LDP will fight. We don't share monopolies on whether someone's ours at the head of that monopoly or someone else's, so ours is great, he knows how best to do it, and this other one sucks. I'm telling you one more time, you're breaking what's a European standard in several ways. The first way is by introducing a monopoly. Another way, much more fundamentally wrong and what scares us the most, introduces a restriction on the availability of private property, by making people use their private property the way you think they should. This is a fundamental misunderstanding between the EU and European values. That's why this is a much greater indicator and symbol than the real consequences of this law. Who's going to get 200,000 euros? This congregation has no time to deal with these matters. There's no time to deal with a much more important DRI report. Don't be greedy about preventing Serbia from being Europeanised. No one has the right to do that, either by the OFFS decision or by the Yugoslav authoring agency. That's why you won't have any support.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33422	Six minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's MP Dragan Šormaz has the word, and the People's MP Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33423	He can do it from the time of the parliamentary group. Mrs Mojovic, you said yourself, if these two organisations don't agree, the democratic agreement will be in the government, so the government will decide. Read the stenogram, what you said. In one of these organisations is the board of directors of the son of Mirko Cvetkovic, and then the government will decide which one will work. Where's the market? How come there's no monopoly? How do we know there'll only be two of them? How do we know a new organization won't be established? This is all the opposite of what the EU is. You're wrong, and you don't have to do this. You're making a monopoly completely unnecessary and it's very complicated. Why is this law even premature? It's even premature, because what should have been prepared has not been prepared. You're not doing the other part of the job I was talking about at all. Who's protecting? I've told you the example that "Faithless Babies" sold their last album in stores. Zeljko Joksimovic recorded a new album with 300,000 sound carriers. How does he sell it? With cell phones? Why isn't a man going to the market? Where's the market? Because the market doesn't exist. It's not protected. Who's responsible for that? You. You're the executive authority. Because a man can't sell in a store, because he'll be on the street right away, he'll be sold pyrotically. Because you're not doing anything about it. It needs to be solved first. That's the kind of thing you need to solve. The movies are empty. We're complaining that the movies are empty. Our young people are going to the cafes. No one goes to the movies. Drugs, junkies. What are you protecting film distributors with? I said there are seven company managers. Where Disney comes in, there's a safe market. Where's Disney with us? No way. He's never signed a contract with anyone. Only cartoons in the government, but not this way. As for what Mr. Andric said about the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the DSS, you forgot to tell the mosque, you said only the embassies. It's a little too much already. Let's think about it. Serbs in Kosovo are being attacked, Serbian sanctity is on fire at KIM and instead of being "Si-En" or "Bi-Bi-Si" and other Western media is the main news, suddenly burning the mosque in Belgrade, so it becomes the main news, not what happens to Serbs at KIM. Or, a magnificent rally with half a million people, the organiser was the DS who participated in the government, Djilas was there, Djelic was there, Sutanovac was there, Tadic was not there. He had to go to Romania urgently, I don't know what happened, what drove him there. Maybe he knew what was going to happen. Why don't you ask him about it sometime? They were the majority in the government when it happened. He was the president of the state. Why do you keep asking us that question? Instead of showing up that rally, walking to the temple, what's showing up? Ignition of the embassy. Who's interested in that? Serbia? Or was it an interest to show up to those who were against Serbia at that time and when did this happen? Not to show that Serbia is a victim, but that Serbia is a problem? There's nothing to do with what you said. It has nothing to do with the DSS. Whoever was involved in this... After all, the investigative authorities are here, let it be established and stop talking about it once. It doesn't matter, I'm telling you. Think about what I said. Of course it's a good thing we got visa liberalisation. It was supposed to happen in 2008, a year ago. All the way to the road map were made by Dragan Jocic and Vojislav Kostunica, whether you admit it or not. While you were pulling out your tail, they were working. Do I have to explain what's been done? Do I need to show you again what's been done? It was supposed to take over the border from the army. Border police, do you know how long it took to do that? I.A.P.D. They had three years of power, why didn't they introduce internal police control? They didn't do it. It's just been done by Dragan Jocic, so the new Law on Police, the Law on Reading, and then all the arrangements, then the Law on ID cards, the Law on travel documents. Everything that should have been done on that road was done then. They were just supposed to print passports and make two affairs with it. A year later, we got visa liberalisation. We didn't have that. While you're throwing it like that, and no one's warning you, then let me say that border police at the border with Kosovo were not in our time. The gendarmes are there, the army is there, not the border police. There's now a protocol signed with Eulex. President, on September 16th, I'm going to ask that as a question, I asked in the original text that protocol. I didn't get it until today. He hasn't been published anywhere. He's nowhere to be found. Even now, I'm saying, I have new information, and in one of the daily lists it's written in the bandry brackets, the word as a question of the border. That's not true. The agreement says "boarder cross line." That's why they won't let us see him. All those who are for the EU should say, and we from the DSS are, but let's see with the EU what Serbia is for them, because the protocol says they do not seem to see Kosovo as part of Serbia. Visa liberalisation, how visas are given, to have citizens who are obviously discriminated against in relation to us, and our citizens are also Albanians at KIM. Thaci can't get our passport and it's worth it. As far as we're concerned, he's supposed to be arrested, but a man can't travel there, and he has the right to be our citizen. We don't have it today. We don't. Why? The will of the EU. We want to join the EU. Let me just tell you what Serbia is for them and it's no problem at all. These stories about embassies, mosques, etc., forget it. That's not true first, and secondly, it matters who does what. They don't do anything, and even when they do, here's what they do -- once again, I ask you to do it completely unnecessaryly in one part. So, it's better to withdraw this bill, and that's a normal, step by step, than one day, fast. You see, soon this government will fall too. This law will have to be put out of force, to make changes and supplement, to spend people's money again, to lose the day again, as it is today that the day is lost. Instead of talking about the audit, about the 2009 budget, instead of talking about the 2010 budget, about the 2008 final account, what are we talking about? Is the government going to democratically decide which agency is going to do a certain job and make some small money?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33424	Mrs. Gorica Mojovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33425	I apologize first for throwing Mr. Ivan Andric away, simply because some of his claims that they weren't dangerous would be ridiculous. So, the continued insistence that unless an agreement between the two organisations is reached, the government will decide on two organisations on a proposal, the owner of one is Mirko Cvetkovic, which is completely pointless, is first not true. So, the law does not recognise the Yugoslav authoring agency as an actor of compensation stories. A unique compensation should be agreed to sign a contract between two organisations, phonogram producers and interpreter organisations. And according to certain rules, they're going to collect that compensation, I've already said, one hundred times, and they're going to be distributed on the basis of certain criteria. In case that does not happen, if the contract is not signed, the minister will propose to the government, which of those two, a phonogram producer organisation or an interpreter organisation, will charge a single compensation. The principles share those compensations are laid down by law. That's one thing. The second thing, it really does seem extremely trendy, I would say in thought, and I don't want to judge the background of everything, keep mentioning -- owner, owner, owner, owner, owner of the Yugoslav Copyright Agency, someone who has 5% of the stock. In doing so, I am absolutely sure, if the interpreters' organisation finally exercises its right to, on behalf of those interpreters who have established it, make some revenue, of course, it will not require any additional contract that administrative services for it are provided by anyone, whether SOKOJ, whether the Yugoslav author agency. She'll pay herself, hire people and pay her own expenses. Therefore, if Mr Andric says, I claim and repeat - I do not care and think of most MPs who will charge that compensation, it is much more important to me how it will be formed and how many users will have an impact on it and how this copyright commission will control it. That's important, that's what's actually going to affect all these users, the hotelers, the concert organizers, the hairdressers, the bars, etc. Mr. Andric says - it doesn't matter to me either, but also to this organization of phonograms. What, then, has the amendment in which it insists that compensation be collected by a phonogram producer’s organisation, i.e. to continue the existing situation? If we all don't care, this is an excellent solution to the law. If we all think it is important to establish rules, and I think this law is establishing, let them agree, let them try once in Serbia to make arrangements, not to arbitration either the minister or the government. I think there's enough smart people in one organization and another to try it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33426	The word is Mr. Ivan Andric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33427	A few things. First, of course, the law does not know the Yugoslav author agency, owned by Mirko Cvetkovic. I'm sorry, I don't know how else to call someone who does, even if it's 5% of the stock, but the owner. That's why I use that word. If there's anyone else, it'd be great to know. In which, 5% is public, there are 60 left and some percent owned by some consortium that is not defined, and on the Agency for Business Registers site is not possible, it is possible for any other economic operator in Serbia to determine who owns it, even for "Pres", for example, and for some, however, for this Yugoslav author agency, these data are not available. I'm sorry, I'm appealing to the people of the APR so-called. to allow us to see who the owners are. I don't have those agencies, the government will choose between the organisation of the rights of interpreters and OFPS, but in the statute of the organisation of the right of interpreters under Article 43, the statute of the firm states that it is being done by the Copyright Agency, the Yugoslav Copyright Agency. That's worse. So he's not directly involved in it, he's hiding behind some organization that right now requires without any resources to do so. She can't do that, but she will hire another firm to do it for her and the owner of the company she will hire is Mirko Cvetkovic. Now let's be perfectly clear. I'm sorry, but I don't think I'm manipulating it, but it's manipulation on the other side, because this is about matter that isn't easy to explain. We see in that the danger and organization of this whole business. Why does it matter? Why does one have to? I'm telling you, she didn't have to do one so far, and they could exercise their individual rights. Now they're forbidden to exercise individual rights and they have to do one. I don't know if that can sound more pointless than we've heard now. So we have two companies, one is the property of the prime minister, the other is the property of private companies that are dealing with the team for 20, 30, 35, 40 years. Among the two organisations, the government will decide whose head is the owner of one of these companies. What's the definition of conflict of interest if it's not? What's the motive of this interpretation rights organization to deal with this other one? What's the motive? If they know what's at the end of that road, their owner will decide whether they will collect the proceeds. They wouldn't be rational, they wouldn't be people if they acted differently. Our problem is that you put it in the law. That's what abuse is about. What's that for in the law? Why do all the people who exist, who have issued phonograms, have to give up something that suits them? If it didn't suit them, in the last two years, at least one of them would have gone to the one that owns Mirko Cvetkovic. None of them crossed. Since no one has crossed for two years, the Assembly needs to pass the law so that everyone has to cross. I don't know what else. I'm telling you again, yes, the amendment we received from this international organisation AFP and from the organisation of the domestic OFFS. We've received amendments from them, every MP's group has won. We put up with them. What's the problem? That's everyone, I read who's standing there, on the one hand is all those who do the job. And who's on the other side? An organisation that does not have the resources and structure to do so and which is engaged in the structure by the political power company, which it expects to make a decision on. Can't it be more banal than that? For what? For 200,000 euros. Prime Minister, think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33428	Mrs. Gorica Mojovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33429	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I ask that we interrupt this debate. There are no proposing representatives here, I do not feel invited, nor competent to defend this law as the authorised representative of my parliamentary group in the manner that the promoter can do, well founded, seriously and to fully adjudicate what Mr Ivan Andric claims. That's not my job either. I don't think he's telling the truth, I don't think he's interpreting the law the right way. The job of the promoter is to explain the law, to say what is essentially. We don't have a proposing here, and I know that the two ladies sitting here know very well what this is all about, but they don't have the right words, and I'm asking you best to stop this debate because we don't have a proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33430	Mr. Shormaz by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33431	It's really amazing. I have to call Article 104. Mrs Mojovic has been a member of parliament for many years, and I find this amazing. What is it that we are discussing about the law is to blame that there are no legislators, and now to end the debate, and what are we going to do when we stop the debate? When do we get the budget? Is that how you run the country? Well, why isn't there any of the promoters? Well, because they don't know how to defend him. It may not be clear to you, but it is as Mr. Andric tried to explain it to you and as I say all the time. That's right. You have one organization that doesn't have any resources and hires Mr. Cvetkovic's company who owns, whether he had one, five, 60, 75% irrelevant, owns as much stock as he owns, rents a company where they're all in, and now they're going to like to agree -- there won't be any need for arbitration in the government, just where Cvetkovic is prime minister. And now that's unclear, you can't defend it, but you need someone from the government. Well, if someone wanted to defend him, they would have come, but they're counting, and I told you at first, we defend Parliament, we defend ourselves from these, if they won't pull back. They're counting on 126 to vote, they're counting on it. Let's show them they can't do that. For once, let's do something that's in the interest of citizens as a parliament. If that government does the opposite, you don't have to tear them down, you don't have to change them, it won't fall because of one law, but if they don't pull the law, vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33432	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zoran Ostojić has his word. Otherwise, just one piece of information, Mr. Chiplic will enter the Assembly at any moment, since he was in one meeting, so there is no reason to interrupt the session. Mr. Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33433	Madam President, I think the injured member is the 29th in the claim, the earlier Mrs Mojovic. Look what she said - I am right, MP Andric is wrong, the two ladies sitting there who do not have the right to speak well know that I am right. You know what it's called right? Indicating. That's an argument, because they can't speak then, they know I'm right, that means I'm right. No, Mrs Mojovic, you're wrong, you're not Mrs Mojovic's right. I understand your nostalgia for time commissions, committees, etc. So that's why you're proposing now that some government commission determines interpretation rights, but that time has passed irrevocably. The market, the agreement, the competition, that's what's waiting for us in Europe, and you belong to the ruling majority that's pro-European. We want the market and the competition, not that the government determines, the government's commission or the ministry's commission all that stuff. And that's what I'm saying for the citizens, to be simple, and I'm, when I say "prost," I don't mean "prost". You know what, if Mrs Mojovic's artists, the interpreters who participate in your campaigns aren't enough, but now you want to get others into it, then let the bar in that competition, so let the artists members and supporters of the DS make their own, let the artists of the folkers make their own and that's at least some competition. You're trying to monopolize. Don't laugh, you know who's behind this organization that was founded two years ago – it's very well known. Now you're trying to get everyone in there to have an impact on culture. (President: Time. ) A time in which such an influence, I finish the sentence, was past, Mrs Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33434	There's no damage to Article 29, and you probably meant 27. No injuries or Article 27, the dignity of the Assembly is not injured. Mr. Ivan Andric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33435	You know what, I agree. Here, the minister was shorter inside than he could handle underwater. Because that's the lack of those proposings here and that's not an accident. It's not because of their obligations, it's because of their desire to avoid answering this question. Try you, or here we tried to ask them – people, what are you doing, why are you making us laugh at you in a year and tell you that we were right? What's the motive for that? I think, from the beginning I will say, I spoke very clearly, although this all points to the financial benefits of the company owned by Mr Cvetkovic – I do not believe it. I think Mr. Cvetkovic understands and is a serious enough man to realize how compromising this person is. I think this is what Mr. Cvetkovic was set up to do, and that in that lies the anxiety and desire of Mr. Djelic not to be here today. That's because he's the legislator of this law. Mr. Chiplic is always welcome here, but what does he have to do with this law? She was here just now and Minister of Youth and Sports. That woman is looking, she understands nothing – of course she doesn't understand, because it's not her job. This law was submitted by Bozidar Djelic, Minister of Science and I don't know what else, but also by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration. I have a letter that Minister Djelic has received three times, in which he has the authority to tell him – it does not comply with European standards. Minister Djelic does not respond three times – in September, in October and now three days ago in December. Then what makes you think he'll come here and answer us? He doesn't care, he's waiting for time to pass, which my colleague said -- there's a vote, there's some higher interest in that vote again, everyone to push their head like an owl, and we move on, and in six months' time we change and supplement, delay, waste of time, waste of money. The result is the Leader, Mr. Shormaz, not our politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33436	You've wasted your time. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33437	The amendment to Article 62 requires that the member be deleted. Article 62 regulates the application of property rights which under this Article 62 may be exclusively and not exclusive. On the basis of exclusive concessions, only the sticker shall authorise the use of copyright, or his legal follower, of another person or third party and that is based solely on the non-exclusive concession, the sticker is not authorised to actually prohibit another person from exercising his or her right or to grant another his or her right. So, on the subject of the concession of property rights, then on the rights they have, then the rights they use, the rights they use, or the rights abusers of those rights, it can be said that there has been real confusion in our country. When the right to use the author's work is passed on to the conquistador, then from this to the other person to the third person, there is no longer any way to send all this away. Many agencies, many of the productions which in recent years in Serbia have failed as mushrooms, in the area of access to copyright abuse at the very least make abuses, and that is to the detriment of the author or their legal followers. That's why this is our call, our appeal for power in this area to make radical changes in order to provide more adequate protection, both by the author and by the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33438	The 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 65 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state of Serbia has the capacity in this area to pass a good law. However, from the previous polemic of Mrs Gorica Mojovic and colleagues Ivan Andric it is evident that there is no will and need – this was not planted by Bozidar Djelic Mirko Cvetkovic. It's conscious and willfully done things like this. Mrs Mojovic asks – where does it say it will be? Where does it say that free action will not be paid? Where does it say that Serbian citizens will not be employed? Where does it say that they will not be able to study? It doesn't say anything – you're just a rhetorical aphyrmist. When it comes to showing your story in action, she's nowhere to be found. Here ministers are changing on the issue of presenting this law on behalf of the government as at the train station – neither is it known when it comes in nor when it comes out. You've become a real minister of general practice. You don't know who's doing what here anymore. Guys, get serious in the country you run. You've got seven or eight million citizens, there's a large number of those who live beyond its borders, and they love it. What are you doing, what's your goal? I must say that Mrs. Branka Totic, Mrs. Zorica Vulas, could well propose this law, but no, we do not need such a law that will solve problems in this area, we need a law that will allow Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic later and who knows which Mirkov Cvetkovic needs to do this job. Do something for the citizens of Serbia, they expect it from you. It is suggested here that unfinished acts may be granted. To whom might unfinished acts be granted? Those business organizations that registered their activity, that, on their behalf, before they continue their activity, before the project can come together, they can make contracts and can practically treat them like they're slaves. Do you know that we live in the 21st century, not in the Middle Ages and in some earlier years? Get serious. Mr. Chiplet, you're a legally qualified man. Refuse once that permanent exchange of ministers to anyone and anything. We need someone here who will be responsible to tell us what it is, to make quality answers to what we, as MPs, have brought to us and to what our amendments were. Mrs. Branka could probably do that, but there's no authority. You haven't dealt with this matter enough, and that's why it doesn't matter that you're sitting here. This debate makes no sense, except that we tell the citizens of Serbia what kind of government this country is leading to and where you're going and where you're going.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33440	On Article 67, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33441	Of course, the amendment was not accepted by the government. Article 67 regulates the author's contract, to grant copyright or to transfer in general. In Section 2, where I asked for some words to be thrown out, and specifically, these are the words “if the provisions of this law are not different. ” For these words, I find them unnecessary because in the opening part of Article 2 the application of the Law on Bond Relations is potential. There's no more dilemma here. It is known which regulation is applicable, what are the provisions of the Law on Bond Relations, what are the rights of those relations between creditors and debtors, it is known that there are certain rights and copyrights have their own material component, and the Government says – there is something to be regulated by this law, because the Law on Bond Relations does not provide adequate protection. You know, no law provides enough protection unless it's applied. If the regulations apply, then there is protection. However, the author's work, no matter how much a reflection of creation, scientific, artistic, etc., as an individual, becomes a public matter at a certain point, and the moment it becomes a public matter, the Law on Liabilities applies, and we all strive to make the contract sacred, not so much law, especially in the area of personal rights, when it comes first to copyright.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33442	Time. It's been two minutes. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33443	This amendment requires that in art. In the 67th century, the 3rd, instead of the comma, put a point where the rest of the post-dot should be deleted. I'll remind you that a member of the 67th is a regulated question of the author's contract, so in the position of the 3rd member, which is the subject of my amendment, and says that the author's contracts are concluded in writing, if this law is not otherwise prescribed. It would be good if this law were not otherwise prescribed, but it is, and it is prescribed otherwise by Article 74 of this Law, where the possibility of copyright agreements being concluded not in writing, but that the oral form can also be envisaged, in three cases – in the issue of articles, in the issue of drawings and in the issue of other copyright articles in newspapers and in the second periodical press. Here, therefore, the oral form is allowed. The promoter says the author has been given the opportunity to allow that oral form. So it can be written, and if the Proposer allows, it can also be oral. We consider it necessary here, and in these three cases, only written form, to prevent various abuses in practice. We are witnesses, long ago, that even in these areas, therefore, in these areas of authorial expression, therefore, through newspapers, through the periodic press, etc., there is also an abuse and to prevent this, we ask that written form be provided in these areas of copyright.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33444	The 68th amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33445	Since I was an authorised representative today as far as copyright and related rights are concerned, I think we've talked a lot about this issue. I'm sorry Mr. Chiplic wasn't there, and Mr. Djelic, since he's the legislator of this law. I don't know what to say about this whole copyright and related law now. Now I'm just going to say that in Article 68(2), the point is placed instead of the comma, and the rest of that attitude is deleted. The explanation that it is necessary to explicitly specify the dose of banning part, recording part on sound carriers or images, as well as the dose for broadcasting. This protects copyrights and prevents their abuse by sound bearers producers, because they keep repeating themselves in the article – unless otherwise predicted, unless otherwise agreed. This opens up the possibility, the one we've been talking about all day and we've been talking about for days about this law, the abuse when someone gives up their copyright for the benefit of someone else, the third law transferor, and this is done every day here in Serbia compared to the discographers and the monopoly who hold record houses in relation to authors and performers. That's why I think that's where the law needs to be searched and found a solution to protect itself from the kind of monopolies that discographic houses carry out towards authors and performers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33446	The amendment was brought together by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic. Mrs Svetlana Stojanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33447	I apologize for reading the Law on Copyright and Related Amendments and writing amendments on it wrongly realized that the authors included painters, and writers, and actors and directors, and writers, and screenwriters, and dramatists, and ballet players, and literary translators. From the discussion, out of the passion that was brought into it, it was obvious what I was saying and in the principle debate, that this law refers to only one very narrow segment of copyright and, with all due respect for the problem that exists within that triangle of the manufacturer, sound and image bearer, composers who produce hits, authors who interpret these hits, on the one hand, and users of their works, therefore, with sincere respect to all of them, I have tried to propose some amendments concerning and other artists, which in this law are almost gone or have them in very abstract form, without defining their specific rights. To article 69, she submitted a Samandman that actually concerns a problem that arises in Article 70. I will quote the first position of the article that reads - if the use of the author's work results in profit, which is obviously disproportionate to the contracted copyright fee, the author, or his successor, has the right to seek an amendment to the author's contract in order to remove that disproportionateity. I think that this formulating the first position of a member in 70 creates legal uncertainty and represents an ex-post mind and that it would be much better for Article 69 to foresee that, when the authorial contract is first concluded, such an option would be provided. I am not saying that it is mandatory, as stated in the explanation of why the amendment is rejected, but if the author who concludes the contract foresees the possibility that his work will also gain more than the one he has contracted, he thinks it should be entered into the contract.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33448	Mr. Dragan Shormaz wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33449	This amendment, distinguished colleague Svetlana Stojanović, in fact, speaks about how true what we just said, how obvious this bill is and in a hurry even written, with only one goal. It is literally concluded only in the interest of an organisation owned, co-owner, however you will, Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister. He doesn't even care about all those who have copyright, but only one narrow part, one that might be turned around by the biggest money, but he's not concerned with protecting all those who have copyright. Once again, three times the IFP, an international organisation, is not a European organisation, but a world one, which in this area is the most measured to say, three letters has been sent to the government of the Republic of Serbia, that this bill is not in line with European standards. Three times, and she's back in procedure. What's the matter? It is only the interest of a group of people who want a monopoly in this area, and it is yours, 126 of you to press the green buttons and make it possible for them, because you are in the coalition, because you are MPs of the parties that make up the majority in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and because they think that you are not MPs. You should defend the interests of the citizens, the interests of the people. I once again urge you to vote against this law, if they are already stubborn that they will not withdraw it. I repeat, the bill was first proposed by Cvetkovic, when he was minister of finance, so he did not come into the process because we had extraordinary parliamentary elections. Now as Djelic suggests, he is nowhere to be found, other ministers who have nothing to do at the moment do nothing, answer no questions, don't explain, don't want to get involved. They know what we're talking about and I repeat, three times they're sending you a letter, so an international organisation that says, which is the most measured international organisation, that it's not in line with European standards, and it's full of the EU's mouth. I am telling you again as a member of the party, as a member of the DSS who is a 10-year-old MP, the party that has done the most on the way to the EU, which has suffered the most and experienced this greatest transition damage, this has happened to other countries, and we have been prepared to do this because we have worked in the interests of our citizens and it has not been difficult for us, the party that has done the most for the change and standardisation of our society at this level at which the EU states are, once again I am telling you, don't do this. If the government is stubborn and won't withdraw it, vote against it. You can continue to speak with your propaganda and tell stories about how the DSS is against the EU, how Kostunica is against the EU. How is it against the EU, and today it is at the IPP Congress, or the European People's Party in Bon, today and tomorrow? Two days. It's not in controlled media anywhere to be heard. Otherwise, your left-wings do not rule, they are the EU opposition. The European People's Parties rule the EU and Kostunica now sits with them there. How is he against the EU if he does all this and participates? What he says - I want to know what is for the EU Serbia, whether with Kosovo or not, say gentlemen? That makes him against the EU. Really? Do you want to know what the EU is? Isn't it your sentence or your president - Europe has no alternative, and if Kosovo is a condition to join the EU, we will never admit it. We have a logical mistake here. Then how does Europe have no alternative? What if that's our condition? Then how come we won't have an alternative? What's the alternative? But nicely, research says people want to join the EU and that people want to defend Kosovo and then you put two things in one sentence and drive. How long do you think this campaign can be run like that? Then work, to harvest the fruits of our work, which we have proven to you in the debate on visa liberalisation. Yesterday's trade agreement, thank God, but to inform you, 90% of it has already worked at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, 70% in the government of Zoran Djindjic has already worked. Back in the day, what we got back yesterday worked out. How much good we will benefit, how practical our economy and our state will benefit, it now depends on ourselves. Since you are the government, as incompetent as you are, you will have no use for the Transition Trade Agreement. That's why the time and this bill, however banally it sounds, today, I end, Wednesday, Thursday, what, there's nothing, what is this parliament going to do until Friday at four o'clock? Nothing. Isn't that proof that you're running out of time? You've been cheating on the citizens a lot. Fiat, there's nothing. It's past November, what about the new model. Dinkic said that Tadic and he will see in November a new model that will be produced in Kragujevac. That's what he said last week October. Today it was announced for NIS 500 dinars per action. Citizens times five per share that's 1,000 dinars. What about a thousand euros? What about the 200,000 employees? A hundred thousand people are lost. The salaries were 400 euros, now 300, 70% of pensions were frozen by April 2011, with this draft budget law that you gave for 2010 and plus you owe the state, I said today, 5,000 euros per family, on average, since it does not work two in the family, which literally a year for each of our employees to separate their annual salary, in order to repay the debt that you make. The bread not to eat, the children not to give a crumb of one. How are we gonna pay those debts back? Of the 11 points on the agenda, the budget is borrowing, another billion, plus five more points of the borrowing agenda. What economy do we have to return? Then says the president of that government, for whom this law is written - we are not in charge of the state too much. Really? You see, in the region some others are in charge. What are we going to do, measure ourselves with Croatia? It has several billion euros annually from tourism. What do we have? You're going crazy, you're going to buy the port of Bar. We'll talk about it. Why do we need a port bar? We don't have the goods to take off with one tow truck or truck, not overseas ships. Where's the railroad to the port of Bar? The Croats sold nine this year and didn't sell any. Of course someone can't wait to get us a port we don't need. Serbia doesn't need it at all. Let Mr. Nikolic say the same. Do you need a Port of Port Bar? It's closer to Thessalonica. It's worth a lot more to them. And Vranju, Leskovci, Nishu, what do they need the port of Bar? Now we're going crazy about it, we're going to buy the port of Bar, we're going to spend money, and we're going to make these bills that have nothing to do with it, they don't have anything to do with it, and they're not going to solve the situation. They'll still have to sell compact discs with cell phones cards, not in the store, like anywhere else, normally in the world. It's not going to solve the copyright issue, it's not going to change anything here, it's just going to embarrass us. We'll have to re-change that law in a few months or as soon as this government falls, it might be faster than a few months. Why? Because it's only written for the interest of a man sitting in that government or a group of his company. Please think again in voting day, nor can these amendments we've written change that. We tried to change something as much as possible, but this law should be withdrawn or voted against.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33450	Mr. Shormaz, you were mostly talking about a subject that might be more relevant on Friday. So you didn't stick to the agenda. Parliamentarians Svetlana Stojanovic, Milos Aligrudic, Zeljko Tomic, submitted together to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Parliamentarians Svetlana Stojanović and Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted the amendment to Article 87. Do you want to follow this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33451	And I have submitted this amendment on the assumption that copyright works are created by both writers and painters, and directors and so on. And I suggest that in article 87, which is the subject of the work just processing for film and television, the works that are recorded on the image carriers. So far, we've been talking only about parts that are recorded on sound carriers. So from that article of 87, I throw out those pieces, so that a member can apply to any authorial work. So, if the amendments I am proposing were accepted, Article 88 would read: If the copyright processing contract is not different, the author or successor of it is subject to the following exclusive rights: 1) to the processing of works; 2) to multiplying copies of such works; 3) to display the work; 4) to broadcast the work. So he's throwing out the film and trying to be a member at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33452	The amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic to article 89. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 91st Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 93 of the amendment was submitted by the peoples of MP Milan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Milicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Svetlana Stojanović, Milos Aligrudić and Željko Tomic together submitted the title above Article 108. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted this amendment. On Article 117, the amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Branimir Djokić, a national MP, submitted to the 127th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 127 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Andric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 142, paragraph 5 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the Committee on Science and Technological Development, and the Government accepted this amendment. The government has not considered a correction to this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. We now have information that the government has accepted the correction. National MP Sasa Dujovic has submitted an amendment proposing that Article 131a be added after article 131a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 156. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 156, have been submitted by the Committee on Science and Technological Development. The government has accepted this amendment. Member of the 157th Amendment was submitted by MP Branimir Djokic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr. Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33453	This amendment is very important. During the adoption and granting of powers by the Institute of Intellectual Property to certain organisations involved in this area, copyright protection. In Article 157, instead of Article 1 to add the position 2 which reads: At least 2/3 of the founders of the organisation must be protocold as authors of the work interpreters they are dealing with. Why is that necessary? Because major abuses have been committed and are being done today, certain associations that give some representativeness on the basis of which the Institute of Intellectual Property gives them the authority to perform certain activities, put on lists of people who are not at all from this activity or profession. If this were checked, if someone wanted to get into those lists now, on the basis of which certain associations brought a thousand, two thousand members, this would now very much happen if those lists were not correct. Not someone who is not directly in the profession to sign and be a member simply because he is a member of an association, and is not involved in this work, gives representativeness to an association and based on such lists of the Institute of Intellectual Property to give authority to that organisation that it does so, so I put it in this amendment that only people who are directly protocold to deal with professionally this activity, because here directly refers to the profession. It's like if I went to sign for a bar or, I don't know, a certain other professional association where, of course, it has nothing to do with my work. It is therefore very important to stress that at least now, the future manipulations that have been done and done daily with these lists, the demonstration of representativeness, and that is all forgeries.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33454	Member of the 157th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic, who wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33455	On behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 157, and I remain with that amendment, and also with the reasons. Compared to these works, I would like to point out to the public, and also to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to those who decide on copyright fees, copyright and those who, above all, write textbooks for secondary and primary education and for those who write textbooks in colleges. That is why the government and the competent resolution ministries need to take more account. No wonder the textbooks for elementary and secondary education write both Kurt and Murt, to forgive, but I must say that every third child has the wrong spine of the cargo he carries at school. As far as higher education and college textbooks are concerned, I have to say this isn't worth enough. When it comes to the law school and Belgrade and other universities of the Republic of Serbia and the subject matter that are first and foremost being studied, and the preparation of laws by certain ministries, are primarily organised and engaged by committees, I wonder why the largest experts from the legal area, such as Slobodan Perović, the expert on bond law, Prof. Dr. Veroljub Brajovic, the expert on procedures for the exercise of all civil rights such as the laws on litigation and enforcement, such as the works of our famous far-reaching professor, Dr. Radomir Lukic, therefore, in this area, care must be taken to who is taken into commission, why can these professors from law school not be hired to write certain laws? I said, I repeat, Slobodan Perovic of the bond law, Veroljub Brajovic of civil law, so I must say that for the preparation of laws and textbooks and those authors who are highly paid to the commission cannot come to these people, and you know that we still have such proposals for laws that come before parliament and that are adopted here in parliament, and that there is no time when they should be in application and that amendments and additions of these laws are required. Regardless of this bill of copyright and related rights, I used practice to have textbooks write to us and those dilettantes who don't deserve it. They compete who will write 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 or 5,000 pages of certain textbooks for a certain level of education, but who controls it and who approves it? There's a problem. In this area, we have no regulated practice from which area anyone should be engaged. When it comes to judicial laws, why aren't the professors of law school, who are experts in certain branches real, but are written to us by some interns, people who don't have a mild relationship with practice?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33456	You've been talking a little longer. The amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic to Article 166. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted this amendment. The 171st amendment was submitted by MP Filip Stojanovic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33457	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 171. A bill on copyright and related rights, which requires that this article be deleted. With this member, as well as other norms of this bill, the ruling set in Serbia does nothing to prevent a massive robbery committed in this area at the expense of artists, authors and performers. This member did not elaborate and specify many aspects of the use of phonograms under certain circumstances and depending on the type of music. He says that you can also set a flat rate of charge from certain users of phonograms, such as listening on the bus, craft shop, exhibition space, cafe, etc., which can, in the end, be introduced into this legal framework, because it is about protecting copyright and related rights. The question arises - why is there no representative of the Union of employers of Serbia, who protect and the rights of users of these phonograms to have their own representative in a particular commission who will adopt a tariff rule on the height and manner of payment of these flat-rates? This member does not mention a problem anywhere that is not negligible at all, but, on the contrary, opens up another major problem, and that is - how to charge and determine the way the flat-rate compensation from the user of the phonogram, which was issued by a foreign publisher, listens to music exclusively by foreign performers or classical music - Beethoven, Mozart, Montana, etc., and uses secretly in his CD player who has acquired or bought the CD abroad, so I wonder who that money is going to be, when it is known that an authorised organisation, an organisation of Serbia's phonogram producer has an international contract with three countries, which is England, Russia and Italy, and they have no technical options?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33458	Time. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to Article 174. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 176 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted this amendment. Member of the 177th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic, who wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33459	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suggested that Article 177 be deleted because it is meaningless and excessive. SOKOJ protects the rights of Svetlana Raznatovic, Jaya Ramadanovski and other beautiful Lanas, beautiful Mić and Extra Nena. There's nothing controversial about it. Dispute is that in this country, the rights of those who are thousands of times more endangered than singers and those who only open their mouths are not protected. I mean 700,000 citizens of Serbia today who have nothing to eat and at least as many cheated citizens. Who will protect the rights of Livnica workers in Ljig, who work in extremely difficult conditions, with a salary of about 16,000 dinars and whose pension and health insurance has not been paid in the last six months? The director of the mill Milutin Ranisavljevic-Smitt, with unconscious work, systematically destroys the branch, whose capital is reduced by over one million euros at the moment. The rights of the branch worker can protect police commander Marko Pajevic and municipal public prosecutor of the municipality of Ljig Milan Gavrilovic, who have two criminal charges in front of them of the KP 18/8 and KPR 15/8, with a number of undeniable evidence of crime in Livnica, Ljig. For reasons known to them alone, they don't follow those criminal charges.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33460	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 177, has been submitted by the Committee on Science and Technological Development. The government has accepted this amendment. On Article 178, MP Filip Stojanovic, who wants a word, submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33461	Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 178. A bill on copyright and related rights, which requires that this article be deleted. In Article 178, point 1 of the word "representative association" is deleted. The introduction of a representative producer association creates a monopoly and the free market and free production is abolished. According to the draft law, participants in this business are forced to comply with the conditions dictated by the representative association of producers, i.e. The manufacturer's monopoly. I ask the question - what are the criteria that determine and what is the representative association of producers, when it is known that the registration of these phonogram manufacturers is physically registered, in order to give most of them one or two producers and get a licence as representative producers, and thus a monopoly over the market? For example, a record label, such as PGP RTS, has more quality music videos in one year than all these producers reportedly gathered around an organisation called Serbia's phonogram producer. Such a large organisation of phonograms, such as PGP RTS, does not have to form part of this representative association and they can enter into direct contracts with individual manufacturers and authors or with their agencies, which are registered to protect their rights. This would avoid monopoly by a representative association of producers. There's a lot of money in this option, and it's all at the expense of the author and the performer. They can't stop this, so it takes space to make other record houses that don't want to be in this so-called. A representative organisation could be an equal partner on the market in this area of discography. That's why I invite you to accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33462	On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 178, was submitted by the Committee on Science and Technological Development. The government has accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic to article 180. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 192, the amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, amendment to Article 200, was submitted by the Committee on Science and Technological Development. The government has accepted this amendment. On Article 201, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, who wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33463	Of course, this amendment was not accepted by the government either. It is the costs of the procedure before the Commission for Copyright and Related Rights and only in one part when the Commission is activated, which gives an opinion on the proposal for a tariff proposed by the organisations. It must be known that the commission has a president and four members and that the commission is not a permanent body. In Article 251(2), the amount of compensation is prescribed, so it is said that a member of the commission is entitled to a fee of 20% of the basic monthly salary of the judge of the district court. Excuse me, please, we don't have a district court judge anymore, Mr. Chiplet. If you remember, a year ago there was an absolute change in not only the name but also the network of courts and courts, so I don't know how you're going to apply this provision. What the SRS has proposed is that it also be 20%, but not of the judge's salary but of the minimum monthly earnings in the Republic of Serbia, before it comes to the fees of members of a commission, and the commission is not a permanent character, it only occasionally meets to resolve something that is controversial about tariffs. First there's this technical error that you haven't even noticed, I suppose, although I'm surprised by the date the bill entered the procedure, but then the name of the county courts became a historical term, yes, in September of this year the law entered the procedure, you could change it, but it's not just about whether it's county or it's appeals, but above all high. If a body is ad hoc, it meets at the request, when a dispute arises between the organisation and the users in terms of tariffs, then they sit down, solve the problem by delivering their opinion on tariffs. I don't think it's such a systematic job, that I don't know what it takes, a large service, a large analysis, etc., but this 20% minimum profit fee in the Republic of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33464	It's been two minutes. Thank you. National MP Djordje Milicevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new 202 member be added after article 202. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 215th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetlana Stojanovic, Milos Aligrudic and Zeljko Tomic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Mrs Svetlana Stojanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33465	This is the last amendment I've submitted. What I'm saying is that these six or seven amendments that we've submitted would not change anything about copyright and related rights, which we consider to be a conceptional bad, to only take care of those works of art that bring great money, that the whole dispute over which that money will belong. I would always be in favour of belonging to the authors, and the amendment that I submitted to article 215 falls within the section – Penal Provisions. The first position of Article 215 reads: "It will be fined for a commercial offence with a fine of between 100,000 and 3,000,000 dinars by a company or another legal person who", the amendment suggests that there be added: "no pay or pay with a late fee for the author's work which has been authorised to publish". How did we explain this amendment? The efforts of all types of authors to charge these authorial poor women who do not charge large fees, the efforts of all types of authors to collect their fees would have much greater prospects of success if they were to receive a legal foothold by not paying or late payment of fees will be defined as an economic offense that is punished by the amount I have stated. The amendment was rejected with an explanation: for something to be called a business offense should concern financial business. Well, that's all. The second condition is that it should cause severe social consequences. Non-payment of fees to authors is causing severe social consequences for the country's culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33466	The amendment was submitted to Article 219 by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic to Article 219. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Andric submitted to Article 219 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric to Article 220. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 220 provides for the application of Article 29(2) relating to the establishment of a collective rights organisation, to be postponed until Serbia's entry into the EU. With my amendment, I suggested that this unlimited, indefinite deadline should be limited to two years. First, who guarantees that Serbia will ever be admitted to the EU? Second, when is that gonna happen? We remember that before 5 October you promised to be in 2004 and later that deadline was extended for each election campaign for another two or three years, so that you would now come into a situation that ministers, some ministers from the ruling coalition, promise to do so in 2014, and a few days later, other ministers deny them and say – it is not realistic to do so before 2018. Practically, it means that we'll experience this regulation in maybe five years, in 10 years, or maybe when it comes to vervain. Otherwise, I think it is precedent that the parliament of a state adopts a certain legal solution, and that I am in that legal solution says - we have no idea when we will start applying it. And this member of the law is a picture and an opportunity of DS policy that comes down to the next – we'll provide you with jobs, we just don't know when, we'll provide you with a better life, we just don't know when. We're going to adopt this regulation, Article 29, we just have no idea when and if we're going to apply it at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33468	The People's Messenger, Pavel Marchok, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33469	In the end, I would only use two minutes to praise this law and I would like to say that in this law finally, unlike the previous, end-users have the right to influence the formation of a single tariff, which has not been settled in the past law and that, finally, this law and looks from the corner of end-users. Here we were mostly talking about interpreters and authors today, but this law will allow hundreds of thousands of end-users to receive a more adequate and unique tariff and charge and, as defined by this law, to determine tariffs based on a geographical definition, as so far there has been no difference between, say, a salon in the capital and a salon in a small town or village. Today, this law corrects both the lack and many others. I would like to commend that this law is much better and even looks at end-users, besides authors and interpreters.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33470	Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? (No) I conclude the review of the draft copyright and related law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank you for your work today. We'll continue Friday, December 11th, 10:00 p.m. [[The session was suspended at 17.40 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33471	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT THIRD SESSION OF 8 December 2009 (The session began at 12.10 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33472	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the third special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. This special session, pursuant to Article 115(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have called for the oath of President of the Supreme Cassation Court and of the Republic Public Prosecutor who, in accordance with the law, take the oath before the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I am, in accordance with Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 88(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, called for the presence of Ivica Eždenci, the Secretary of the High Council of the Judiciary, Nela Kuburović, from the Administrative Office of the High Court of Justice, Majda Kršikap, adviser at the Supreme Court of Serbia, Vesna Colanovic and Nevenka Dedic-Dragčević, special guests of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Snezana Malović, Minister of Justice, Miljko Radisavljevic, Special Prosecutor for Organized Crime, Slobodan Radovanovic, V.d. Republic Public Prosecutor Djordje Ostojic, Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic of Public Prosecutor Ivana Letica Pavić, Deputy District Attorney in Novi Sad, Slobodan Homen, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Ivana Markovic, Chief of Justice Minister Zorica Stajic, Deputy District Attorney in Belgrade Tomislav Kilibard, V.d. The second municipal public prosecutor in Belgrade, Jugoslav Stojljković, director of the Department for the Management of Disposal of Assets, Dragana Lukic, Assistant Minister of Justice Milan Obradovic, Director of the Office for Law enforcement, Vladimir Vukcevic, Prosecutor of War Crimes, Bruno Vekaric, spokesman of the Prosecutor of the War Crimes Ministry, Nenad Ukropin, Deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, Svetislav Đurović, Head of the Office for Combating Organized Crime, Maja Matija Ristic, Minister of Justice, Krsman Ilic, Deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, Branko Lazarevic, Chief of the Interior Minister and Dragan Vukic, Assistant Minister of Justice. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the People's Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on my behalf, all the honored guests. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the fifth session of the Second Regular Session in 2009, held on 30 November 2009, chose Mrs Nata Mesarovic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and Mrs Zagorko Dolovac as the Republic Public Prosecutor. I also remind you that Article 53 is Section 2. The Law on Judges found that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court took an oath before the National Assembly and Article 83(1). The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office found that a republican public prosecutor took an oath before the National Assembly. Accordingly, I call first on Mrs Nata Mesarovic, president of the Supreme Cassation Court, to approach to take the oath.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33473	"I swear by my honor that I will serve my function with a faithful constitution and law, by my best knowledge and skill, and serve only truth and justice."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33474	I ask the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation to sign the text of the oath. I now call upon Mrs. Zagorka Dolovac, the Republic Public Prosecutor, to approach for the purpose of taking an oath.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33475	"I pledge my honor to perform a public prosecutorial function in a committed, safe and impartial manner and to protect constitutionality and legality, human rights and civil freedom."
ParlaMint-RS_2009-12-08-0.u33476	I'm asking the Republic Public Prosecutor to sign and hand over the text of the oath. I thank you and, in my name and on behalf of all the MPs, allow me to congratulate you once again on your choice and wish you a great deal of success in your work. I conclude the third special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Here you go. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are 127 MPs present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of National MP Milica Radovic. You have received a proposal from MP Aleksandra Jerkov, deputy president of the ZES parliamentary group, to be held on the basis of Article 165(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by emergency procedure, put on the agenda of this session a proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We move to the 59th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision from the National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, deputy president of the ZES Group. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 163(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and that is: The Parliamentary Group for European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Plus Parliamentary Group - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes 12 seconds; the Parliamentary Group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS Group - JS - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina MP group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak every one to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 163(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. Does a representative of the promoter, MP Alexander Jerkov, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that according to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the principled search, no one filed an application for a word. As no one has reported, I conclude a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. Since there was no need to take active participation at this point, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set 11 December 2009, starting at 10.20 p.m. as a day for voting on agenda items of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 86(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if 126 MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. At this point, 126 cards are registered. We're moving to decision-making on the agenda points. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, it's 125. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the regulation of courts, in general. Of 127 MPs, it is 126. The National Assembly adopted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Regulation of Courts. We move to paragraph 2: – Proposal for a LAW ON SUPPLEMENT OF JUDGE LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Judges' Law, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since we have adopted the bill in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 127 MPs, two voted for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on the addition of the Judges' Law, in general. Of the 129 MPs, all 129 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill supplementing the Law on Judges. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PUBLIC AUTHORITY LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, in principle. Of the 130 MPs, 127 voted. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. As we have adopted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, three voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, in general. Of the 129 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON ORGANISATION AND AUTHORITY OF THE STATE AUTHORITIES IN THE ACCORDANCE OF THE WARY PROCEDURE As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes procedure, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. Since we have adopted the bill in principle, we are moving to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 130 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes procedure, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to come forward. Of the 129 MPs, 128 voted. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state orgnance to fight against high-tech crime, since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat high-tech crime, in principle. Of the 129 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 129 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 128 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 5. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 128 MPs, 120 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The National Assembly did not accept the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat high-tech crime in general. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities for the fight against high-tech crime in general. We move on to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE COURT Academia Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on the Judicial Academy in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the law, the amendment was filed by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 127 MPs, one MP voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 119 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Đuro Peric. Of the 127 MPs, four voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The People's MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted the 3rd amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 125 voted in favour of this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 122 voted for this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The government has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 113 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of 127 MPs, no one for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 114 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 10th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the amendment to Article 10, has been submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 121 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 115 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 15th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 16th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 18th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Jovan Palalic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 22, the amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 37th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 28th Amendment was submitted by Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 29th amendment in the same text was submitted by Srdjan Spasojevic and 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia submitted to the 30th amendment in the same text. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 31st Amendment in the same text was submitted by Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 32nd amendment was submitted to the same text by Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MPs Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 20 MPs from the Prosperity Group of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 34th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Srdjan Spasojevic and a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 35th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic and Nenad Konstantinovic together submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 121 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. A member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verice Radet. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 107 MPs voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Srdjan Spasojevic submitted to the 35th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. Member of the 36th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 37th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 39th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Bozidar Delic submitted together to the 40th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 40th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 40th Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Jelena Budimirovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Stefan Zankov. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Zoran Babic submitted to the 40th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Zoran Antic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Of 127 MPs none for. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice Committee have just accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 113 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 46th amendment was submitted by a group of MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 47th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 49th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 50th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 51st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 51st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group submitted to the 53rd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 58th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 59th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of the 127 MPs, four are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 60th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the amendment to Article 61, was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of 127 MPs, 122 are in favour. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on the Judicial Academy, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of the 127 MPs, 126 voted for the law in general. I find that a draft law on the Judicial Academy has been passed. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SECURITY OF DATA After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting a vote on the proposal for a law on the confidentiality of information, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted for the bill in principle. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 120 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 2nd amendment, with correction, was filed by Jovan Palalic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. The amendment was submitted by the Government to Articles 2 and other members of the bill stating the word "approval", which states. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour of this amendment. The National Assembly accepted the amendment. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Dragan Stevanovic in the same text. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 107 voted. The amendment has been accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 14th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 15th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 16th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 20th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 24th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 29th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 36th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the title above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 37th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Government, with a correction, and by the Protector of Citizens. The government has accepted the amendment of the Protector of Citizens. The Committee on Justice and Administration has accepted the amendment of the Government, with correction, as well as the amendment of the Citizens' Protector. Of the 126 MPs, 112 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 38th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jankovic, together Vesna Pesic, Judita Popović and Nebojsa Rangelović, together Jovan Palalić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milos Aligrudić and Miroslav Petkovic, Government and Citizens' Protector, submitted to the 40th amendment. The government accepted the amendment of the People's MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, together Vesna Pesic, Judite Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic; together Jovan Palalić, Milice Vojić-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic and the amendment of the Citizens' Protector. The Committee for Justice and Administration accepted the amendment of the People's MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, together Vesna Pesic, Judite Popović and Nebojsa Rangelović; together Jovan Palalić, Milice Vojić-Marković, Milos Aligrudić and Miroslav Petkovic, the amendment of the Protectors of Citizens and Government. Of the 126 MPs, for 121. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted the 42nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 43rd amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic together submitted to the title above the 44th and 44th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Ragush. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 51st Amendment was jointly submitted by Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 118 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 61st amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 64th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs of the "Forward Serbia" group and MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The title above the 65th and the 65th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 65th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 66th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Arangelovic submitted together to the 67th amendment. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 67 of the amendment, with correction, was filed by MP Marina Tomman. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 67th amendment. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 76th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Vučković. Of the 126 MPs, four is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of Chapter VI, the amendment was submitted by the Government. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 121 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 87th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. Of the 127 MPs, no one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 88th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 120 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 92nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please, we'll have to determine the quorum. I am suspending the vote, or we will repeat the vote for Article 92 after we determine the quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Since we're 126, there's a decision-making quorum. Member of the 92nd amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of the 126 MPs, two voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. The 93rd Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 95th Amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 119 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Together, Jovan Palalic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Milos Aligrudic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The government has submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which adds the title and article 97a. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment with the correction. Of the 126 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 98th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 99th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The government has submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. The Justice and Administration Committee has accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the proposal for a confidentiality law, in general. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Privacy Policy. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Free Access to Information From Public Meaning Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MPs Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Milica Vojic-Markovic, have submitted the amendment together to Article 8. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 127 MPs, two voted for this amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to the 1st amendment, with a correction. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Jeremic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment, together. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic, Sasa Maksimovic and Otto Kismarton of 126 MPs, no one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic. The government did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 113 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Citizens' Protector submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Please, take a look at your cards. We'll have to repeat the amendment vote on Article 14, but first we'll have to determine the quorum. Please insert the cards into the MPs' units. I figure there's 126 of us. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. So we repeat that vote. Of the 126 MPs, one is in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Milan Avramovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 15a be added after article 15. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Boris Aleksic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 15a be added after article 15. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Pesic, Judita Popovic and Nebojsa Rangelovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 121 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance in general. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. The National Assembly adopted a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Civil Servants Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Before moving to the amendment decision, I remind you that MP Zlata Djeric withdrew the amendments she submitted to the members of 49a and 49b of the bill. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The Second Amendment, with correction, was filed by the Verse of Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 116 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The Board of Justice and Administration, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 8. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Verica Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 122 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. A member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Verse of Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Vlatko Ratkovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 114 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 47th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 54th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 55th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 55th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Alexander Martinovic submitted to the 56th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 57th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 66th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Dear People's MPs, I remind you he's a member of 66. The draft law provides for this law to enter into force the following day from the date of its publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In the light of the draft law, the Government has stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, within the meaning of Article 196(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia stems from the need to reform the official system, the state administration's rationalisation measure and the need to reduce the expenditure of the republic's administration. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 126 MPs, all 126 MPs voted in favour. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants. Of the 126 MPs, 125 voted in favour, and I find that we passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE MOUNTAINING OF THE MEXIMAL MANAGES IN THE REPUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVE ADMINISTRATIVES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on determining the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 125 voted in favour of the law. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that, during the review of the draft law in particular, amendments were withdrawn by MPs Milisav Petronijevic to members 10th and 11th and Gordana Rajkov to Article 11. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 1st amendment. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, submitted together to the 2nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. No one for, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The second amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 118 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. An MP, Dragomir Cimeša, submitted to the 3rd amendment. Four for, of 127. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Suzanne Grubjesic submitted to Article 3. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I understand the amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Mirko Cikiriz, Aleksandar Jugovic, Zika Gojkovic and Aleksandar Cikiriz. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 20 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 4th amendment. No one for, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic, submitted together to the 4th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, on Article 6 of the amendment, were tabled by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Of the 127 MPs, the amendment voted 119, so it was accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Pesic, Zoran Ostojic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bajram Šehovic, Vitomir Mihajlovic, Meso Omerovic and Munir Poturak. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic. Of the 127 MPs, six voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic and MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Of the 127 MPs, 10 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic and Milica Vojic-Markovic submitted together to the 10th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Đuro Peric. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Arsen Đuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milos Aligrudic submitted together to the 10th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure have been tabled by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs on Article 11 of the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 117 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic and MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by Miroslav Markicevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Jovan Palalic, Milos Aligrudic, Arsen Djuric, Aleksandar Pejcic and Milica Vojic-Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by a group of 20 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 14th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you he's a member of the 14th. The bill provides for the law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are particularly justified reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. In the light of the bill's proposal, the Government cited particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force before the eighth day of its publication, consisting in the need to adopt appropriate sub-legislative acts, to carry out quality checks on the work of employees within the prescribed time limit, and to allow for new acts to be adopted in the bodies of the state administration, public agencies and compulsory social insurance organisations by 31 December 2009. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of 127 MPs, 127 are in favour. The National Assembly has determined that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the bill on determining the maximum number of employees in the republican administration, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 125 are in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill establishing the maximum number of employees in the republican administration. We move to the 11th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Determination of the Maximum Number of Employees in Local Administration Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law on determining the maximum number of employees in the local administration, in principle. Of 127 MPs, 123 are in favour. The National Assembly adopted the bill in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that MP Susana Grubjesic, in writing, withdrew the amendments she submitted to the article. Eight and ten. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Of the 127 MPs, 8 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić-Marković, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colakovic. Of 127 MPs, three are in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The second amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Omeragic and Riza Halimi. The Government, the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment. Of 127 MPs, 123 are in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 2, was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Of the 127 MPs, 100 voted against 23 did not vote 4. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A group of 21 MPs from the "Forward Serbia" group submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Of 127 MPs, in four. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Mihailo Puric. Of 127 MPs, for five. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić-Marković, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapcevic submitted the 4th amendment together. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Of 127 MPs, in three. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapcevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milan Lapčević. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th amendment was submitted by a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Serbia group. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Of 127 MPs, for five. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 8, was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. Of 127 MPs, for 119. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Momo Colaković. Of 127 MPs, for 7. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Marinkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 9, was tabled by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Of the 127 MPs, for 116. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Of 127 MPs, for 9. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Cedomir Jovanovic, Zoran Ostojic, Vesna Pesic, Nebojsa Rangelovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Daniela Lovrin-Gavrilovic submitted to the 10th Amendment. Of 127 MPs, in four. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Of 127 MPs, for five. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I made a mistake about the amendment to article 10 submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. It's about the amendment with the correction. Please make a statement. Of 127 MPs, for 118. I find that the amendment to Article 10, with the correction submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic, was adopted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Buha and a group of 21 MPs from the Progressive Group of Serbia. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, the amendment was submitted to Article 11 by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. Of the 127 MPs, 119 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Zoran Shami, Arsen Đuric, Milica Vojic-Markovic, Jovan Palalic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I'd like to remind you that he's a member of the 14th. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia – laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that the entry into force of the law within a short period of time resulted in the need to enable, after its adoption, the establishment of an optimal number of employees in the local administration, thereby rationalising and saving costs within the local administration, i.e. the creation of a developmental municipal and urban budget and the release of financial resources for the investment and development of a local self-government unit, with a view to ensuring a better, more efficient and cheaper public administration capable of serving the needs of citizens. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Of the 127 MPs, 124 were declared. The National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote a bill laying down the maximum number of employees in the local administration, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 122 were declared. The National Assembly passed a bill establishing the maximum number of employees in the local administration. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Regulation on the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and the borrowers or the guarantees for commitments under the loans of the Inter-European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and borrowers or guarantees for commitments made under the loans of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Lidija Dimitrijevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and borrowers or guarantees for commitments made under the loans of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on regulation of the relations between the Republic of Serbia and borrowers or guarantees for commitments made under the loans of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We move to the 13th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CLASSIFICATION LAW Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft labour classification law, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that amendments were withdrawn by MPs Stefan Zankov, Veroljub Arsic and Zoran Antić, who jointly submitted amendments to Article 7 and Jelena Budimirović, Vučeta Toskovic and Zoran Antić, who jointly submitted amendments to Article 7. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorgvanka Tabakovic, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorgvanka Tabakovic, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Colic, Mico Rogovic and Zoran Antic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mico Rogovic, Sasa Maksimovic, Stefan Zankov and Zoran Antic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, let us join the vote on the draft law in general. I am putting the draft law on the classification of performance in general. Of the 126 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on the classification of work. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE Official STATISTICS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on official statistics to the vote, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 120 voted for this proposal. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Dusan Maric submitted an amendment to the article. 1. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 1st amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 109 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Avramovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above article 6 and Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dusan Maric submitted an amendment proposing that Articles 7 and all other members of the bill mentioning the word "impletion" be changed. During the search in particular, a representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 109 have been declared to this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Please, gentlemen of Parliament, we don't have a quorum, we're going to have to determine it. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. We'll get back to that. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic and Zoran Antić. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 110 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Bojan Mladenovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic and Zoran Antic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On behalf of Glava III, the title above Article 13 and Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Gentlemen, please, Mr. Zivanovic's amendment will be required again, someone has not put the card on and we are re-establishing the quorum. Let's concentrate a little bit on getting this job done. The title above Article 14 and Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. We're pleading again. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted to the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The National MP Radisa Ilic submitted to the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Article 17 and Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Ljubenovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Ilic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic and Zoran Antic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 52nd amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. To the title above article 55 and article 55, MP Radisa Ilic submitted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on official statistics in general. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill on official statistics. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Census of dwellings, households and dwellings 2011. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I am voting on the draft law on censuses, households and apartments in 2011, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Stevanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Verica Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment has been accepted. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Zlata Djeric submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic, Sasa Maksimovic, submitted the 26th amendment together. Of 127 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Esad Djudjevic, Bajram Omeragic and Riza Halimi. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 110 were declared to be the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 30th Amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Mico Rogovic, Zoran Antic and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on censuses, households and apartments in 2011 as a whole. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour of the law. The National Assembly passed a bill on the census, households and apartments in 2011. We move to the 16th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE POLJOPRIVREDE 2011 LAW. THE year since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and detail, we move on to a decision. I put the draft agricultural list law in 2011, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 121 came forward. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dobrislav Prelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic, Otto Kismarton and Ljiljana Miladanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Prime Minister Vlad Milojkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs for this amendment, 112 voted. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Srboljub Zivanovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government has accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 107 voted. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 10 and 10. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Dobrislav Prelic submitted an amendment above Articles 12 and 12. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Vlad Milojkovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 22nd amendment was submitted by Srboljub Zivanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic, Otto Kishmarton and Zoran Babic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Popovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragan Zivkov. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 26th Amendment, with a correction, was filed by Parliament MP Milorad Krstin. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft agricultural list law in 2011 in general. Of the 127 MPs, 124 were declared. The National Assembly adopted the 2011 Agricultural List Act. We move on to the 17th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE PUBLIC ASSISTANCE OF THE PUBLIC EXPRIATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION FOR THE BUDGET OF MG-11 As the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline MG-11. Of the 127 MPs, 121 were declared. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by Otto Kišmarton, Mileta Poscurica, Zoran Antić, Ljiljana Miladanovic and Zoran Babic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I'd like to remind you that it's Article 5. The bill envisions that the law enters into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the law and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of its publication, and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. In the light of the draft law, the Government has stated that it is proposed that the law enters into force earlier in order to prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences due to the delay in the construction of the MG-11 master gas pipeline and the associated gas pipelines with the accompanying facilities, including the setting up of an optical cable for telemetry, control and remote management of the gas system, thus missing the construction season, disabling natural gas supplies in southern Serbia, encouraging the economic development of this region, thus providing financial resources for the construction of that pipeline for the current financial year. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. Of the 127 MPs, 127 were declared, so I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of the day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a motion to vote. Of the 127 MPs, 122 voted in favour of the bill. The National Assembly adopted a bill establishing public interest in the expropriation of immovableity in order to build the Master's gas pipeline, SG-11. We move on to the 18th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE GUAL TRANSPORT OF GUSOVIT AND FOLLOWING AUTHORITIES AND DISTRIBUTION OF GUSOVIORS Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a vote. I put to the vote the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas hydrocarbons, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 123 declared themselves. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. For one, of 127 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 1st amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Industry Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 117 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Industry Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 100 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government has accepted the amendment. The Industry Committee didn't, but the government accepted. Of the 126 MPs, 107 voted in favour of the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. For one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Olena Papuga. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Of the 126 MPs, 118 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted this amendment. It is about the amendment that the Government and the Industry Committee have accepted. Of the 126 MPs, 100 MPs voted for the amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. The government and the Industry Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 104 are in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Amendment to Article 6(1), which refers to Article 15(2), as provided for in Article 15(2). The bill together was submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 16th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 17th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Industry Committee accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, 102 are in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 27th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Mirko Munjic submitted to the 34th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan M. Nikolic submitted to the 34th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. A member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Prophet of Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 35th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Zoran Babic, Zoran Antić, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kismarton, Bozidar Delic, Zoran Mašić, Mileta Poscurica and Sasa Maksimovic together submitted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 40th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Mirko Munjic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 126 MPs, for 100. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 41st amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Milan M. Nikolic submitted an amendment to Article 42. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas hydrocarbons, in general. I need to stop the vote, determine the quorum. Since we've established quorum, I'm putting to the vote the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas hydrocarbons, in general. Of the 126 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the draft law on pipeline transport of gas and liquid hydrocarbons and distribution of gas hydrocarbons. We move to the 19th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF THE RUDING LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act, in principle. Of 127 MPs, for 120. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Milan Nikolic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member be added in front of article 1. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. The government and the Industry Committee have accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, for 111. The amendment has been accepted. National MP Vitomir Plužarevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 1a be added after article 1. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antic and Dragan Colic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Nikolic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 4th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was filed by Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac and Arpad Fremond. Of 127 MPs, in 6. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Mihajlovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Radoslav Mojsilovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Lapčević. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Sinisa Stamenkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a. Of 127 MPs, for five. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Milan Lapčević submitted to the 9th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Nikola Savic. The government and the Industry Committee accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, for 108. The amendment has been accepted. Members of the 14th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antic and Dragan Colic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 15, was submitted by the Committee on Industry. Of 127 MPs, for 107. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Dragan Colic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Zoran Antic and Zoran Babic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirović, Ljiljana Miladanovic, Dragan Colic, Stefan Zankov, Otto Kišmarton, Zoran Antic and Zoran Babic Of 127 MPs, no one for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov, Zoran Antic and Dragan Colic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining Act in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. Of 127 MPs, 122 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed a bill amending and supplementing the Mining Act. We move to the 20th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COMMUNITY LAW IN THE COMMUNITY OF THE SOUTH ELECTRIVED Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 2nd amendment, with correction, was submitted by Dusan Maric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the termination of the Association Act in the Community of Yugoslav Electricity, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 123 voted in favour. The National Assembly passed the draft law to stop the application of the Association Act to the Yugoslav Electricity Community. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS ON TRADE IMPLEMENTS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, in principle. Of 127 MPs, all 127 voted in favour. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The first amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabaković. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, in general. Of the 127 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The National Assembly adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents. We move to item 22 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE SINGLE PURPOSE Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law on the Single Election List, in principle. Of the 127 MPs, it voted 125. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 90 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 97 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 7th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mileta Poscurica, Mico Rogovic and Jelena Budimirovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 105 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 94 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 108 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. My fellow MPs, I was going to suggest that once we have finished our plea under this law we take a half-hour break, but I'm asking you to concentrate a little more time to finish it. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 96 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Zoran Babic, Bozidar Delic, Mico Rogovic and Ljiljana Miladanovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by Jorgvanka Tabakovic, Zoran Antić, Mileta Poscurica, Jelena Budimirovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 110 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 105 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 94 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Otto Kišmarton, Mileta Poscurica, Zoran Antic and Ljiljana Miladanovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 107 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 100 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 102 voted for this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 15th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 16th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 113 voted in favour of this amendment. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 96 voted in favour of this amendment. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee accepted the amendment. Of the 127 MPs, Mr Batic's amendment voted 97. The National Assembly accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Munjic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 18th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 102 voted in favour of Mr Martinovic's amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 97 voted in favour of this amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Željko Tomic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 19th amendment, with correction, was filed by Boris Aleksic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, he voted 101 for the amendment. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Buh. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Verica Radet. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and article 21a be added after article 21. Of 127 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Please, we plead, but you can't see. Something's wrong. Right now, we are pleading on Mr Batic's amendment to Article 24, but you can't see it. Of the 127 MPs, 86 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 109 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, the vote was 106. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of 127 MPs, 107 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, he voted 101. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. The Rules of Procedure, the amendment to Rule 30, was submitted by the Committee on Justice and Administration. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 127 MPs, 109 voted in favour. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. National MPs Zoran Shami, Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalic and Zeljko Tomic submitted to the 30th amendment. Of 127 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the bill on the Single Election List, in general. Of the 127 MPs, all 127 voted yes. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the Single Election List. It's 14.10 p.m., 2:45 p.m., please begin.
