ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13751	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 116 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, please insert your identification cards into the Parliament units of the electronic system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milica Radovic, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Vlajko Senic and Gordana Rajkov. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND DEFINITIONS OF THE BUSINESS OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SREBIA (addition) National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13752	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of an article. 77th and 78th. Rules of Procedure. Yesterday, shortly before 10.00 hours, a session of the Administrative Committee began, 34th in a row, and the 1st item of the agenda was to consider the proposal for a decision by this pecuniary Rules of Procedure that has destroyed all democratic assets built in Serbia since 1990, since the introduction of the multi-party. However, what is important, Mrs Comic, point 9 and you start, and the unfinished sessions of the Administrative Committee were - a consideration of the resignations submitted by the authorised representative of the SRS electoral list - Dr Vojislav Seselj for three former SRS MPs and an excluded member, including Veroljub Arsic, Jelena Budimirović and Igor Bečić. The session began, with the explanation of Mr Konstantinovic, who is not here now, and therefore I am reporting, asking you as chairman to answer me – or Mrs Kolundzija, who was at that 35th later scheduled yesterday, to disabling or attempting to disabling the SRS, which you will not succeed – when the 34th session will continue and considering the resignations of former Members and returning the mandate of the SRS. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the SRS won close to 1,300,000 votes and our voter list of SRS -- Dr Vojislav Seselj won 78 parliamentary seats last May by the votes of Serbian citizens. Mrs Kolundzija, on several occasions, several months ago, when an attempt to crack organized by Americans, British, of course your Tadic and Serbian tycoons, Miskovic and others robbing Serbian citizens happened, you persistently insisted that we should bring before the Serbian Parliament's competent committee, because we found, or excluded Nikolic said he had stolen resignations from the pay phone. We have brought you, as prescribed by the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Constitution, Article 102 paragraph 2, resignations for these three outlaws and traitors from the SRS. What was going on before? Remember the case of Mr. Chonjagic or Mrs. Ilic. I mentioned them, I apologize, no matter which parties, former MPs G 17 plus, but remember such situations when, immediately, on the same day after the resignation and activation of the mandated motionary, a session of the Administrative Committee was held. You think that we are little children and that you can only play with what is the responsibility of the Administrative Committee and yours, as ruling coalitions, and you as DS, because you have a responsibility for the functioning of this Parliament. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm done. Do not then appear on the media throughout Serbia, in the printed media, telling us that the SRS is obstructing the work of the Assembly. That's what you guys do. Mrs. Komic, I'm asking you for an answer, I apologize for overcoming my time, I don't see Mr. Konstantinovic, as vice president of the Assembly who is helping you in your work, and I demand that you tell me... I would like to participate, although I am not a member of the Committee, in the session of the Administrative Committee and to finally put an end to the agenda and return three mandates to the Serbian Radicals. (President: Four minutes. ) Thank you, I'm sorry I overstepped.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13753	There is no violation of Article 77 or of Article 78, nor has the content of the presentation given any explanation of the infringement of the procedure during this session, particularly during the session of the Administrative Board. The only violation of the Rules of Procedure is a common violation of the chair and payphones, as it has spoken for a minute longer than is permitted by the Rules of Procedure. Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure to explain the infringement of the procedure where there is no infringement of the procedure, because it is an involvement in the violation of the procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zlata Djeric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, I have an obligation to appeal to the article. In 225 and 226, and I ask for information that is very urgent, because, as you say, life cannot wait. There are really areas they can't wait for. One of these is agriculture. It is very urgent for the citizens of Sombora to answer one question, given that in Sombor 10,000 ha Catastrian municipality, Alexa Shantic and Gakovo, the company Višnja Product and Milet Jerkovic were leased in two villages. The country that was leased three years ago, which has been bid again each year, has made a threem-euro debt, or threem euros based on the lease, not paid to this day. That is 1,200,000 debt to Sombor municipality, 900,000 euros in debt to Somboru, the province of Vojvodina and 900,000 euros in debt to the Republic of Serbia's budget. Citizens of Alexa Shantic and Gakov, the citizens of Sombora, are interested in who in the Ministry of Agriculture (I really expect this response very quickly) holds the guarantees of these tenants in the drawer, does not run them, and every year allows priority bids from the same debtors, if we know that in Sombor municipality every farmer who rented or bid the land paid the rent to the last dinar. No farmer in the Somborian municipality remained in debt. Given that the Ministry of the Interior has been very active around corrupt civil servants, we ask that it respond on this matter and the answer be forwarded urgently. Who in the Ministry of Agriculture hasn't released these two debtors' guarantees in two years?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13755	Do they want the word of the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of Article 27 and on Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Yesterday, I have repeatedly drawn attention to what is happening in public these days, and it concerns amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to an incredible replacement of the thesis that is coming, of course, from the DS, and most of all in the media by the head of the ZES parliamentary group, Mrs Nada Kolundzhija, who has repeatedly violated her statements in the media in the most harsh way, or insulted the dignity of the National Assembly. Mrs. Kolundjia, there is no such thing as that, and that applies to all those who are trying to show in the media why it is necessary to change seven members of the Rules of Procedure in this way, instead of passing a law on the National Assembly, so that the Rules of Procedure can come out of the law, which is only legally possible... You're only going to choke on public words, to choke on the word of the people, because we represent the people here. By proposing this Rules of Procedure, you are trying to prevent SRS MPs from speaking to the public of Serbia about topics that are current at a given time. You're trying to show that there's a conflict in parliament, you say, the SRS and some other radicals. So, in the SRS, I don't know which way to repeat it, there's no conflict. The SRS has a dispute with the DS in parliament because the Democratic Party, as ruling and as a pillar of the ruling coalition, does not want to do what is required by the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is that the resignations of the three former SRS MPs are held at the meeting of the Administrative Committee. You, Mrs. Kolundjia, are acting in public like we're a bunch of lunatics who are currently missing drugs, so you're going to calm us down. "We tried," you say, "to calm the radicals, who lost the man who ran their campaign. Otherwise, there'd be blood. "Mrs. Kolundjia, are you aware of what you say? We never produced blood on the street, nor in front of the National Assembly, we didn't burn the Assembly, we didn't vote from Bodrum, we didn't force the entire assembly group, we never used non-democratic means, we won't use any further. With all democratic means, we will fight, Mrs Kolundzija, against the Democratic Party, against the dictatorship of Boris Tadic... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. We will fight for the will of the citizens of Serbia and for the 78 mandates of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13757	There's no breach of Article 27, no breach of Article 104. Article 104 defines the damage to the reputation of the National Assembly or the demeanor during the session of the Assembly. Please don't try to leave out an explanation when we get word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because there was no harm to the Rules of Procedure or in the explanation of the People's Parliament of the Prophet Radete. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group. You're looking for a word by...? National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand, Mrs Comic, that you are in a hurry to move to the agenda, but before you move to the agenda, you have to explain to the MPs how is it possible for the session of the Administrative Committee to begin yesterday, the 34th session, that from the 10 points of the agenda, only one session should be terminated, and then a new session, the 35th session, and that the previous session of the Administrative Committee is not completed? I think it's a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of Article 79. Yesterday, we drew your attention to the fact that the chairman of the Administrative Board of Nenad Konstantinovic, whether on purpose or not, wanted to deceive the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, because he submitted a report that the Administrative Committee was at a session held on February 10th to discuss changes to the Rules of Procedure and took a certain position. That session, Mrs. Comic, just started, it's not over. Until the session was completed, the chairman of the Administrative Board could not submit any report. You have found one Solomonian solution to escape from solving a key problem in the National Assembly, which is stealing the mandate of the SRS, by realizing that you would stop the session at five to ten with an explanation that a session of the National Assembly would begin. We had a situation here a few days ago that the National Assembly sessions were moved not for an hour, but for three or four hours, because of Nadal, because of Federer, tennis, etc. And just yesterday, February 10th, when we were to resolve the issue of these kidnapped mandates, the session was scheduled to begin at exactly 10:00 p.m. and it couldn't be moved in an hour. You remember, Mrs Nada Kolundzija has now come out, when the political crisis in Serbia's parliament has created what both Nenad Konstantinovic and Nada Kolundzija have said -- there, they have been fighting radicals, what we can do. Do you have any blank resignations? If you don't, what do we do now? Then we had firm assurances -- when you deliver the papers, the MP's statements, the blank resignations, we'll have a session of the Administrative Board in 24 hours and we'll sort it out. Mrs. Comic, on January 19th, Mr. Dragan Todorovic, as an authorised representative of the SRS, also submitted statements by former MPs and blank resignations. Here, today is February 11th, and the question of those three mandates has not been resolved yet. With these amendments to the Rules of Procedure you're proposing, I apologize, I know it's been a while, but I'll be done in a few seconds, you'll absolutely not solve anything. The crisis in parliament cannot be resolved by bringing changes to the Rules of Procedure in a hidduk way, in a raid. You need to resolve the matter of mandate and stop political crime in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13759	People's MP, no harm done to article 79. The Management Board has been appointed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and has run in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Other committees that submitted the reports had several agenda points and provided reports that MPs would be informed of what the board members felt about the amendments or the draft laws in principle. National MP Natasa Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13760	Mrs. Comic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting again because I consider them to be a broken member of 79th and 80th. Rules of Procedure. Article 79. The Rules of Procedure discusses the work of the Committee's session, determines how the session takes place, how the principle debate is conducted, then in particular, and how decisions are taken by the members of the Committee present. Article 80 provides that each session of the committee shall keep the minutes, paragraph 2, says: "The minutes shall include the names of the present and absent members of the committee and the names of the other participants of the sitting", which shall be us who are not members of the committee, "the oral and written proposals, the views of the committee, the result of each vote, each opinion, and the rapporteurs designated by the Committee". I'm asking you and the Secretary of the National Assembly to send me the minutes of the 34th session, you will begin the meetings of the Administrative Board. From that record, you will see clearly, Mrs Comic, that a member of 79 has been broken and that the Committee has not completed the 34th session, but has resorted to this decision to avoid at that point in time deciding on point 9. The 34th session, which is the activation of the resignations of former SRS deputies. Therefore, you will see from that record that we are right when we claim that you are violating the rules and Rules of Procedure, which you now want to change in this way. You didn't give us the opportunity to talk to the members of the Administrative Board about 13.00 hours later about the 34th session points. I was amazed at the moment I came in and sat next to Mr Mirovic and I asked – what is this about? The man showed me the agenda and said – we are now at the 35th session, and at that moment Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic said that it is during the 34th and that we will take a break in work and continue when the 34th session is over. Mrs Kolundžija, in the minutes of the 35th session, which could not have been held before all these points were completed, this will clearly be seen, on the direct issue of Dejan Mirovic to Committee President Nenad Konstantinovic when he will decide on the other points, when the 34th session of the Committee will continue... He insisted on considering the issue of resignations that, you know, I repeat again, were never a problem; the same day that the authorised representative activates them they must, as a rule, be on the agenda. He is now gone, as he has fled for a month since Mr. Todorovic, or when our party activated the resignations of the SRS list - Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Therefore, you will see from the record that Article 79 has been broken, that the Committee has not completed its meeting, and Constantinovic said it will be today. On two of our questions he said – the 34th session of the Administrative Committee. I ask for an answer when will the session continue to be discussed and that, in accordance with the Constitution, the law, and the Rules of Procedure, the resignations will be activated so that three Serbian radicals, Shessel's radicals, can take their place in the parliamentary benches?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13761	There's no violation of Article 79, or of Article 80, or you've explained the breach of the procedure in the presentation. Requesting to receive a record is not the basis for a breach of the procedure because you were not prevented from receiving the record. The Continuing Meeting of Information may first be given by the Chairman of the Committee whose session is under way. All that you have called for is no explanation that the procedure has been violated by any member of the Rules of Procedure during the work of the Administrative Board, and especially not during this session. Please, if we are already getting a word on the basis of Article 100, to make sure that the content of our presentation contains an explanation of the procedural injury, that is, the injury of a member, and not just a cause for us to express our political position, which is legal and legitimate, but also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13762	The Honorable Chairman, I report on the basis of Article 101, since I am here on several occasions not only warned, attacked, accused of various things, but also asked me to give some answers. I would like to say that the chairman of the Administrative Committee, as he said yesterday on the Administrative Committee, who called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure... So, the 34th session of the Administrative Board was called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, her work was interrupted also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure; the 35th session was scheduled and held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and he said yesterday at that session that the 34th session would be held today and he scheduled that session for 15.00 hours today. I think you know very well that there's no need to do what you're doing, on the one hand, and on the other hand, if that's an excuse for us not to go over to the agenda, then you explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13763	Article 101 implies the right to reply and the right to receive words and is the basis of reporting, so that the MP and I agree that it is not a matter of calling for a breach of any member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13764	I'm reporting because members 101 and 104 have been violated. What you're saying, Mrs. Kolundjia, shows all the misery and misery you're in. This is good for the citizens of Serbia, to see how you behave. You have only one goal -- to deceive the citizens of Serbia, to deceive the MPs of the Serbian Parliament. You're talking about someone being obstructed by the congregation, you're talking about the cost of the session being large, you're all saying what you're doing, or you're starting to do. All day long in the SRS Assembly and MPs from other parties tried to tell you to violate the Rules of Procedure, to abuse your majority by not acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I don't understand why you don't do it at all. Do you think you'll fool the citizens of Serbia? You won't. I think the citizens of Serbia are fully aware of who they're dealing with, these are just nuances. You're trying in every way possible to create an illusion of how you're supposed to be working on the Rules of Procedure, you've put certain agenda points on the Administrative Board, you've put the question of those three terms as the ninth point, and then you realize you've stopped sitting on the Administrative Board and you're continuing on the 35th, and now you're saying you've scheduled for 15.00 hours, and I had information that it's scheduled for 14.00 hours. Who can trust you at all? Why don't you do what you think you should do? You won't, because Serbian citizens will see clearly your political deal with those who tried to execute a coup in the SRS, that all their assumptions have failed, that you have to return or you don't have to return those three mandates at all. Essentially, it means nothing to us, means only that the Constitution is respected, that the Rules of Procedure is respected and that everything that has been done so far in the Serbian Parliament is respected. But you won't, you'd like to remain honest, but just in case, you always charge your own favor. Mrs. Kolundjia, you can't do that. You must go before the citizens of Serbia and do what you think you should do, do not try to deceive both us and the citizens of Serbia. That's the base here. You are essentially cheating on both Serbian citizens and the Serbian Parliament, or MPs, and that is clear to everyone now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13765	People's MP, there's no breach of Article 104, nor in your explanation, we can see for the stenogram, in one single word, a reasoned violation of Article 104 in one of the views. The MP says I'll understand when I'm a good interpreter. I am very good at interpreting and I can give an additional explanation that it is very clear from the course of this session, as well as from before, that our silent agreement implies that on behalf of future good relations and future awareness that the National Assembly is a common responsibility of the opposition and the ruling majority of the opposition MPs given, during the conduct of each session, the right to abuse and violate the Rules of Procedure. Once again, I ask you, if we get a word based on article 100, to try and bring at least so much respect to our own rules of procedure in this institution that we can at least explain in one sentence what the injury of a member and procedure is contained and then use it for two minutes and 45 seconds to explain our political position rather than for the injury of the procedure. The People's Parliament gave information about the continuation of the session, you gave information that you know there are meetings today, several MPs today asked when the session would continue. I ask you not to demean the National Assembly, that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure beyond the measure on which there is a silent agreement when it comes to use and abuse, because then you leave no room for anything but to express a measure. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13766	I report for breach of Rules of Procedure 100, 101 and 104. Some political deals are being discussed here, and all of you from the SRS are trying to present to Serbian citizens that the SNS has some dealings with the Democratic Party and that you are victims of these deals. Let me remind you of another brilliant statement from your president yesterday, who is here from this pay phone, speaking of deals, told DS representatives - you who do not keep the agreement and promises, from now on we will be different with you. I'm witnessing these agreements with the Democratic Party, and since I understand politics differently from you, I think you're absolutely right when you talk to anyone, especially those who run the assembly, the state. I don't call it pesoriatic political deals, I think it's co-operation in the mutual interest. We don't have any dealings with anyone. Don't talk about foreign embassies, stay away from the tycoons, stay out of the story of betrayal because everything you've accused me of, for God's sakes, I've made a great sin, you've been working hard for two months. The session at which the Budget Law was passed is a sign of how you interpret your behavior in relation to others. There's nothing more to talk about. As for the session of the Administrative Committee, I would like it to be continued today and that the only point be those mandates of the three Members of Parliament. Neither are the mandates of the SRS, nor are the mandates of the SNS, and I daren't, like you who think you're big, to say that it means absolutely nothing to us, it means a lot to us, but these are the mandates of three MPs, and these three MPs no longer want to be members of the SRS, the SRS parliamentary group, and they want to keep their mandates. You can stop the Assembly as long as they allow you to. That's how it's gonna be, and you know it very well. You better think about nepotism in your ranks, about the crime in your ranks, about how seven-eight of you here, who have grown into various kinds of bribery and corruption, and I can see that it's all stored and packed and that soon, and that it will be announced to you, that you are seducing other MPs who know nothing about it and participate in this whole court because someone is saying - today everybody raise the Rules of Procedure to talk about the Rules of Procedure. What exactly are you talking about here? You'll see what you're talking about, you're talking about the twilight of ideas I've been propagating and implementing with you in the SRS. What do you look like now, what ideology you look like now, except for that... (President: Speak for three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... Some curse me as I pass, and some come to me culturally and kindly. I wasn't good for you as chairman of the Administrative Board. Now I'm telling you that this session would already be over. You wanted the president of the DS, now watch what happens. During the speech of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13767	National MP, you did not give an explanation for the violation of Articles 100, 101 and 104 during the procedure. I apologize for not being able to apply Article 27 and to take care of order during the session of the National Assembly, because a certain number of MPs consider their natural and higher rights than the rest of us that while you and some other MPs are talking about inventory cases. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic throws it away, please do not do this because it is a violation of Article 104. The People's Parliament says - please. The common will is to have the Rules of Procedure applied. Your will to believe that it is your political and business right to treat all MPs through the beating of inventory cases and to at the same time consider your right to seek and receive a word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and not to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure is a state of which there is no pre-silent agreement. Please do not abuse the members of the Rules of Procedure who allow the giving of words and do not create the possibility to apply Article 106 - the expression of measures, which are deserved by the application of Article 106, which prescribes the pronunciation of measures. National MP Vladan Batic has his word, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word on Article 100(1), so MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13768	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising member injury 27. The president of the National Assembly, among other things, should take care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly. For months, we've been hearing controversy about disputed mandates. Why isn't the board meeting scheduled, and why isn't that Gordy knot cut? Why would all other MPs be hostages for months, why would Serbian citizens be hostages for months? What's the problem with having a board meeting scheduled and deciding how? I urge both the President of the Assembly and the ruling coalition to address the problem. We can't listen to that for months. The ruling majority and the president of the assembly are the most responsible, the most time here is spent around it, because there is no courage, no courage, I don't know what's not there. I want to use the remaining time and ask the Minister of Ecology and the Minister of Economy for a notice. You've all heard that it's decided to build TA "Nikola Tesla 3" and "Colabar B" immediately to give it to foreigners for two billion euros and then we'll all live happily ever after and all our problems will be solved. I ask the question, what was the last thermopower plant built in Europe, in any civilized country of Europe? The "Nikola Tesla" power plants are ecological genocide. I'm looking for information from the Minister of Ecology how many times above the allowable air, water, land are polluted. A dozen times over the limit. I ask the Minister of Health - what is the percentage of cancerous diseases, multiple increases in the territory of Obrenovac and Lazarec, the disease of respiratory organs? Djelic and Dinkic want to build power plants. Let them go live in the mouth or those villages where they can't live. Where was the last thermal power plant built in Europe? I want an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13769	The People's Parliament, the announcement of the course and of the continuation of the session of the Administrative Board was given during this session, so that there is no breach of Article 27, and your request for notification will be forwarded. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13770	I report because the injured member of 103rd and 3rd position of Article 104: "The MPs of the people are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. The use of offensive expressions is not permitted, nor is it allowed to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, you have had the opportunity to see essentially what the rat Boris Tadic means. Whenever Boris Tadic needs to do something dirty against the SRS, he resorts to his crutches and then, instead of doing it, Boris Tadic, that's what his crutches do. The DS has options, and he probably knows how to find these kind of crutches, and they're undeniable facts. If that were true, you've had a chance to see the last few days many times. Rats are offered to all, almost, no longer knows what to do, now they are offered to all, and to the Democratic Party of Serbia, and to the Democratic Party again and to New Serbia, they want to co-operate with all, even to the Serbian Radical Party. My people, is that possible? Is it possible that a man from this pay phone says he won't rest until he destroys the SRS, and according to the paper, we can co-operate with the SRS. She's gone downhill. It is not that man, from him says Aleksandar Vukic, Boris Tadic or Miki Rakic, the one who needs him at that time. Boris Tadic's working group session on the transfer of Serbian Parliament sessions -- no opposition party sits there except for the crutches, because it is necessary for Serbian citizens to see that everything is okay, legally, legitimately, sitting representatives of the position, some, as reportedly, the opposition, fully paints for them as they need them. As with the Administrative Board, such as all fraud, only fraud. You wouldn't have been so successful in these scams if you didn't find people like this who do these dirty jobs for you. They thought they'd do a much worse, much harder job; fortunately they didn't, they completely failed, and now they're just slowly sinking deeper until they go to the place that belongs to them, which is the historical dump.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13771	People's MP, no harm done. 103 and 104, nor did you explain, in any part, the infringement of the procedure, or attitudes of the article. 103 and 104. National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). People's MPs ask why MP Vladan Batic. Because there is a silent agreement that the presidents of the parliamentary groups, deputy presidents of parliamentary groups, authorised representatives and MP Vladan Batic have the advantage when they report for the word and want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. That's one of the deals we made. Excuse me, MP, for waiting during notice of the reasons why you're getting your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13772	I was offered what Mr. Dragan Todorovic said. Just one explanation for a few seconds. I attended the start of a working group meeting on television transmissions. When I saw there were no representatives of opposition parties there, I left the task force's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13773	People's MPs, at least for the second time, should we call on any member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured because such a course of work implies that some MPs have much more rights than some other MPs, and these same MPs who have significantly greater rights are called upon not to have enough rights, unlike those whose rights are reduced because some MPs have a little more rights. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd just like to ask Dragan Todorovic how I'm going to run the SNS. I offer co-operation to the opposition parties because it is obvious that Serbia is in crisis. When these parties on this side, too, were completely different, this crisis came together, how come we in opposition the right not to co-operate against the authorities, which shoots at the seams, and the question is, when are we going to have a chance to go to new elections? I'm not angry that Mr. Todorovic uses offensive expressions when it comes to me. This speaks more of him and his relationship with the people he knew and was friends with. I'm just saying, no one's gonna be able to call me on the phone anymore, so let me tell you, you're not gonna do it like that, you're gonna do it differently. I took off the back of a large stone exam in The Hague, which is now loaded on your back and on the back of those who shouldn't wear it, which they must. I'm my own judge now. Prosperity group Forwards is running Serbia's own policy. You're not the rapper who's in the opposition and who's not. You can't define that. If I'm Boris Tadic's rat, which donkey made a terrible deal with him, so Boris Tadic didn't keep his promises to him? (At the time of the presentation of MP Tomislav Nikolic, the MPs of the SRS were banging on the benches. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13775	People's MP, you haven't explained what the breach of the procedure is, nor did you indicate which member was injured. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Once again, I apologize to Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic for the inability to apply Article 27, which implies taking care of the session's order and once again I ask the MPs who consider their right to violate Article 104 by their political stance that they do not do so while the session takes place and while any MP is speaking on the basis of what he has been told by the Rules of Procedure. I apologize, MP, for waiting, but the question of the credibility of the whole process is a serious problem here because you're asking that some rules apply only to you and not to others. I'm forced to explain that it's inadmissible and that it's a breach of procedure. I'm sorry again for waiting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13776	I've already told you several times that I highly appreciate your way of managing the Serbian Parliament. I understand that you want to explain everything that's going on, how much you're able to do. I'm also aware of the fact that often the situation is such that it's hard for anyone to describe everything that's going on in a different way. I'm reporting to Article 104, just to say I'm glad the crutches were recognized, and Tadic was talking to a donkey before she became a crutch.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13777	There's no breach of Article 104. I'd say it was an injury. I implore the Members of the People to address their own address with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Vesna Pesic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13778	I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 104, an insult to the National Assembly of Serbia. It's the second day we've come to talk about changes to the Rules of Procedure. As far as LDP is concerned, we have taken the principle that the Rules of Procedure should have been amended in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, but the amendments to the Rules of Procedure that we have proposed relate to the fundamental changes of the Rules of Procedure in order to make the procedure modern, to be accelerated. The main criticism was not to pass laws fast enough. We had a type of procedure that was not invented by the Liberal-Democratic Party, but that speed of the adoption of European laws was applied in Croatia and Slovenia, countries that were successful and quickly passed European laws, which is what your intervention and imposition of the Rules of Procedure refers to. Yesterday, Mrs. Kolundjia, you said that these are fundamental changes and cannot be accepted. It's absurd. You need your imposed, cosmetic changes, which really won't lead to a better and more efficient functioning of parliament... This is why – because there are certain conflicts in Parliament itself, which must be resolved whenever the problem arises, regardless of these cosmetic changes. I ask the question, why don't you respect the objections the SRS has? Why are you holding us for the second day and what is Mr. Nenad Konstantinovic doing? Does he have any lawyer jobs? What does he do, not business here? Why don't you respect the order? Trust me, adopting the Constitution, Article 102, that's a disaster. You gave everything, you made a party state. The presidents of the parties are making a parliamentary list of 250 MPs. They say who will enter parliament. Now you're making changes, too, by killing every MP, by giving MPs and party heads more power than there is an MP, and we're not even in this regard. I can't understand, Mr. Batic, who doesn't have a group, twice waiting for him to speak in front of me, I don't know what rule that is. And these changes are going that way. Now really explain to me why and what Nenad Konstantinovic is doing. Why doesn't he schedule this Administrative Committee? Do they have those three blank resignations? Believe me, I'm sick of the blank resignations, so the MP in advance will sign to return it to the MPs' club and the party. It means there is no such thing as an individual, that there is no representation, that we have taken away the sovereignty of citizens through the blank resignations. You're the one who introduced the blank resignations. We didn't introduce blanco resignations. It wasn't the Liberal Democratic Party that introduced it. Now that they have blank resignations, when they have the right under the law to return those three parliamentary mandates, you do not schedule, because Mr Nenad Konstantinovic has other jobs and will schedule at 3 p.m. to explain to the citizens why we will be sitting until 3 p.m. Because Nenad Konstantinovic has other things to do. Why wasn't that done? (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm against that principle, but it's a disaster that you have other things to do and that you've been distracting us here for the second day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13779	National MPs, you did not explain the procedural violation of Article 104 and the information on the course of the session of the Administrative Committee has been repeated several times. I ask all MPs who are in the O.R., and those who are not to in any way inform themselves that the continuation of the session of the Administrative Board today is at 15.00 p.m. and that we do not abuse... Or 2:00 p.m., whenever it's scheduled. You have received, the MPs are getting that they have not received the call, the information you asked for from the president of the ZES parliamentary group and the representatives of the promoters. So we're looking for a word based on article 100 to get information about when a nine-point session will be scheduled. We got that information, but that's no reason to stop asking when the sequel will be scheduled. The answer will likely be given as many times as you use the Rules of Procedure. This way, all those who intend to ask once again when the session will be scheduled, I warn that this will be the basis for the application of Article 106 for disrespect, disrespecting the course of the session of the National Assembly and for giving criminality. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13780	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I risk getting a warning, but I really have to ask you, Mrs. Comic, when will the meeting of the Administrative Committee be scheduled?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13781	I give you the first warning as a measure of violation of the warning given because you have received twice the information when there will be an extension of the session of the Administrative Board. That information was made public for the National Assembly speaker and your exposure is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, violation of procedures, disrespect of the National Assembly and disrespect of the warning given by the chairman that such abuse will be sanctioned by giving a warning measure. Please continue to take care of the content of your presentation and to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, King Milan shot the radicals, and here, Boris Tadic, it hasn't occurred yet, but who knows, maybe that'll happen one day. Mrs. Comic, again I risk getting a warning, you said – the session is scheduled first for 15.00 hours, so in 1400 hours, so now I ask you Serbian – is it 14:00 or 15.00 hours? What time is the meeting of the Administrative Board scheduled? How is it that the head of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia officially informs the MPs – you know, the session is scheduled? Does the Management Board have a president? Since when has the head of the parliamentary group been solemnly informing the MPs – the session of this and that committee has been scheduled in so many and so many hours? You're in a dilemma yourself. You yourself need to give yourself a warning, because first you say – the session is scheduled for 14.00 hours, so the session is scheduled for 15.00 hours. I'm asking you now, Serbian, is it 2:00 or 3:00? Can you answer me?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13783	People's MP, I warn you to continue to violate the Rules of Procedure and that this is a warning before giving a second warning. Please don't do this anymore. The explanation of the time the MP delivers is the decision of the chairman and what I am doing now is on your express request. So, the People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija, president of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, has been asked by your colleagues several times when a session of the Administrative Committee will continue. The People's Parliament, as you can see in the stenogram, said it would be at 3 p.m. The president of your parliamentary group said they'd be at 1400 hours and they have that information. Afterwards, I said that I would ask you to stop misusing the right to receive words when, apparently, MPs from the SRS Group have information about when there will be a continuation of the session of the Administrative Committee, and only after the president of the parliamentary group has, on your request, given the information that it will be at 15.00 hours. So, once again, and now, on your request, the chairman, the Continuing session of the Administrative Committee is today, February 11th, at 3 p.m. You have one minute and ten seconds to explain the procedure of which is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and on which you received your word. Please know that you are in a position to use your minute after the second warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am now asking Mrs Gordana Comic to tell me in which member of the Rules of Procedure she writes that the head of any parliamentary group is informing the MPs that a session has been scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13785	People's messenger, I give you a second warning. The way you treat the right to receive a word is inappropriate and is a disdain for the National Assembly, it is a demeaning of the information you request and it is a violation of the reputation of the National Assembly, and on the basis of Article 106, I give you a second warning. Please, for the rest of your time at your disposal, for one minute, compare your exposure to the rules that are written in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and which bind us all.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13786	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have nothing more to say, Mrs Gordana Comic has told herself everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13787	National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13788	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, I am advocating Article 27, which regulates the way in which one chaires the session of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. I would ask you, for the sake of your conscience, to read a stenogram relating to part of the session before Mr Martinovic came out, when you were giving an explanation at which time the session of the Administrative Committee was scheduled. You mentioned two times, 14.00 and 15.00 hours, even I threw it out of place -- whether one or the other, you went over it, because because there is no call for a session of the Administrative Committee, there is no; it does not exist on the advertising board, we have now checked, it does not exist in the parliamentary group. Maybe, I'm not running away from it, Hope Kolundzija knows it, but it doesn't mean anything to you, I guess it's clear, Mrs. Komic, that it absolutely means nothing until it enters the procedure. You see, and when a session of the Administrative Board or Assembly is scheduled, it doesn't mean anything at all. It means it will begin, and when it is finished, what will be adopted etc., it all depends on the course of the committee session or session of the Serbian Parliament. We point to that all the time, what you of the Democratic Party are doing, what the chairman of the Administrative Committee is doing. He's probably following orders, by order of someone outside this congregation, I have absolutely no dilemma at all. He puts all of you, MPs of the Democratic Party, in this position. What's he doing that for? I don't know, someone has these interests, but I'm sure it's not your interests to sit here and listen to all these problems from day to day, and they can very easily be solved on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Someone obviously doesn't want to, and you're the hostages of it, even bringing Gordana Komic to the situation that she is absolutely without any reason giving notice to the MPs. So to be clear, if you want, politically we're okay with it, you're in such a situation that you just don't know what to do anymore. You guys make a deal, ask what you have to do, and once you know if there's a board, there's no board, what you're gonna do. You gave me some information, for example, for a session of the National Assembly, when it comes to the agenda, it turns out that you were kind of disavowed. Do you remember that? I don't think you did it on purpose at all, but it's facts. What will you do if the session is scheduled for 1600 hours, or 13.00 hours or 14.00 hours? Then you should apologize to Mr. Martinovic, apologize, Mrs. Comic, because you've got all this mixed up. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm done. Mr. Martinovic received absolutely unnecessarily two warnings. I'm sorry about this extension.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13789	There's no damage to article 27. Expressing the measure is the discretionary authority of the chairman. With a stenogram you can exercise control of how it is and whether, in accordance with the procedure, the first one was given, and the second warning to the MP who did not want to listen to the warning given the second time, and before receiving the word under Article 100(1). The call for a session, which you're talking about in your presentation, interpreting it as a breach of procedure, exists. It's about the captain. It's about a request from the MPs to find out what time it's gonna be. The answer is that you had one answer, and the MP's second answer, the whole assembly was informed. For the third time, I warn, any kind of word-seeking on the basis of Article 100 so as to explain as a violation of the procedure how information was received that the continuation of the session is scheduled for today at 15.00 hours will be considered an act of disrespect of the National Assembly, of the information we share here and of the basis for a warning measure based on Article 106. National MP Nikola Savic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 104. Before that, I must admit that I am very unhappy to go out for this pay phone when Mrs Comic is chaired. Yesterday, I was in a position to have Mrs. Comić take my word from me after five or ten seconds I spent behind this pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13791	People's MP, you can't tell the lies behind the speaker of the National Assembly. I'm obliged to warn you of that. No word was taken from you during yesterday's work day. Taking words is a third step in expressing criminal measures for violating the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So the first step is to give the first warning after warning to stop violating one of the members of the Rules of Procedure. After giving the first warning, the second warning, which is made after the second warning to stop breaching the provisions, follows. The third measure is to take words, the most drastic and worst measure that can be said in any parliament. You asked for a word yesterday, came for a pay phone and said you were asking a parliamentary question. During the session yesterday and not today, I told you: "You have no right to speak, on the basis of Article 100(1).". Please, when you look for a word, concentrate on what an injury is and how you will explain the injury of the procedure when you get the word. Here you go, and I warn you not to be false about the National Assembly's pay phone, because it's a violation of Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13792	Mrs. Comic, when you chair the Assembly, and I'm behind this pay phone, I really feel a kind of mobbing that you're doing on me. That's why I'm getting off the phone right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13793	People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13794	Dear fellow Members of the People, Madam Chairman, I have had the opportunity in one term to sit in your seat and to replace sometimes the President of the Assembly. Believe me, I've never allowed myself what you allow yourself, but it goes on your soul. I'd just like you to meet the Rules of Procedure after all. You represent yourself as a person who knows the Rules of Procedure well, what did Mr. Martinovic do in order for you to give him a warning? Find an alias that applies to him and I'll say you're absolutely right. As far as the parliamentary majority is concerned, the question is raised here, but it has been raised since 2000, who in this country is stronger and more significant, who is above whom, whether the Constitution is above Hope Kolundzija, whether the law above Hope of Kolundzhija, or what has already been called some previous head of the DOS parliamentary group or the current ZES, or perhaps the President of the Assembly or vice president of the Assembly is stronger than the Constitution and the law? This is how it is done in this country, and that is why it is allowed to vote from Bodrum, to vote from Thessaloniki, and to throw out an entire parliamentary group from this parliament and to have over 300 MPs for a time. It doesn't bother anyone, it's nobody's burden. You throw that burden away, move on and show yourself in the best light. In what light? What is it that awaits us in the future, what is it that we are disturbing you to bring here? What are European laws? By May 1st, you have the deadline to direct to this assembly the laws that the European Agency which controls overflights and runs across our country require us to bring in to comply with these regulations, so that we do not run out of flight control over our sky. Do you know how much money we lose if we don't pass those laws? That's 70m euros. I believe there are people here who understand this problem, but I also warn the government. What's the government doing? There are no laws like that. It is likely that Bulgaria will control, as is controlled by Macedonia, and we will throw 70 million away. Let me tell you something, not that you're going to return these three terms, but you're going to return everything, 21 terms, otherwise you're politically dead. You'll be gone after the next election, because the citizens won't forgive you. They are not the voices of the SRS, individually each of us, they are the voices of politics and ideologies of the SRS. Citizens expected us in that number to advocate what we had promised before the elections, and this new "Atlantic star" you created, which is offered to you, Mr. Micunovic says, "We are offered little to us, a little to Kostunica"... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. ) Kostunica cannot see, spit in Kostunica. I was there when he treated him with disgust, and Kostunica knows it. He wants to use you, of course, to get those mentors of yours. You are threatened and you know very well that you are threatened by him. So take good care of your political future, don't worry about ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13795	National MPs, you have not directly listed a member of the Rules of Procedure who you consider to have been injured. You asked for an explanation to give a warning measure based on article 106. The final position: "if other procedures violate the order at the session or act against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure", and item 3: "if, despite the warning of the National Assembly, it speaks of a question that is not on the agenda". By seeing the stenogram, you will see that I have twice given a warning regarding disrespect for the National Assembly. By abuse of the right to receive the word to speak about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic, despite warnings, violated order and insisted on the time of the meeting of the Administrative Committee. National MP Vitomir Plužarevic throws away, which is also a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please do not consider the provisions of the Rules of Procedure to be valid only for the chairman, to apply them with severe torment, and not to Members of the SRS MPs. It shall apply to all Members of Parliament, and to Article 104, Article 101, Article 100, Article 103 and Article 106. Since you have asked whether one of us is above the law, no, but neither are SRS MPs above the rights and obligation to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, because she is not satisfied with the explanation. No matter what member of the Rules of Procedure you have not said has been injured, you will now... He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13796	Mrs. Komic, I call on Article 104. You really insult my dignity and my common sense. I gave you a nice warning on article 106. Since you don't want to read it, I'll read it for the public, because you can't share the pucks here and push the MPs into a corner if you want to. We're not your students, we're the people's representatives here. As you treat Mr. Martinovic, you treat the 20,000 voters behind him. Therefore, the first indent of Article 106: "The warning is given to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly", you invited him to go out for a pay phone, "which speaks before he has asked and received a word", he did not, you gave him the word, "who, despite the warning of the National Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda". He called on a certain member of the Rules of Procedure and asked what he asked, and you couldn't give him an answer, because you were just this moment, I saw, I got a call and you know what it was about. You couldn't give him an answer to that question, freaked out that you didn't know what was going on, because you didn't deal with Hope Kolundji before when it was going to be, and it doesn't matter, the board was scheduled for us when it was attached to the ad board, when each of us 250 could go to that board, it's our parliamentary right. Then: "if you interrupt the speaker in the presentation or throws, or interferes with the speaker or otherwise endangers freedom of speech", you did so, Mrs. Komic, you should have given yourself a warning, "if it presents facts and assessments relating to the private life of others", which he did not do, "if he uses curses and offensive expressions". There was a "Atlantic star", a citizen, a Nikolic, who called someone a donkey, and you didn't react here. Please make sure you're able to sit where you're sitting.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13797	You forgot to read the final position of article 106. Rules of Procedure. He's on the next page of the Rules of Procedure. When you turn the page, there's another view of the 106 I've read. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement about it? Therefore, the MP wants the Assembly to declare whether the chairman has violated Article 106 by giving warning measures. It is my obligation to inform both the MPs and all those who will vote that giving the measure is a discretionary right of the chairman and that it cannot be marked by violating any provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as well as giving the right to replication. Expressing the measures is a discretionary right precisely because of the sensitivity of the process that you give a warning measure, in every parliament unpopular, as well as here, and is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. As giving the replica is a discretionary right of the chairman and is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because the chairman has an obligation to appreciate whether anyone has a basis for replication or not. National MP Tomislav Ljubenovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13798	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Art. 225 and 226. Instead of having a far more liberal Rules of Procedure, to enable MPs to present all those topics that are current in the environments from which their voters' demands come and present in the Assembly, in the highest legislative body, we have a far more restrictive proposal of the Rules of Procedure, which makes it impossible to do so. Imagine, in two minutes we need to present one amendment, in one quality way, so that the ruling majority accepts it. Is that possible? It's perfectly normal that it's impossible. I would love for someone from the ruling majority to show up with such a thesis that in two minutes it can successfully present and be convincing. I think you want to put us in a position to convince those who aren't convincing. I come from a middle that has extremely big problems and this time I represent only one part of the woodwork community, the southern part. When it comes to Corridor 10, out of importance for the southern part of the impertinent municipality, which means that in some way the breadth of the housewives is when it comes to the Corridor 10 and going out to Prediana and of great importance to the citizens of Predejana is exactly the object that is part of the township, which is located... The citizens presented this by Minister Mrkonjic, Minister of Infrastructure, was presented to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Environment, Oliver Dulic; I will also present the requirements I have for you to present them to the Government. So, the facility is of great importance and has 130 employees; simply, the existence of this populated place is tied to the Predejane Motel. For what reason do I say that? In a way, the owner of the Predejana motel is one of the most successful privates in the impasse municipality. This means, if we treat successful privates positively, we are in a way encouraging other privates who want to invest to be present in the territory of the impertinent municipality. The fact is that just in Leskovac, where the DS in the 2001 election campaign presented a pilot project to start development from the south of the most developed municipality, we have a catastrophic situation. What part? Because it just doesn't work for any company. We have about 13,000 unemployed workers, we have potentially about 23,000 workers working, but they're just going to work... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. ) I apologize, I would like to ask you something else, I cannot ask you any more, I would just like to deliver to you the decisions of the Assembly of the City of Leskovaz Minister Dulic, for Minister Mrkonjic and for the Government, precisely on the importance and decision of the City of Leskovec Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13799	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I will not ask you at all when the session of the Administrative Committee will be held. Yesterday, I was present at 34 and at 35th session, where the chairman of the Administrative Committee answered Mr Dejan Mirovic's specific question that a session of the Administrative Committee will be held today. I report on the basis of the provisions of Articles 77 and 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You have partially eliminated the problem caused by Mrs Nada Kolundji as head of the ZES parliamentary group, because in the second position he writes who is in charge of informing or holding a session of the Administrative Committee. You've removed it, and I have no dilemma on that matter. I must tell you this also for Serbia's public: the SRS is not in any conflict with Tomislav Nikolic, and I assume that people with that name and last name in Serbia have more. They're honest. The SRS has no problem with any of their members. It is a modern party, which has its own acts and is acting on this basis, with very developed democratic principles within the framework of decision-making. The Serbian Radical Party, on behalf of Serbian citizens, has its own regime, Boris Tadic, and that is why we exist and what is our political goal. In political terms, we have great goals, and these are to provide Serbian citizens with a better life, better conditions. It's just that Hope Kolundji said she was attacking me. No one's attacking her. She's a TV for me. Through it, I can inform myself of what DS President Boris Tadic is referring to Serbian citizens, and nothing else. You have seen that there are others who appear when topics are much dirtier and that appear in the media and elsewhere. Dear citizens of Serbia, these are the ways of the Democratic Party to present that those representing you are making some kind of obstruction. Last night, we had a chance to hear from the Public Service the head of the party's parliamentary group participating in power. He says, by 31 December 2008, we should have passed a law on the National Assembly. The Serbian Radical Party did not boycott, did not participate, in wanting you to make such a proposal as soon as possible and propose it to the National Assembly. He says that by 31, a law on the National Assembly was to be passed, and we have not received it today. In an explanation of why the amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are made, you say, because of the speedy adoption of laws that will contribute to European integration. It would make sense that today on the agenda, and on behalf of the assembly majority, we have a proposal to change the government of Serbia's collapse, not to change the Rules of Procedure, which is otherwise restrictive. I'm sorry, Madam Chairman, for the little overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13801	There's no injury, sir. 77th and 104th, nor did you give an explanation in your presentation, which consists of an injury to the procedure. I warn you that when we receive the word on the basis of Article 100, we should devote at least 15 seconds to the explanation of which the infringement of the procedure consists, otherwise such a way of abuse of the right to the received word will be considered a violation of the other members of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dusan Maric wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13802	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting under Article 104, which is why I believe that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, and that the dignity of the President of the Republic and the personal dignity of Mr Boris Tadic has been violated. What's this about? Tomislav Nikolic said from this pay phone that someone spoke to Boris Tadic. He called him a donkey. I think it is an undisputed fact, if the donkey spoke to Boris Tadic, then Boris Tadic also spoke to the donkey. The undisputed fact is, only donkeys can talk to donkeys. On that basis (I apologize, this is a very serious thing), if the donkey talked to Boris Tadic, if only donkeys could talk to donkeys, then, according to the science called logic, someone who talked to the donkey is also an ass. The claim here is that the president of Serbia is a donkey. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I protest that the presidency and leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not give the team a warning and warning measure to Tomislav Nikolic. I will remind you of another case, when the chairman of the National Assembly, I think the session was chaired by Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, also missed the opportunity to give any warning measure, any measure of warning to Tomislav Nikolic over the harsh violation of the dignity of the National Assembly and the MPs. It happened on January 21st this year in 15.45 minutes when Tomislav Nikolic compared the SRS MPs to the maniacs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13803	There is no violation of Article 104 because the statement that a member is injured based on your attitude is what you would do (and how you interpret) if you were the chairman, which was not the case. So there's no breach of Article 104. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, come in, Mrs. Comic, in accordance with Article 226. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and I will ask for information, i.e. a notice from the competent national authorities. I will try to compare my question and everything I want to say in my three minutes with what Mrs Djukic-Dejanović said yesterday, which is that we are about to bring our insistence on Article 226 in connection with the agenda point ahead of us, that is, the decision to amend the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. All that is happening in this hall yesterday and today, especially today when Mr. Martinovic spoke for this speaker, points to the fact that, regardless of the change, change or adoption of a new Rules of Procedure, political arrogance and impudence, you cannot absorb from the Assembly, that political arrogance and impudence depend exclusively on us who are the creators of parliamentary life in Serbia. This points to the fact that, as I said yesterday, by adopting a new Rules of Procedure, or by amending this Rules of Procedure, you will only open up another Pandora's box and you will not change anything in an affirmative and better sense, or you will continue to act in accordance with your manners and according to your political preferences and determinations. As regards my question, or insistence on one piece of information, this question will in principle show how meaningful and justified the provisions of Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. In fact, on December 20th, 22nd, I asked the question, or I asked the finance minister, Ms. Diana Dragutinovic. As responsible, she informed me as an MP, a representative of the legislative authority, and sent me that information. My question concerned the crime that is taking place at the Apothecary Institute in Vranje, which, among other things, Mrs Comic and your party insisted locally. In that notice, I was informed that nine and a half million dinars were found to be missing in the Apothecary facility and that the investigation was still ongoing. Since, in this notice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Police Directorate, the Criminal Police Administration, has asked for further inspections and controls to be carried out, I am asking you for information and information, given that it was a month ago, to inform me as a MP, because it is primarily interested in citizens of the southern Serbia and the Pcinj County, from which I come, what is going on and what measures the competent state authorities will take in connection with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13805	The word has been made by Ambassador Milorad Buh. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for article 27. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I must warn here that the President of the Assembly, as well as the public of Serbia, is in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia concerns the provision of Article 100. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia which obliges the Assembly to pass a law on the National Assembly. All deadlines for passing this law have passed. The constitutional obligation is also to agree on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, both with the Constitution and with the Law on the National Assembly, on the basis of the Law on National Assembly. We are getting information from public information funds that there are two working groups, which are formed by the President of the Assembly's decision, to pass laws on the National Assembly and to innovate provisions or to adopt a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. It is a constitutional and legal obligation for these working groups to submit information, not to the president who formed them, but to the National Assembly. Did we get the information? We didn't. So we are knowingly violating the provisions of the Constitution, not passing the Law on the National Assembly. I ask the question - why? Is it such a complex matter that in a few years we can't pass the Law on the National Assembly? Why do we violate the provisions of the Constitution and not amend this Rules of Procedure on Labour, in terms of the innovation of those provisions that must be changed because of the constitutional obligation, because we must bring them into line? Both the procedure-law and the status-law Rules of Procedure do not comply with the provisions of the Constitution and the many laws that have been passed in the meantime. The greatest responsibility is to the President of the Assembly. The President of the Assembly knowingly violates the Constitution. I don't know why. And the previous presidents of the Assembly, too. That's amazing. It's weird. Do we have a parallel right? Can we apply some provisions to some... Well, here, and the European Union – every country has its own law and every country adheres to that law and that is a material legal basis for the adoption of its rules of procedure. We have been defined for cosmetic changes, only six material legal provisions on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. What does that mean? Nothing, it's cosmetic changes, they don't mean anything, but they mean in the media, to show how the Assembly is blocked. We're not talking about our constitutional obligation, but we're transferring it to an opposition that, as if something is insinuating, is blocking the Assembly, and the real condition is that we're violating the provisions of the Constitution. The President of the Assembly must come out here and give information on which no provision has been agreed, why the law has not been passed, why we are going in part to resolve the Rules of Procedure, in several stages, as said by the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13807	There is no violation of Article 27, at least not in the context of the arguments you have given, because the Constitution does not prescribe deadlines, but the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution. As much as I agree with you that we need a law on the National Assembly, it is an act prescribed by the Constitution, but without deadlines in the Constitution. If I remember correctly, Article 100, the secretary will correct me, determine only the assembly composition, do not set deadlines in which the National Assembly will pass the Law on the National Assembly. Articles 15 and 16 Constitutional law, you didn't state it in an explanation. I don't know that by heart, but Article 100, 102, and I know the members of the Constitution. So your argument is not in favour of the claim that a member of 27 has been violated. Working groups for the drafting of laws on the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure, which will be passed after the text of the law has been brought into line, have neither broken their work nor terminated until the job is completed. They will not submit the information, they will, on the basis of our mutual agreement, my personal hope is that it will be 250 MPs, submit a bill on the National Assembly and a proposal for a Rules of Procedure. National MP Momir Markovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13808	Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, almost all day we have advertised the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 147 of the current Rules of Procedure, during a debate on the law amending the Rules of Procedure. In order to remind the citizens of Serbia and you, gentlemen of the MPs, I will read again Article 147: "The legislator, the committees responsible, and the Government are obliged to consider before the National Assembly meetings the amendments submitted on the draft of the law and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed by the National Assembly and for which they are rejected. "Therefore, they are required to consider amendments before the start of the work of the National Assembly on the agenda and to say which they will accept and which they will not. Yesterday, before the end of the working day, the Management Board said which amendments it proposes to the Assembly to accept and which it would refuse. The Legislative Committee, which is also the committee of this National Assembly and which is obliged to give its opinion on certain amendments, has not yet taken place, so we do not have its views. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the National Assembly, Serbia is slowly but certainly being introduced by democracy, the dictatorship of those who, on behalf of their party, prefix "democratic". This is how we're going to get into the situation we've been in since 2000. We're going to get into a situation so fast that whoever is the idea creator of these changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure, I mean, specifically, Bosko Ristić... I remind you, especially those who have been following the work of this Parliament for a little while longer, of his manner to schedule a vampire session of the Administrative Committee in one hour to take up the immunity of the MP, Professor Vojislav Seselj. I remind you that this bad weather is slowly but surely coming in. The MPs will not have the right to say anything from this pay phone, so to speak. Two minutes to explain the amendment, look, read, study this draft law on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, it will be clear to you. It's just amazing that someone is safely introducing a dictatorship into the state of Serbia. Told some Gross Andreas that the Rules of Procedure is not working properly, and you better rather prepare to be even more restrictive towards the MPs... The MPs are representatives of the people and you, Madam Chairman, are just one of all of us 250.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13809	With the last sentence of your presentation, I fully agree and I'm proud to be one of us 250. Corrections are the decision, not the law, with a unique review of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly not yet begun. Article 147 has not been injured. The unique search involves the course of work in which we are now and during the session is not compromised by the violation of Article 147. National MP Marko Milenkovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13810	On the basis of the members of Rules of Procedures 225 and 226, I request a notice from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia on the privatisation of the Hisar factory in Prokuplje, on the amount of cash for which it was privatised and on the volume of production, use of production capacities and the number of employed workers, parallel to 1998 and for today, 2009. The company Hisar was one of the most important businesses in the municipality of Prokupić, Milan Toplice, Mlin Transport. The Hissar was awarded a huge production capacity. These facilities are today, after privatisation by a certain Miroljub Aleksic from Saturday's Pionir, used far below his optimum, which would not be so terrible that as a result there is no continued layoff of workers from work. Over 900 workers were employed in the company, and today barely around 250. The new owner promised to invest in modernising the production process, and only the old machines of the Saturday "Pionir" were brought in, while workers were welcomed by the restructuring and social programme, with the keen participation of democratic officials. The results of the privatisation are more than devastating and characterized by the huge dissatisfaction of workers with the destruction of the company that fed 1000 buying families and, above all, provided Serbia with its quality products. It's interesting that the sale contract wasn't available to anyone and no one's seen it until today, as if it were a state secret. Now periodically every third or fourth month of the winning list, the list of workers who are left without a job and who leave with a legal severance which is very small. In addition, all Hissara facilities in Serbia are closed, and there were over 50. A large number of employees were registered at Alexic's company "Pionir" Paracin, while the factory in Prokuplje was run as a drive, and the headquarters was transferred to Belgrade, Požeška 65b. In the end, what is alarming is that a certain Miroljub Aleksic is still planning to fire workers from work, with a plan to keep only 150 people in employment. This is a real example of the government's lack of concern for its citizens, especially in Toplico County and in southern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13811	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and I am advertising the article. 225 and 226. First of all, I would like to ask a question, in order to explain to the chairman, on what grounds did she give the notice to Mr Martinovic? I want her warning to be punished by the MPs of the Parliament in the day of the vote. This is what I want to remind the chairman of past times; as a man of years and a longtime MP from the early 1990s, I want to remind the chairman of this left hand side, the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, especially the '93-94. A year, when the SRS, headed by Professor Vojislav Seselj, fought for the basic principles of democracy, that the MP could come out here and say what he thought. We're closed for it then. Only then was Prof. Vojislav Seselj in prison on two occasions, in the CZ in Belgrade and in Gnjilan prison, while the others were flirting, and you were "yellow", with the regime. From this time to this day, we have reached a level that the MP can say here what he thinks, that every citizen can freely express his opinion. Unfortunately, today we are experiencing your passion and the force you want to apply, the repression, according to opposition MPs, especially SRS MPs, by proposing such repressive measures with this Rules of Procedure, cosmetic measures. You should be ashamed of that. The citizens of Serbia who were heartily supporting changes from the early 1990s to today should imagine who they would trust in the next elections and what this parliament should look like. The second question I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior to Mr Dacic is: on whose order was Rodoljub Stefanovic arrested from Novi Pazar, MZ Grubetic, and deported urgently in the afternoon at the Special Court of War Crimes in Belgrade? It's about a man who spent more time abroad in those war years than in the former Yugoslavia. The man is only because he looks corporal and the orthodox radical was brought in to testify, of course, that he said somewhere he was sitting with Goran Hadzic. It's a shame. It means that our country is still being held by a variety of secret agents, our police and the military are not asking questions. Now every citizen can be arrested in a house, in a family circle; we don't know what's waiting for us when we get out of this parliament, if that doesn't happen to us in parliament. It's humiliating for the Serbian people, it's humiliating for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13813	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Comic, I am reporting on the basis of Article 27 in relation to Articles 77, 104 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I address you as the current chair of this session. Namely, Mrs. Comic, whenever Dragan Todorovic commends you for having a good session of this Parliament, you then do not know, for what reasons, the need to use the rules of the Rules of Procedure instead of using them. When you turn to any MP, when you start with "I warn you" or "I give you a warning," believe me, I'm being followed by blood in the veins because of the tone you say. First of all, I don't know why you give the warning. There's no such thing in the Rules of Procedure. We know that these days, not just these days, especially today, are in big trouble. You are forced against the wall, you have to hold a session of the Administrative Committee, you have to declare whether you support the will of citizens, whether you are for democratic principles or for the application of forces in parliamentary life in Serbia, and today you will clearly and loudly point out at the session of the Administrative Committee. Of course, you also have a problem because you didn't know what time the Administrative Board was scheduled for, that you didn't know if it was at all, why it was scheduled yesterday, and then cancelled, because you don't know at what time in the day to listen, whether Bojan Pajtic's wing, whether Dusan Petrovic, whether Miki Rakic, whether Boris Tadic, whether Gilas. You're really in a lot of trouble. We ask you to solve your problems where your party is and to behave here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You, Mrs. Kolundjia, have no business right, no ability to inform you of that and that you are holding a session of the Administrative Board. This can be done by the President of Parliament, one-third of the Members of Parliament can do so, and that can, predominantly, be done by the chairman of the Administrative Committee. You're not any of those three. Because you abused Mrs. Comic's Rules of Procedure, too. He says he's using his discretionary right. Mrs. Komic, you're using him, and that's why, as I am now breaking the Rules of Procedure because it's been three minutes, but I'm ending up, trying to provoke a colleague of Martinovic, because before his arguments, all of your lawyers, from whatever DS wings they come from, have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13815	There's no injury, sir. 27, 77, 104 and 106, particularly not with regard to the pronunciation of the measures or the application of the Rules of Procedure, and after SRS MP Dragan Todorovic expressed his appreciation for my work. As far as I can keep track, he keeps expressing himself commendably about my work, absolutely. If we make an insight into the stenogram, you will see that everything is done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Article 27 and the care of order implies that I should warn the MPs that a violation which may be the basis for a warning is created. I said several times that I had to give a warning, that it was a measure that was unpopular in every parliament, any measure, and that any chairman was reluctant to give that warning, but if you leave me without any other choice then for the sake of taking care of the order and our joint work, and on the basis of Article 27, I must warn that the application of Article 106 will have to be realised. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13816	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting for an article. 101, 103 and 104. I'm reporting because the Rules of Procedure have been violated by my being accused of violating the Rules of Procedure. I want to say that I asked for a word based on the insistence of the SRS MPs to answer the question they were asking here. I sought that answer from those who were competent to give me an answer, and therefore I asked for a word and I gave from this speaker the answer that was personally asked of me. And I think it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure when you're accusing someone of breaking the Rules of Procedure. Unlike those of you who regularly violate him and abuse him, I have not violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13817	There were no violations of the Rules of Procedure. I am trying to listen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to each of the Members of Parliament asking for the right to speak by article 100, and I think that communication, regardless of all difficulties, is still successfully done. I now want to inform the National Assembly that a group of Belgrade University students, who wants to meet in a direct way the work of the National Assembly and the authorities, and I want to welcome the students: Milan Vulovic, Milos Markovic, Teodoro Jovanovic, Sanju Soldo, Predrag Marković, Dejan Obradović, Jelen Virić, Vladimir Lazar, Milan Mladenov, Dark Angelov, Nikola Bozovic, Isak Kadrolija, Protic Suzan, Aleksandra Korać, Nikola Prelevic, Aleksandra Ivanovic, Milan Bizjak, Sanja Jaksic, Bojan Prelevic, Ivan Ivanovic, Nevena Pešović, Repac Ljubis, Slavko Bižić, Daniela Antić and Milos Stošić, are visiting. Welcome to the National Assembly. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13818	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, to join your greetings, to welcome the students of the Law School, to wish them a chance to finish their studies in time, for them, for their parents and for our country. We hope that they will remain in this country, that this country will have the opportunity to give them the chance to form their families here, to work, to raise their children and to be happy and satisfied. By the way, I'm reporting for an article. 101, 103 and 104, and I would like to warn Mrs. Nada Kolundji that MPs can have a wide range of demands and you may be called in a way to give answers and if you are already going to give answers, Mrs. Kolundjia, it would be common for you to have solid evidence that what you're saying at the pay phone is true. Now, let me tell you right now, I'm not going to call you in any way that what you said is not true, but that knowledge of you doesn't mean anything. You know what the committees are called, what it means when the committee is convened, which is the procedure, etc. It's something we shouldn't be convinced of. What we are, in every way possible, trying to get to the knowledge and MPs, and above all to the citizens of Serbia, is that you are trying to manipulate both citizens and MPs. One kind of manipulation is the appointment of a session of the Administrative Board, so the session is interrupted, so today probably the sequel, but that extension doesn't mean anything either. The question is to what point Mr. Nenad Constantinovic will have time to hold a session of the Administrative Committee. I understand, Mr. Constantinović is a successful lawyer, objects are what they are, very successful, only if he takes your case will he be absolutely unsuccessful, because no one can defend you alive. On that point, don't even hope there's some lawyer who can do it. Therefore, Mrs Kolundzija, the demands of the SRS MPs are very simple – that this assembly works in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this assembly. The assembly was to come, that MPs who were members of the Administrative Board were invited to continue the session and would not spend one single second of it at all. However, you are now convincing us that this word of yours is enough for us to break it all up and you think you're going to fool us again, as you've done so far. If I ask him the same question again, does he know where the bunny drinks water, what do you think the answer I'm going to get? He doesn't know. He hasn't learned yet. When you learn that, answer it. Thank you and forgive me for overstepping.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13819	There's no injury, sir. 101, 103, 106, nor did you explain the procedure in your presentation. Please, in mutual communication, we respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that we call upon. The word is made by the People's MP Ivan Andric. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13820	The Honorable Chairman, I address only you. I appeal to Article 98, paragraphs 3 or 2, I am sorry, I have no Rules of Procedure, and this is your right to set a break and hold consultations, to call for consultations of the heads of Parliament. It is quite clear that we entered the 26th hour of work of the Assembly, and the debate has not yet begun. It is quite clear that the problem exists and representatives of the SRS do not hide the problem. It's about three mandates that they think, founded, unfounded, I don't want to get into at all... It is that yesterday was the meeting of the Administrative Committee, that the session did not give the expected result or response. She's just not finished. It's scheduled for today. We've been sitting here all day listening to the burning between you and the MPs of the SRS. Please exercise your right and set a break in the work of the Assembly until the end of the session of the Administrative Board, as the problem is there. The problem isn't here in the Assembly. There is no need for us to sit down and further destroy the Parliament's worst reputation since Serbia exists as a multi-party democracy. I think it's a complete illusion that it suits anyone. It's about SRS MPs wanting to accomplish something they think they're entitled to. They can't do that here. They can only perform at the board's session. Obviously, if you questioned their patience and tenacity, they wouldn't stop. This will continue until the end of the session of the Administrative Committee. I ask you to stop this, so we don't throw up any further in front of these students you've welcomed, in front of the viewers, in front of the people who voted for us. We sit here and listen, this has become a matter of inspiration and creativity by which member of the Rules of Procedure will report. Everyone else sits, looks, doesn't participate, who better to answer, does Hope Kolundji... The problem is at the board meeting. Give any answer to that problem, and let's move on. We're sitting, we're all listening. There's all the MPs. Sometimes there's only five or six, and sometimes 70, but that doesn't make any sense anymore. Please, Madam Chairman, to exercise your right to Article 98, paragraphs 2 or 3, and to declare a break, order that session of the Administrative Board be held as soon as possible. I'm not sure there's gonna be a vote there. It can be held without a president, and finally the Assembly is doing its job. That is the problem, not what the rules of the Rules of Procedure are now and what the ruling majority wants to introduce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13821	I thank you for your suggestions, MP. Taking care of the order and application of Article 27, I estimate that there is no need for additional meetings and consultations, and a session of the Administrative Committee will continue today at 3 p.m. in the Press Room. What is happening in the hall is due to the election of the political strategy and the assembly strategy of the MPs and respect for the agreement on the application of the Rules of Procedures under which the strategy is made possible. The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13822	Dear Chairman, I call on Article 103 and call on all Members of the People to move on to the agenda. There is no provision of a Rules of Procedure that can be called upon and asked blackmailingly for something to end the way he thinks it is, while blocking the work of this congregation. I'm really asking that we deal with what's on the agenda. It is an important and inspiring topic, which we can essentially discuss. She is exactly the result of what is happening in this congregation. Therefore, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure are an necessity imposed by the fact that the existing Rules of Procedure have been misused in the most harsh way, that it has been used to establish someone's political demands, very often beyond what this Rules of Procedure allows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13823	Article 103 is currently not broken because the debate has not yet started, but I agree that one of the interpretations of the application of the Rules of Procedure is an invitation to be applied. Obligation of the chairperson in strict application. In 103, it would be the basis for a criminal offence if an article were to be broken. 103, that's all I'm explaining. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13824	The base is Article 101, and the reason is 104, so you will then assess, as always, whether there was such a basis. I have to agree with what one of my predecessors, Mr. Andric, said here. What we've been insisting on all day yesterday happened in the end. A representative of the motion for this proposal for a decision on amendments to the Rules of Procedure did what was asked of it, she said which amendments were acceptable for the motionors, which were not, we looked at the position of the Administrative Committee. As far as the DSS is concerned, it exhausted all the reasons for some of our remarks in a formal sense when it comes to the course of this session. As far as we're concerned, we could move on to a debate, a unique search of this motion, because in this unique search, we would have something to tell you about the proposal itself, about what is achieved or what is not achieved, better said. All evil and upside down is being achieved, contributing to the construction of a bad atmosphere in the National Assembly. When it comes to the efficiency of work, which was probably the desire of the applicant, it is obviously not going to be done, regardless of who wrote this, it seems like it will contribute. I think that someone further stalling, as far as we're concerned, when it comes to the use of the existing Rules of Procedure, to prevent a debate about what you're proposing, doesn't make any sense. But if this is still happening and if there is a parliamentary group that continues to do so, it is not just a matter of political strategy or political tactics at a given time. It's impossible to look at that thing so dry. It is obvious that for months there has been a problem here regarding the mandate and the need to build a positive and good atmosphere by solving this problem. We have already discussed this several times in some meetings of the heads of parliament and our suggestion was that the ruling coalition, primarily the biggest party of the ruling coalition, has done some activities, has made efforts to address this situation in a satisfactory manner. It wasn't up to us to give those formulas because we didn't cause this, but we're suffering damage. The entire congregation suffers from damage. My political party, which I represent here in this House, suffers great political damage because of it, and the way it is solved is contrary to all the principles and democratic rules of the game. You changed the chairman of the Administrative Board, you changed the chairman of the Finance Committee by not being informed of it, except perhaps one parliamentary group of the opposition. I'm not talking about the MP group being wrong about what they're looking for, I even deeply believe they're right, but there must be something called responsibility, taken over by the ruling coalition to solve the problem. Everything we've come to today... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, just one more, two sentences, which we came up with today, that's why. When an amendment to the Rules of Procedure is proposed in this way, which we will talk about later, it is proposed so drastically and in such an ugly way as to solve a separate problem. But it hits the back of those who chose other political parties, DSS, NS, LDP and others, and even members of the SRS and those who chose the SRS... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... And in the end, you too, whom the people chose to be in the ruling coalition. That really doesn't make sense. This proposal was really correct, to give a break and to see how this problem would end. Because what does this mean that by reporting to the Rules of Procedure, we are obstructing the work on the agenda? It's not our idea. solve the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13825	There is no violation of Article 104, nor did you explain in your presentation what it consisted of, except that we were in violation of the Rules of Procedure together, because you spoke for four minutes and thirty seconds. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13826	Advertising breach of Articles 101, 103 and 104. I assume, Mrs. Kolundzija, that you and my predecessor's speech, Mr. Milos Aligrudic, will be interpreted as blackmail. Obviously, Mrs. Kolundzija, anything that doesn't suit her politically is qualified as blackmail, as pressure, as an illegal request, or I don't know how you qualify. Mrs. Kolundjia, please, what kind of blackmail is that if we are asking to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? What kind of blackmail is that if my intention is to obstruct the work of the Administrative Committee, to obstruct the work of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia... You're transferring us that's blackmail. It's not true, and it's a hoax, Mrs. Kolundjia. Take a look at the request of the Administrative Board, see – to resolve parking, some costs, austerity measures etc. It's not a dispute, it's all important, and it's all necessary. But these are simple things, Mrs. Kolundjia, just remember how much the Democratic Party has changed by now. Was it blackmail on your part or did you use your business right to turn in your resignations to the Rules of Procedure, to get it into the procedure, to schedule a session of the Administrative Board, and to get this thing over with? She wasn't blackmailed. We're not looking for anything else either. What's the reason it wasn't finished yesterday? What's the reason it doesn't start till 3:00 today? A simple reason – your political interest, what leads you all the time, your assessment that it will cause damage to the SRS, that's all. Let's be honest with the citizens of Serbia to the end, to the MPs -- because the DS thinks it will be harmful for the SRS to violate both the Constitution and the laws, and the Rules, and the Rules of Procedure, everything. That's the basic problem. You call it blackmail. There is no here, Mrs. Kolundjia, blackmail. If what the SRS stands for is like blackmail to you, is it blackmail if the representatives of other political parties say so? You can see their demands are almost identical. There is nothing disputed, and in the ruling majority there are leaders of parliamentary clubs who said the SRS request is completely legitimate. Don't listen to Bollet, there were 304 MPs in his time, listen to me, and it will certainly be more useful to you. Therefore, Mrs Kolundzija, do not deceive the citizens of Serbia, we are not blackmailing the Assembly, we are asking for our rights and we will not give up until we return all mandates belonging to the Serbian Radical Party, 21 mandates.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13827	Thank you. The word is by MP Ivan Andric, deputy head of the parliamentary group, and Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13828	I'm sorry that Mrs. Comic came out, but it doesn't matter, and you have the right to do so as soon as you've moved to the presidency. I just don't think you really can ignore reality, no matter how hard you try. So please don't do that, now really please. Two representatives of opposition parliamentary groups asked for this agony to be stopped, to be interrupted, to hold consultations and a session of the Administrative Committee as soon as possible. It's not obstruction. The debate hasn't even started. We've been sitting here for 26 hours, the debate hasn't even started. The answer is that you say there are no reasons to hold consultations and a session of the Administrative Committee. Sir, she may have been scheduled for 15 hours, but that's how she was scheduled yesterday, and obviously that's not enough. At least sit back and make sure it's enough. We're not getting into it. We will attend whenever it is, we have a view of it and we will say our position there. Don't harass the assembly. It's a thing that goes beyond any personal feelings and any sense of measure. If this institution continues to lose its reputation, who will have it? Who will be able to represent the state in any way? Don't do that, please. If you have already moved here and taken responsibility for running the session, you have no right not to comply with the request of two opposition parliamentary groups, which is not unrealistic. He's a reflection of the real situation and what we're looking for makes sense. Please don't use that Noah tactics now, to say "no harm to the Rules of Procedure, thank you, goodbye" because it takes responsibility for the worst destruction of the reputation of the Serbian Parliament since it exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13829	There's no tactics here, at least as far as we're concerned. It is our only say to the MPs who have the right to seek the word, to receive the word, and I will abide by it. Ms. Gordana Pop-Lazic, as deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13830	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that many MPs are MPs, and here the head of the ZES parliamentary group, respected the opposition, so to the whole right, to obstruct the work of the Assembly, I would like the President of the Assembly to provide us with a list of these European laws waiting to be on the agenda of this assembly, to see how much the law has been prepared by the Government, and now it is not possible to discuss them because MPs are delaying the work by seeking only what the Constitution guarantees them. Here it is in action, perhaps, the problem of understanding democracy. So, the constitution requires that these mandates be discussed, that these mandates be returned, all 21 mandates. Because these mandates are the mandates of the SRS MPs, but these are, above all, the mandates of Serbian citizens who voted for the SRS. You're restoring strength to them in this House. We went to the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj elections, and we promised the citizens that we would do something on their behalf in this House. I wish you'd never adopted this Privatisation Act here. I wish we could have obstructed it for a year! Do you think every law here must be passed? The labour law, where luck we had so much power that it would never be adopted. The Serbian citizens are looking for this power in the SRS and will have it only if you respect their will and if there are as many SRS MPs here as the Serbian citizens wanted it. I believe, because of your conduct, your lack of respect for the Constitution, the lack of respect for basic democratic principles, the skills and how to commit to the next elections and to understand who or what political means came to power, how he exercised that authority, who and how he acted not only here in parliament, but in political life at all, who he stood for. The Serbian Radical Party is always only for the respect of the Constitution, the law, and the Rules of Procedure is something that regulates our way of working. It will not serve you honor, gentlemen, that since 2000 you have imposed only restrictive measures, thus suffocating the opposition's voice. Yesterday I watched Espania TV: in a parliament that is much bigger than this sitting perhaps twenty MPs, one MP exhibits his exposure for 45 minutes and that's perfectly normal. There's no asphyxiation of democracy. This, to go out for two minutes for a pay phone and say goodbye to you, can't be democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13831	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I appeal to the article. In 225 and 226, and I'm looking for certain notifications, which means I want to inform you and the public that certain problems have arisen regarding the functioning of agricultural cooperatives. I come from Srem, there are a lot of farming cooperatives in Srem, or ZZ cooperatives that function in a certain, whether legal, whether illegal, way. I want the Minister of Agriculture, i.e. the Association of Serbia and the Vojvodina Association to answer the question. In particular, the Poljokop Association in Vasca, it is a small place in the municipality of Šid, operates by the cooperative system and these cooperatives have acquired the right to be cooperatives by their participation of 100,000 dinars. They're 11. The value of this cooperative is about 1.5m euros. A group from the cooperative is currently negotiating with a specific lawyer representing the agrarian mafia and wants to buy actions, i.e. to buy the rights of those cooperatives at the cost of 5,000 euros. So, if six-seven of them join together and sell their cooperative rights, and that right would cost about 35,000-40,000 euros, those new ones, who join that cooperative, gain some right, or provide themselves the right to have the value I was talking about here, which is 1.5m euros. I request a notice of this problem that is taking place in the municipality of Šid, i.e. in the village of Vica, and request that the competent authorities take all measures in order not to continue such occurrences, whether in Vashica or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13833	The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of Rule 226. Two months ago, I also reported to this member and asked for a notice from the Privatisation Agency, and about the situation at the AD Serbian Glass Factory Paracin, which was sold to a Bulgarian buyer two years ago. As usual, the Privatisation Agency has never provided an answer, nor has it been explained to other colleagues when they asked the question and asked for an explanation from the Privatisation Agency. The reason for my announcement is the fact that 700 workers of the Serbian glass factory in Paracino are currently in suspense whether they will return to their jobs after 16 February, and since 15 November 2008 they have been sent to the paid leave. This uncertainty is further supported by agreements signed by workers, under which they broke up the working relationship in the Serbian glass factory Paracin and the solutions that these same workers both signed and became workers of some small plants within the glasswork. Workers rightly question whether they are losing rights that they have on the basis of a purchase contract between the buyer and the Privatisation Agency, which lists them as workers of the Serbian glass factory in Paracina. I also provided copies of the agreements and solutions mentioned at the time of the Agency. The severance that has been promised, some 160 euros per year of work, will likely be denied in this way for workers of the Serbian glass factory. These are some questions asked by the workers themselves, and it is my duty to request an explanation from the Privatisation Agency on behalf of these workers. Also, I would like to take advantage of this moment, until it begins to work, as I would say, the amended Dracon Rules of Procedure, to remind fellow MPs, primarily from the ruling coalition, on the words of the greats of Serbian parliamentarian, famous statesman and leader of Radical Party Nikola Pasic, sent to his party councilman, who presented him with a draft new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which was scheduled to enter the assembly procedure. Nikola Pasic asked him, "Is that even good for the opposition? "No, Mr. Prime Minister," his interviewer replied. "Well, then rip it up, we'll be the opposition someday. "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs of the ruling coalition, you don't think that way, but there will probably come a time when you will regret what you are doing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13835	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Vladan Jeremic. Otherwise, the issue of the Serbian glass factory in Paracino has just been resolved, to the satisfaction of workers, local self-government and state.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13836	My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, have long since concluded that one skillful manipulation of the current regime has been transferred by our country from some real to a fully virtual framework. Citizens are not even aware of how well they live, new jobs are being opened daily, the dinar is stronger than the euro, Eulex is the protector of Serbian living in Kosovo and Metohija, the global economic crisis will mostly bypass us... (President: I apologize, please, which member? All right. According to Article 226, this was just an introduction. What will catch us from the global economic crisis will further raise the standard of living, pensions are 70% of the average wage, the Constitution is sacred, and the EU is expecting us with open arms. The only problem or black spot, as described by the highest bidders with the EU entry term, is the Assembly and, of course, the most credit of the SRS MPs, and one solution could be the abolition of TV transmissions, as well as the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Since it is obvious that the regime is convinced that the majority of citizens are in deep winter sleep, I would only like to make an account of the awake public, in accordance with Article 226 of this still valid Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of whether it is true: since euro integration and so on are. European laws are the main asset of the ruling majority, and, above all, the DS, how the public to interpret the fact that, according to the president of the Parliamentary Committee on European Integration, 12 so-called Parliament is waiting for adoption in the Assembly. European laws? One law is still on the Committee, three laws are pending adoption in the government, 14 laws have not yet come under review in the government, and 12 so-called. European laws have not even begun to be seriously written. So, compared to these 12, plus one law, 29 European laws are unequivocally responsible by the government for the delay. Then who's the black hole and where's the plug? I think the answer to this question from day to day is becoming clearer. I say, in accordance with Article 226, I request an official explanation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia whether what I have stated is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13837	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to the Rules of Procedure, because I believe that the dignity of this assembly, Article 104, has been violated. A minor amendment to the six members of the current Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure has been signed by 129 MPs from the ruling coalition. This, citizens of Serbia, is a disgrace, shame and the impotence of the Democratic Party. The ruling coalition is trying in every way possible to prevent the opposition from discussing in this respected home life and existential problems and laws that are important to all citizens of Serbia, as well as to the state of Serbia. The aim of this proposal is, on the one hand, to silence the opposition, to ban all principles of elemental democracy to which the ruling coalition has been so important during its rule since 2000. In fact, what is the background of this proposal that is so bad that it kills the electoral will of citizens and prohibits representatives of the people, legitimately elected in the May 15th 2008 elections, to advocate the citizens who elected them? You in this respected home have trampled the Parliament's dignity and all the fluids of democracy, because you are trying to deceive the citizens of Serbia that because of the opposition's obstruction, European laws cannot be passed. Where are your laws when they are not in the assembly procedure of any European law? You're saying because of the opposition, you can't go to Europe. Europe does not want you because of Djelic, Dinkic, similar to them, Boris Tadic, no matter how much you are serving and obedient. You are trying to end democracy in an unconstitutional and illegal way not only in this assembly but throughout Serbia. Dear citizens, the Democratic Party is trying to deceive you and distract you from the even greater problems that are happening in Serbia, and these problems are accumulated daily. (President: Time.) They're bigger. The Democratic Party is trying to draw attention to the problems of Kosovo and Metohija, the status of Vojvodina, poverty, poverty, poverty, delinquency, drug abuse, crime, and most of all trying to justify themselves to the citizens and explain to them why so far... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... has not fulfilled any pre-election promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13839	The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13840	Gentlemen, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, 225 and 226. I've already asked the president of the assembly and the authorities once. I asked why the draft law on associations was withdrawn from the assembly procedure. At that time, I also pointed out that the primary interest of the Serbian state is to create a legal basis for the establishment and operation of foreign NGOs by passing a special law that would channel their anti-state work. I also pointed out that the destructive objective of certain foreign NGOs is hidden behind false formulations of the basic purpose of their work, so it is often stated that their activity is aimed at providing direct caritative and humanitarian assistance, etc. Foreign NGOs are the transmission between the ideological centre abroad and the government in Belgrade, and they are, in fact, covered by NGOs that have a significant impact on the creation of government, i.e. state policy. It can be concluded that foreign NGOs in Serbia are very numerous. They act aggressively in Serbia, train both countries and peoples, prescribe canons of behaviour and states and peoples as European neo-colonialists. The NGO of the Fund for the Humanitarian Law of the Infamous Natasa Kandic, you can think, quote, "helps the societies and states created in the territories of the former Yugoslavia to establish the rule of law and accept the legacy of mass violations of human rights at the time of armed conflicts, in order to prevent repetition, establish criminal responsibility for the perpetrators and satisfy justice. "Completed quote. In addition to all the above, the Fund, better said Natasa Kandic, criticises the government for reluctant to face the past, so it gives so-called. support for domestic war crimes trials, then represent the idea and need to create procedures for applying the process of verification. Furthermore, the Fund supports national war crimes trials and gives encouragement to press charges. The anti-Serbian Helsinki Committee for Human Rights, under Sonja Biserko's presidency, is also so-called. NGO with the aim of defining the Satanisation of Serbs. The Open Society Fund was founded by Sonja Licht and became its executive director. The fund is presented as a non-governmental, non-political and non-profit organisation that develops and supports system-based developmental political programmes and activities aimed at developing democratic culture and democratic openness. This fund, however, advocates respect for human rights for all but Serbs. Sonja Licht Fund is part of the international network of the Open Society Institute, whose founder is of Hungarian origin, George Soros, who was founded in 1993 with the task of promoting democratic power, human rights, legal, social and economic reforms. The Fund affects the creation and adoption of the bill. This is very important for the MPs. The tireless Sonja Licht recently founded the Political Extraordinary Fund... (President: Time.) I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13841	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13842	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 226, I ask Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic, Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic and President Boris Tadic to which foreign ambassadors are involved in political life in Serbia, particularly US Ambassador Cameron Manter and British Steven Wardsworth? I have repeatedly sought this notice for this speaker, listing numerous obvious examples that point to the political influence of these two ambassadors, and so far I have not received any answers. An even more concrete announcement I request from those authorities is whether the Serbian government will respond in the first place to scandalous statements by US Ambassador Cameron Manter, who not only represents a rude interference in the internal affairs of the sovereign state, but rather an open campaign to undermine Serbia's territorial integrity. There's more than enough reason for Manter to declare himself a persona non grata. In a few of his interviews these days, Manter has openly shown that he does not recognise our country. In one of the interviews, Manter said: "Kosovo is and will be an independent state, the status, as far as we are concerned, is resolved. "The end of the quote. He also stressed that Belgrade must co-operate fully with Pristina and EULEX. So Manter demonstrates the policy of force and openly shows that the US is ignoring the process in the United Nations, that is, in front of the International Court of Justice and that they are not at all interested in what will be the answer that this court will give to Kosovo's unlawfully declared independence. Rough interference in the internal affairs of the sovereign state is also his commentary on parliament's work. Does President Tadic in his correspondence with US President Obama at all indicate that there is a problem when it comes to his administration's policy towards our country, or does he just send him congratulations? However, we can see that this kind of US policy and Ambassador Manter in Belgrade are also being supported by some new parties on Serbia's political scene, including Nikolic's so-called. advanced parties. Even Ambassador Manter does not hide his enthusiasm for Tomislav Nikolic. In his latest interview, Manter points out that Nikolic understands him, understands what he is talking about and that Nikolic is grateful for being open and honest with him. It is quite clear why Manter is pleased whenever he comes across understanding from politicians, because this policy of force, kidnapping and destruction of territorial integrity cannot be understood by anyone who protects national interests. I was already talking about how Manter advocated Tadic for his new favorite politician. (President: Time.) I'm done. In fact, Manter asked Tadic to provide all rights by violating the constitution and law and ending the election will of citizens at the SRS' kidnapped mandates, as if his party had participated in the elections. Whether Tadic is ready to carry out all Manter's tasks will also be seen according to the ruling of the Administrative Committee when it comes to the three mandates of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13843	The word has an MP, Zoran Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Articles 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure, because I need certain notifications from the competent ministry to be able to perform the function of the MP and to protect the interests of the citizens of six municipalities of the Kolubara region: Valjeva, Osecina, Ub, Lajkovac, Mionica and Ljiga. Before asking for the necessary information from the competent ministry, for the sake of the public and for the citizens of the Kolubara region, I will remind you that on the night between 29 and 30 September 1998, the Kolubar County hit a devastating earthquake with a magnitude of 5.6 units of Richter scale, and the epicenter was located in the area of the Myonic and Ljuč municipality on a mountain beam from Suvobor to Malen. Afterwards, according to Seismological Institute of Serbia, more than twenty earthquakes occurred in this area, and one of the earthquakes occurred on 30 April 1999, with a magnitude of 5.7 units of Richter. According to the Department for Reconstruction and Development of the Kolubar district, the earthquake damaged 24.185 houses in 64.430 households, and most of the facilities were injured in the Valjeva municipality, then in the Myonic, Ubus, Ljiška, Lajkovci and Osijek municipalities. How officially the facilities have been restored to date, it is not known, but half is said to have been restored. However, no one reports how much that half represents. There are estimates, based on the money that is set aside for this purpose, that the restoration will only be completed in 14 years, but if the current rate of renewal is considered then it will take at least 20 or 25 years to come. Article 5 The 2008 Act on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia ('The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia'), number 27/07, has been prescribed to direct 400m funds through the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Kolubar region's Recovery Directorate. By June 5th, 198,840,000 dinars were directed through this ministry, and from June 5, through the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning, 201,159,645 dinars were to be directed. In 2008, 351.3 million or 88% were transferred from the Republic of Serbia's budget since the planned adjunction for the Directorate. The funds are transferred in monthly quotas of one twelfth, however, no planned quota of funds has been transferred to the Directorate in November and December. According to the documentation, it was 67.3 million, which was partially reduced by 30. 12, 18.7 million. At the end of the year, the funds not transferred under the programme amount to 48,668,000 dinars. Based on this, I request a notice from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning, which is why this ministry has not transferred the funds to the Kolubara Region Reconstruction Directorate of 48,668,000 dinars. To translate into a common language, between 20 and 25 houses in the Kolubara region have been denied.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13845	The word is Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, as deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13846	Dear fellow Members of the People, Chairman, Presidency, the basis for my notification is Article 104. After the presentation of the president of the ZES parliamentary group, which has accused the SRS of blackmailing the parliamentary majority, I believe it is necessary for me to draw attention to both the parliamentary majority and the entire Serbian public that this chaos that is produced primarily by jeopardising democracy, the severe social crisis, inflation, the rise in unemployment cannot correspond to the state of Serbia, but only to the enemies of this country, and above all to the United Kingdom and their ambassadors who cheer and dress here on the political scene of Serbia. I warn you that you have made a pact with the devil, and whoever plantes pumpkins with the devil, their heads are peeled. Take care of who you negotiate with, who you negotiate with, whose name you work on, because based on the votes you have received from the citizens, you have an obligation to work in the interests of the Serbian state. Today on this board of directors, Mrs. Kolundzija, at 15.00 hours, you will prove how much you respect the Constitution and how much you respect democracy and the Law on People's MPs. The epilogue of that session will show whether or not you are up to being called a democratic party at all. So, from the decisions you make at that session, which the public will hopefully be familiar with – this is how I call on public information funds to attend this session and follow the work of the Administrative Committee to be realistic – will depend further on the behaviour of the SRS in relation to you. I'm not saying that you can't be political partners, we have to respect ourselves here because Serbian citizens have given us mandates to deal with many important issues together in Serbia, but you have to show that you are up to the political situation in the country, that you are not blind listeners to Manter and that you are not working in the interest of those who, while you are not here with your new "atlantist stars" agree what will happen next in Serbia and how the body of the Assembly will work. I'm warning you one more time, and I know what you're up to, make sure that this board is held, that all nine points be considered in any way, you'll show your true face at that session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13847	Thank you. Just as a reminder that the 34th session of the Administrative Board is being continued at 15.00 hours in the press room. The word has the head of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13848	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I felt the need to report to the NS parliamentary group and comment on our work and the efforts today and yesterday in the fight for democracy, to defend the dignity of the Serbian parliament. I would support MPs who have been here for days fighting a violent, democratic one, as they call it. There is also a democratic form of violence of the majority, the ruling coalition, where they are just trying to get us into the agenda and impose something that is not in line with any democratic principles in Serbia. I've fought for democracy my whole life, respecting the majority's decision, and hearing the minority, that there can be no violence in any way, that no one can force an MP to speak for two minutes about something important to this country, that no one can force the MP to shut up when it comes to its environment and its voters, when it comes to defending some amendment that matters, that someone can't get a group of amendments after some time that's been proposed to reject and throw them out of the game and I support these efforts to fight violence and seek a way to exercise the rights we've been up against for years. I would not agree to accept all this, and so I appeal to the opposition to be unique, not to allow this, this is a violation of democracy, this is three steps backwards. At this point, he's answering someone, and tomorrow he's going to be in trouble, very soon he's going to be in trouble. We've been fighting for democracy and for the principles we've been negotiating for years, we've adopted. Don't let any bullying, kidnapping, abuse. We're all fighting the way we know and know it, someone's representing their constituents, maybe he doesn't know how to say and say it, but he's fighting, he sees it's some kind of injustice. Therefore, we are fighting injustice and violence that is trying to impose in parliament. We're gonna have a hard time getting that back. Give me these European laws. As a People's MP, I will appeal to adopt them without any amendment. Let's see them. Where are they? You don't have any, gentlemen. What are you talking about? The statutes of the Duke offend you. You don't know where you're going or what you're going to do, how you're going to get out of this problem. Now you're transferring it to opposition, mixing grandmothers and frogs, mixing the Administrative Board. The Administrative Board should do its work in accordance with the law and the Constitution, but no obstruction is now being done. I'd be disappointed if someone was happy after the board of directors, so I hung up. In the fight for democracy should be persistent and persist until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13849	Thank you. We fully agree that we are all here, in a sense, and fighters for democracy, and in order to have some success, I ask all Members of Parliament to call upon a member of the Rules of Procedure who they consider to have been injured. The word is from Miss Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13850	Mr. Novakovic, for the best part, let me help you as vice president, since you obviously want this assembly stream to go normal and not give us any incoherent arguments that last for several hours. When looked at, by 31 October last year Gordana Komic spent 11.5 hours explaining why the member was injured or not. That's as far as we could get. Mr. Novakovic, 13 books of stenographic notes on the course of the session have been published since the constitution of the new assembly. About three books about, you get that as vice president, with reasons Gordana Komic. Since you're a much more rational man, I'll do it on the case of your party to explain it to you. In the previous session in party G17 plus there were two MPs who, because of the fact that your party decided so and your President Mladjan Dinkic, lost the status of MPs from the G17 Plus list. These are now former MPs, then our colleagues, Sofrenia Čonjagic and Vesna Ilic, to whom you from G17 have activated the resignations that they blanco gave to MPs. At that time, this Mitrovica Constitution was not yet adopted, where we specified in Article 102(2) that the MP was free to make his or her mandate available to the party whose list he was elected. Then you have the case of Mr. Goran Paunovic and Mrs. Ksenija Milivojevic, Miss pardon, who are also from your party and who have activated the blank resignations entrusted to the G17. If you remember, Mr. Novakovic, be honest now that you are in the position of the chairman, and from party G 17, where did you have four such cases, two plus two, when was the Committee session scheduled? You must remember the fact that the faster-better Sofrenia Čonjagić and Vesna Ilic ran... Like these three unfortunate persons whose resignations are due today, if there are any sessions, to discuss the Administrative Committee. At that point, both Čonjagic and Vesna Ilic ran to the office and wrote there that they were giving up on it and withdrawing their resignations. That was impossible and funny for the chairman of the Administrative Board at the time, and that chairman of the Administrative Board was no one but the current citizen Tomislav Nikolic. On that day, the Management Board immediately sat down, determined that all the conditions for the termination of the mandate were met, so I do not see, Mr. Novakovic, why are you telling SRS MPs who all the time... And members of the Administrative Board, and our president of the parliamentary group, and Mrs. Pop-Lazic, deputy, and all of us individually remind you of what your obligation is, but now you are ruled by Manter, Wardsworth and the others who give you orders... (President: Forty-five seconds. )......................................................................................................... And that's why we have a dictatorship in parliament. Forty-eight seconds, a minute or two is nothing compared to what's devastating -- that you've trampled on everything we've been up against for the past 18 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13851	Thank you. You didn't really help me, but I remember very well. Mr. Čonjagic's name is Sovranije, and Mrs. Vesna is Lalic. I wasn't a member of the Administrative Board back then, and I'm not now, fortunately. Let's get back to the agenda. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13852	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't know who I'd turn to on this left, because other than the Socialist coalition partners, there would probably be no MPs. I must say, unfortunately, Hope came out, that she had a revolutionary, historic speech in the congregation yesterday. I have to honestly say, I didn't understand anything. It's probably her story to show this democracy process that's been going on since 2000. I ask you who you are in these benches, from the Democratic Party, what was the process of seeking your democracy that lasted from the 1990s until October 6th? How and in what way did you seek your parliamentary rights? How and in what way are you trying to quench these democratic rights? (President: Mr. Zivanovic, which member do you advertise? ) Articles 27, 77, 104, 106, 225 and 226. Ladies and gentlemen, I expected, before the adoption of these European laws, that, after you passed the law on dealing with corruption, that reckoning would begin to work. You've seen, it's starting to work, probably thanks to certain people at the top of the government, to Mr. Dacic, but unfortunately, cleaning seems to have started from the tail, not from the top. You see, this military mob, about the division of these apartments -- who's involved? Now that includes the referents, the ones who received the papers, they are involved in this crime process, not the one who made it possible for them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of questions here, but time is running out, and I'll probably still go out for this pay phone to tell you that you've actually contributed to the realization of helping in an area that you're grasping as a straw of salvation, which is agriculture. You didn't do anything in that field. This Rules of Procedure is important to you so that you can join the system of Europe, that is to say, to attach yourself to them, but they will not. (President: Time.) Ladies and gentlemen, time is passing, and I'm still going to report that I'm talking about your democratisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13853	Thank you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, of the members you've called upon. I can only imagine what kind of cream you'd like to give Mrs. Comic to explain to you each of these injuries. The word is Mr. Milorad Buh. With this, it looks like we're starting round two.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to you for an article. 27th and 77th. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I would like to say that I was present at the 35th session of the National Assembly's Administrative Committee when the Committee president said that the session of the Administrative Committee, session 34 and the follow-up of that session, will take place today, but the time has not been defined. It is common in such situations, when one session is interrupted and another session is called in, to define a clear time. The Rules of Procedure shall clearly give certain rights to certain persons in the sense of holding meetings, and in this case the continuation of the session. We've been waiting here for two hours today to get information on when this session will begin. Article 77 The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly have clearly established the rights of who has the possibility and the right to give notice of when the session will begin. Neither did the chairman of the Administrative Board say when it would be, nor his deputy, nor the president of the Assembly. Let's do one parallel. I'm the chairman of a committee. On two occasions, I was not present in the O.R. when certain MPs asked for a meeting of the Committee on Industry. The president of the assembly, in accordance with the provisions of Article 77, has scheduled a session, according to the law he has. In this case, the President of the Assembly, in accordance with the provisions of Article 27(1) of point 4, which states that the President of the Assembly is concerned about the timely work of the working bodies of the Assembly, in this case of the Administrative Committee, had to and was obliged, unless the President of the Administrative Board or his deputy had done so, to define the time correctly and to give notice to the MPs. We were denied. Why does it matter? It is important because of the essence and content of what the SRS requires. The Serbian Radical Party has sent a request to the Administrative Committee, as a competent state body, to resolve the issue of returning three parliamentary mandates. Why wait more than a month? There's a certain reason behind all this. Why doesn't the President of the Assembly or the Chairman of the Administrative Board come out here and say what the reasons are? Normally, none of them can do it, but here the present president of the ZES parliamentary group comes out and that the notice, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, comes out for a pay phone and says it has not hurt the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure have been injured and I request that in the day of voting this National Assembly be made known about the violation of the Rules of Procedure committed by Hope Kolundji. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13855	Thank you. The word is Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I point to a violation of our 100th Rules of Procedure. It wouldn't be burned if he did. Right away, I was challenged to point out the violation of this member of the Rules of Procedure because of the way the session was held when Mrs Comic chaired, and the direct cause is that she said, in my opinion, an unwarranted, disciplinary measure to SRS MP Mr Martinovic. This member, who we keep repeating, from day to day, member of the 100th in the last position says: "If, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue in the day of the vote." I have pointed out before that Mrs. Comic is authoritatively leading this parliament. It rises above parliament and arbitration. Behind each of our advertising injuries, the Rules of Procedure adopts a court and says – no injured Rules of Procedure. Did she ever ask if the MP was satisfied with the answer? I didn't hear. Has she ever applied the final position of Article 107? From day to day, we attend a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure in Article 100, with which it always begins, already now, a fixed phrase by Mrs. Komic. Mrs. Komic speaks in formulas and stereotypes. Of course, it says, "inspecting the stenogram," which she absolutely couldn't get an insight, because she's talking from the scene about a stenogram that's just being run at the moment. Therefore, I ask that what is happening finally be terminated, that the Rules of Procedure be respected. Mrs. Kolundzhija comes out and says, "The essence of democracy is in the process"; a new definition, but if so, respect the procedure until the end, as the Rules of Procedure have been drawn. That's one intervention I'd point to. Otherwise, what the Democratic Party is doing with the Administrative Committee, with the whole circus and with these measures that it wants to impose, if we talk about the procedure, it is the process of shutting down democracy, the silence of the opposition in parliament. Why didn't Mrs. Kolundzija, when she was here, state that she was in the U.S. Congress, as in the British Parliament, what is it like in the German Parliament, as in France, to see? You want to go to Europe, so tell me how laws are passed and how the opposition is respected there.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13857	Thank you. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic. I'll leave a comment to Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13858	Madam Chairman, Mr. Vice President, who runs this assembly, I must note that this assembly would normally work if you were to lead it. I think the one who runs the assembly must first pass the exam from the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly in order to be able to lead parliament, because without it, one cannot know whether or not someone has hurt the Rules of Procedure. I agree that you, as a very professional lawyer and a respected lawyer, can interpret certain norms of the Rules of Procedure, but not everyone can do so, especially if they take more than half the time to explain their impressions and their interpretations, the perverse, certain legal norms. Mr. Vice President, allow me to inform the public that I received a letter from the White Church, where the agricultural combination PIC "South Banat" AD White Church was privatized. According to the writings of workers, objects and equipment not listed in the list of sales of PIK "South Banat" AD Bela Church, and sales and privatisation were made in 2003... In the list of immovable and mobile properties is not the following: asphalt road to greenhouse - 1831 meters, road through the orchard, paved 1658 meters to the Red Church, village, road through the orchard, asphalt, work unit "Breskva" - 1658 meters, road from the stone cube for the work unit "Vinograd" for Urvina - 750 meters, road to the work unit "The lake", "Kruška", asphalt to Vračev Gaja - 1735 meters. It is a concrete plateau within the "Bresk" working unit - 2935 square meters, asphalt plateau between the coolant - 1528 square meters; irrigation system, watch out for the value, drop by drop at 530 hectares; main pipelines and plastics in rows of orchards and vineyards; planted vineyards, decked with concrete pillars, with no land on the surface of 198 hectares, one part with a watering system; for now peaches, with a watering system - 148 hectares... (President: Time.) Please, just let me finish. (President: Should we hurt the Rules of Procedure together? How much longer? I've got another five or six sentences. Plant cherries at 18 hectares, plant apricots -- seven acres, plant plums -- 12 acres, plant apples -- 375 hectares, one section with a watering system. Only agricultural land on an area of 1.578 hectares; a building land of 25 hectares, an unprocessable land of 53 hectares, a total of 1657 hectares did not enter, according to what the workers wrote. There are both missing moving things and most of the fleet, trucks, passenger vehicles and other moving things that have been found in the property. Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, I have decided to present this to the chairman of the National Assembly, for the Government of the Republic of Serbia one copy, for the State Auditor, another copy, for the Ministry of Serbia of Serbia, Mr. Dacic, one copy, the Republic of Serbia's public prosecutor, one copy, and for the budgetary inspection of the Republic of Serbia. Please forward this, we must insist on this because this is evidence, we need to check whether this was a regular, legal privatisation, or whether it was a thief's privatisation, and this is just one example in Serbia. (President: five minutes. Thank you. ) Serbia has been robbed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13859	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. As a precedent, I'll take it for the effort that's been put in here. For non-constituent institutions, I will make an effort to forward, but I ask the MPs to not use the table as a post office counter, but to turn directly to the institutions asking for answers and explanations. Thank you very much. The word is Mrs. Lydia Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to members 225 and 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which regulated the right of MPs to receive notice. I need a notice from the finance minister, and regarding the rights of military reservers of the former Third Army area. Power in Serbia has once again shown that it does not care at all about its citizens and their interests. Yesterday, reservers from the Jablani County had to turn to the First Municipal Court in Belgrade to exercise their rights. After a series of humiliations experienced by the government whose integrity they defended in the war in 1999, when NATO attacked our country, former fighters were forced to try to prosecute the court to exercise their rights. On several occasions, reservers of the former Third Army area addressed the Government of the Republic of Serbia with a requirement to receive the same treatment as other war participants in 1999 and to pay them war logs in full, which were paid first to some individuals and then to the reservers from Toplici County. At the last meeting with the single strike committee, the government working group tabled a proposal to pay for financial assistance, which former fighters pointed out was more than shameful. Otherwise, it was the first time the government task force ever made any offer. Of course, for former fighters, she was unacceptable and humiliating. In fact, the government's working group offered that only those reservers whose family income does not exceed 13,500 dinars could claim aid of 70,000 dinars in 12 months of war. Former war participants in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999 do not want any financial assistance. They're just asking to exercise their right to the height of the war logs paid to other military reserves. Given the economic situation in the country, they were ready to discuss the dynamics and method of payment, by increasing the number of war payments and even finding another payment mode. A proposal has been made to keep one part of the funds in securities of value, which would pay bills for electricity and other municipal fees, while part of the debt would be paid in cash. Since the government had no understanding and no common solution was found, reserve members were forced to exercise their rights in court by suing the state for whose interests they fought against NATO forces in 1999. I just want to bring up one of the inconveniences they've encountered... (President: Time.) ) Mr. Chairman, I will report again to finish this, as it concerns 12,000 Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13861	Thank you. The word has Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, as deputy head of the SRS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13862	Dear fellow Members of the People, I believe that you have all noticed that after my presentation, Mrs Nada Kolundzija left the Serbian Parliament room, as well as many other heads of parliament, especially the parliamentary majority, obviously realizing that we had seen through their intention and maneuvers who were willing to take over so that the session of the Administrative Committee would not be held and that certain issues that had been further prolonged on the agenda and remained unresolved. Now publicly, in front of all of Serbia, I say -- yes, it is true, it has well understood me, I know that her intention was, or the intention of the ZES parliamentary group not to attend the meeting of the Administrative Committee and not to resolve the matter of the mandate. So it is necessary, gentlemen, that you show your true face at that session today. You'll show it by coming and not coming. Serbia's public will see if you're ready to face this problem or not, if you want to continue anarchy in parliament, whether you want an illegal parliament, whether you want an illegal parliament or you want to go first from this house and arrange it in accordance with the Constitution and the law, and then we'll arrange the whole state. I find the basis for reporting in Article 27, because we have found that the President of the National Assembly has not performed his duty by allowing the session not to be scheduled for a month and not to be on the agenda for what is waiting to be on the agenda. So, we're fighting for not to let the citizens of Serbia down, not to let the voters down, first of all, the SRS, but I believe you don't want to let down your voters who understand you or have seen you as a political party that will fight for some democratic principles. You're going to show the real face today. We believe that you are not Democrats, that you are not in the right sense of democracy, that you may be Democrats. But whether the consultations are now with Mr Tadic or Mr Manter, we will find out what composition of the consultation is being held. It's up to you to do what your conscience tells you to do. Either we have a sovereign state here, and we decide for ourselves how to edit our own house or we publicly tell the Serbian people that this is colonial democracy and that our country is being governed by Wardsworth and Manter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13863	The People's Messenger Mirko Munjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13864	Articles 27 and 104. Rules of Procedure. Of course, Article 27 absolutely does not apply to the current chairman, to you, Mr Nikola, but to the chairman who led the assembly session before you. When our MP Dusan Maric said that there was a grave violation of the Rules of Procedure because one of the MPs said that the president of the state had spoken to the donkey, and the chairman found that in those words there was no violation of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, she did indeed commit a harsh violation of the current Rules of Procedure. Her argument is that there is no injury in this, and by not realizing her mistake, she has done another violation of the 27th indent of the 5th Rules of Procedure. So if someone in such a way insults the dignity of this home and, by the way, the President of the State, it's nothing but disrespect for this Rules of Procedure. The chairman is indeed obliged to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the law, and is bound by Article 27(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. When it comes to these fine sweet animals with a little longer ears, I must say that all those who are flatly falling into the future, forgetting the past, all those who are in such a hurry to forget those who made them politicians, all those who forget about their people, they look like that story about donkeys in Italy; you know how they forced them forward – they put a stick on their heads, and on the top of the stick a little hay, so the poor animals rush forward thinking they'll reach that hay. This is about some stick, it looks like, but at its top, it's not hay, it looks like someone's got it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13865	The word has a folk MP, Mr. Jovan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I'm reporting for an article. 225th and 226th, and I request a notice on when the settlement will be built in the Roma village of Rit in Panchev. I visited that village and I received information that it was promised by the government in Panchev that if they voted for the party they would build a settlement, infrastructure, asphalted etc. To this day, the local government has done nothing. This is another proof that the Roma do not only vote for the SRS, although most vote for the SRS, as all Serbs do not vote for one political party; there are various parties, it is democratic, but it is not democratic to manipulate a people who are truly threatened in a political way. It is neither democracy nor respect for the national minorities, of whom they are asking for a vote and to support local self-government, and when they get power there is nothing left. If not this authority, I hope that the other government that comes, or the SRS, will do what they haven't done. The Serbian Radical Party -- Dr Vojislav Seselj, in all cities where she was in local self-government, where she led local self-government, fulfilled all promises made before the elections. Everything they have promised the Roma community in certain cities has been built and the Roma are satisfied throughout Serbia. But what will happen in Panceva, we will hear, but as a Messenger of the people, I demand a word. Also, Mr. Chairman, I want to say this: we all know how the Roma community lives today, I believe most Serbs want to help the Roma community, but I'm surprised if 250 containers came from the Federal Republic of Germany, plus 90, that after four years only 11 containers were given where it burned. I'm asking a question and I'm asking for a notice where the rest of the containers are and who are they to betray, give, sell, and why isn't that assigned to the Roma community? (President: Time.) In the end, Mr. Chairman, I want to express my respect for you because you are democratically leading this assembly and respecting democracy and MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13867	Thank you. Mr. Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13868	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Novakovic, I'm advocating an injury. 27 and 104. Namely, the most severe violation is the dignity of the National Assembly, not from you, Mr. Novakovic, but from the previous chairman, Gordana Komic. On two occasions, she issued a warning to SRS MP Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic because, as a member of the Administrative Committee, he asked to be informed when a session of the Administrative Committee would be held. I think the way Mrs. Comic runs the National Assembly sessions is more than shameful and humiliating to the MPs. Punishing SRS MPs is a special pleasure for Mrs. Comic. I'm going to give you a few concrete examples of where, at the very least, double arches are present. Mrs. Hope Kolundji's address to Mrs. Vereca Radetti, when she said, and how much her throat was wearing, "what do you want, I'll kick you all out," Mrs. Comic didn't hear. The address of young MP Mark Djurisic to Mr Krasic, when he cursed his mother, is more than shameful. She didn't hear that either. The way in which Mr Srdjan Milivojevic, who has just entered, addressed the MPs DSS and the NS, where he was told only a reminder, following the intervention of DSS and NS MPs, clearly speaks about what kind of dictatorial bat you hold in the Assembly. I don't mean you, Mr. Novakovic, but that Mrs. Komic is an instrument in the hands of Boris Tadic. The way the citizen Tomislav Nikolic was punished in this assembly, when he physically attacked MP Srboljub Zivanovic and pulled him by the hair, where he received only a warning, clearly speaks about what this is all about. The pact was signed, Mr. Novakovic, between Manter, Wardsworth, Boris Tadic and Tomislav Nikolic, to transfer all responsibility and powerlessness of the ruling coalition to the opposition, exclusively to the SRS. It is very good that sessions of the National Assembly continue to be transmitted, so that Serbian citizens can see. The Serbian Radical Party is only asking for what is legitimate to it, which is 78 seats here. (President: Please don't throw it away. Your time is up. If I could just say one sentence? (President: He can't. Thank you, I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13869	That'll do it. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13870	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, while we have been dealing with the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure, criminal trains have been passing through Serbia for a long time. I called in an article. In 225 and 226, let me inform the citizens of Serbia and ask for some explanations and information from the competent ministries. I'm sorry the Belgrade Law School students aren't here, but they left before I answered the word, this would be very interesting for them. For you, some other students, sir, are in charge... (Chairman: Please don't throw away, let the gentleman finish. )It is about the University of the Union in Belgrade, about private college, more specifically about the Faculty of Law of the University of the Union in Belgrade. On Founding... What the gentleman said, "What the coat of arms is born of time does not correct"; what is done on criminal grounds time cannot correct. During the founding, the basis for the Faculty of Law of the University of the Union was the consent given by the then dean of the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad Srdjan Sarkic, the native brother of Nebojsa Sarkic, without the consent of the teaching and scientific council of the Faculty of Law at Novi Sad University. So, first crime scene. Founders: Mirko Draskovic, Slobodan Badžević, Nebojsa Sarkić, Milena Trčević-Prokić, Vladimir Vodanelic. The first three were at the Department of Justice, buying computers, and there are indications that enormous prices for these computers were paid and that a large portion of the money was deposited in private pockets. I'm asking the M.O.P. to review computer procurement at the time for the Justice Department. The Faculty of Business Law held courses for training bankruptcy managers. Among the lecturers was Mr. Goran Kljajevic, who barely got out of prison after two years, and was charged with bankruptcy, as one of the leaders of the bankruptcy mafia. The crown of all this is an ad that's been published in "Politics" all over the side where they... (President: Time.) I'm sorry, just one more sentence. Where they are now holding seminars to prepare for law exams, and students who come there to prepare for a judicial exam are obliged to give 45,000 dinars. I request an explanation and a notice from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance to answer all these questions, and I will deliver the material.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13871	Thank you. The word is from the MP Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13872	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, I would like to say a few sentences about what we could in all written and electronic media to monitor from last night, which is the action of arresting suspects for abuses in the Ministry of Defense. So 16 is a suspect, two doctors are with VMA, as we get information, in a very populist way, and from RTS, and today we can read in all the newspapers. What's the problem, actually? I'm reporting for an officer. In 225 and 226, and I ask the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Defence, therefore, Mr Dacic and Sutanovac, to explain and answer the following question. First of all, I have to say that the entire public is known that the SRS has always advocated, advocated, and will always advocate and go that way to fight corruption and crime. Corruption and crime are not disputed and whoever does such a thing in this country, according to law, according to a judicial verdict that comes should also be convicted. But what's this about? I think in this case, where people, 30 of them, are suspected (I stress that "suspect"), violates the Code of Criminal Procedure. The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure are being violated and some actions are being taken in a very populist way, such as showing the characters of these suspects on television, bringing out all their generals and all that should follow after a judicial verdict. So, at least by respecting their children, their families, their parents, I don't think this rash way is a way to represent the public's arrest so-called. And yet undefined and clearly defined criminals. I'm saying again, all those who resorted to a particular type of crime, whether it's a construction mafia or any other, should be convicted only when a judicial verdict is passed. I think it's absolutely familiar and it's something that's most normal. We support, of course... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I apologize, I end, the SRS supports the activities of the MUP and the Ministry of Defence that are involved in this whole process, but, please, without violating human rights. Not long ago, we had the same case with the great legend of our football, the "red and white", Dragan Jajic, and it was done in the same way. It's all right, we absolutely need to condemn every crime, but, please, let us be human, to be dignified and to protect the human rights and families of those people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13873	Thank you. I think we can agree from word to word with Mrs. Vukicevic. Mr Tomislav Ljubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. If some of the happy times were what they were, I'd say I came from a town of cosmetics, that I came from a city of textile industry, from a "little Manchester," that I came from a city of conditor products, from a city of hospitality, from a city of chemical industry, a metal complex. I can only make a sad finding that none of the companies mentioned there worked, and they were all carriers of the development of Leskovec and Jablanic County. It's exactly what democracy has done since 2001, headed by a "yellow company". Everything that worked doesn't work anymore, everyone who worked no longer works, at the unemployment level is between 36,000 and 37,000. Now you can figure out if in that city, which has worked and which has worked, anything works. We became a city of sadness, a city of the unemployed. We now have an extremely interesting situation. It is precisely those from the "yellow company" who advocated such a situation that was created in Leskovac, and now in "yellow company" we have projects and demands to get out of the crisis. The assembly was supposed to be held yesterday, they made an obstruction, and it's a job for the internal affairs authorities, for the MUP. The opposition party's representatives, SRS, DSS, NS and NDS are under attack. The towers and cities are being promised and the Parliament and the mayor, the man with the vision, who has started much and much to do, and that is Dr Goran Cvetanovic. On this basis, many from the "yellow company" have already sent certain delegations. A project has arrived to help two billion dinars to bring local government, local parliament and local self-government into operation. How do they work? In the period after 2000, they had twice the power, twice the temporary measure. In this situation, when the Leskovec City Assembly was held, all directors, the chiefs, were to report business in the previous period. That's exactly why it happened at yesterday's session, which was postponed for tomorrow. It happened for these reasons, and the dubiosis from the previous period is eight hundred million dinars, and that's exactly what it is. They made Democrats. I'll get back to you on this basis later, and I'll bring up a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13875	The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13876	Why is it necessary to have members of 225 and in particular 226, in exactly the form in which it is present in the current Rules of Procedure, and of course by this article I am reporting? Because some topics of vital importance cannot wait for an open door, it is necessary to react immediately. You probably remember that freezing rain. If it hadn't been for the New Serbia warning from us and the Belgrade mayor's appeal to influence employers to show maximum tolerance to those who are due to come to work, and are moving on a transport that doesn't work on uncleared streets, nothing would have happened. Like this, the mayor did react. I really think that Article 226 in that case was also saved for Belgraders, as well as for many other citizens of Serbia. With this in mind, I have a question that was raised yesterday by deputy head of the New Serbia parliamentary group Mr Miroslav Markicevic. So, after the publication of the research, so-called. The SES, the Union of Economists of Serbia, that Belgrade is the cheapest city in the region, also reported the National Consumer Organisation of Serbia, as well as the Movement for Consumer Protection of Belgrade. In addition, phones were heated at the New Serbia Parliament Club and the New Serbia City Committee, and I believe in other opposition parties. I don't have to explain to you how angry the Belgraders are when a number of research has explained to them that they live better than they live in Ljubljana, Sarajevo, Podgorica, Zagreb, Sofia, Bucharest and Budapest. There was this mention of the family, of various verb forms, I must say, quite justifiable, because the people can no longer listen to lies and nonsense. In addition, they also accompanied the results of their haired research on the rise of the ruling party's ratings, as well as these RIK thieves who morally resign, but who do not return money morally. They must have been so offended that they couldn't be any different from buying a couple of gnomes and driving some white bears. So, not only is Belgrade's claim that the cheapest city in the environment offends the common sense and dignity of citizens, but in some ways it gives wind to speculators who will raise prices, because, for God's sake, if Belgrade has the cheapest market, when it's in the capital, in the interior, it's all for sale. We wouldn't be surprised, of course, if after such a finding, a real race started that would raise prices in retail stores and cut out the few skins left on his back. Of course, again, research has been carried out by your economic experts, and we already have a huge experience that in these quasi-expert groups there are the largest hohstapplers, for which the people have made a new version of a saying that is now – who steals and lies. So, who, by whose orders, has ordered this research, these results, and why does the state not charge the budget by charging penalties from unconscious producers and traders, and in accordance with the Consumer Protection Act? The budget would only be reported if fines were charged for inadequate storage of goods.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13877	Thank you. The word is Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I report to members 225 and 226. I refer the question to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health. In September, Minister Rasim Ljajic was sent a letter from the Children's and Youth's Special Institute "Dr Nikola Šumenković" from Stamnica and also addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on 17 December 2008, again on 5 January and 16 January, also this year. Namely, employees at this office say that former director Stevic Ivica has invested a lot of things, he has made efforts and work to adapt facilities, that he has built a lot with donations, that menus for children have become diverse, good, that children are well-trained, clean, satisfied, bed linen and facilities are also spotlessly clean at all times. The former director also organized numerous trips, going to the sea, etc. Workers ask the question why the director, who worked so well and hard and spent a lot of time devoted to the children, has been replaced. Afterwards, there comes a certain Miroljub Lazarevic, who is known as the largest foreign exchange smuggler, who used vehicles of the Institute for private purposes, which is listed in these letters, changed contracts for the work of individual workers, voluntarily moved two users of protected housing in Petrovac, then closed, for unknown reasons, to a baker they had inside the institution for their own needs. Then, it is also said that in 2006, he voluntarily took the social programme and was paid the amount of 314.000 dinars on behalf of it. Returning to the same institution from which he took the social programme, likely aware of the fact that his return was illegal, which he damaged for the amount mentioned above, he publicly said at the workers' assembly on 9 May 2008, that he would return the total amount paid to him for the social programme, which, of course, was not done by today. These letters list more malfeasances of the current director. I wouldn't go so far into the details of whether the workers are right, whether the director, this present or former, but it's just amazing that the Ministry doesn't respond to these letters, especially when it comes to children, and those kids from the special office, who need a lot more attention. It is simply inappropriate that Minister Ljajic, to whom this letter was sent in September, has not yet visited this facility. That is why I urge these two ministries to tour this institution as quickly as possible and to see what the conditions for children are, because children suffer the most because of these conflicts in the institution itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13879	Thank you. Before, on the basis of Article 85(1), I give a break until 15.00 hours, I repeat, in any case, if anyone has not heard, an extension of the 34th session of the Administrative Board will be held today at 15.00 hours in the Press Room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13880	We'll continue the session in the afternoon. The word has a folk letter from Lydia Dimitrijevic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13881	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I need a notice from the Minister of Finance. In my previous report, in order not to overstep the Rules of Procedure allowed time, I have not been able to say which notes I need from the said minister. I was talking about the lack of understanding of Serbian government members, and in particular the finance minister for the problems that were brought before them on several occasions by military reservers of the former Third Army area. It has been ten years since the war, and the conditions in which most Serbian war veterans live are devastating both for them and for the country that sent them to war. Many of them have not solved the housing issue, doing heavy physical work for a low wage. Research points to the general health hazard of these people. The most common diseases of which suffer are increased blood pressure, muscle joint disease, stomach ulcer, visual disturbance, as well as post-traumatic stress disorder. I want to bring up one of the unpleasantness encountered by the fighters in earlier negotiations with the finance minister. How much understanding they came across at Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic's statement that it is better to take out a healthy tooth than to ask her for money. I will remind only that the government of Serbia's Action Team for the end of co-operation with The Hague tribunal has announced a million-euro reward in the dinar countervalue for information that will lead to the location and arrest of Ratko Mladic, and for information on Goran Hadzic, 250,000 euros. At the question of SRS MP Vjerica Radete, where the budget envisioned a budget of 1,250,000 euros, in dinar equivalent, for information on Mladic and Hadzic, the Ministry of Finance responded that for unplanned purposes for which no appraisal was made or for purposes for which the funds were not provided during the year were not sufficient from the current budget reserve. I demand the finance minister to know how no money can be found for the snitches who betray Serbian heroes, and for the reservers who responded to their military department's call and defended their country's interests in Kosovo and Metohija in 1999, so they have to start a dispute against their own state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13882	National MP Nikola Žutic and National MP Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic are not in the hall. National MP Dragan Stevanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13883	Madam Chairman, I'm reporting from Article 226. Rules of Procedure, and this is the second time today, in order to indirectly draw attention to the meaning of Articles 225 and 226. A Rules of Procedure that is still current and in force, which the ruling majority Dracon wants to change and turn into a restrictive and rigid document. Namely, I'm going to ask my question to the President of the Assembly, in this case it seems to me that it goes to your address after you chair, and I'm going to define it at the end of my three minutes. But to ask the question I'm going to use one of the findings that Mr. Chairman Nikola Novakovic has just made, he won't mind me, I'll paraphrase it, but the point is, he said we're all here because of democracy or that we're developing it, or something like that. It would be declassified to argue about it, I believe it is, but everything that has happened in the last two days, especially today and especially this morning in the afternoon part of the session, as far as fellow Martinovic is concerned, objectively makes it clear that you and we on the right hand side of the democracy category understand and experience completely differently. That this is also true of the draft Rules of Procedure, namely the decision to amend the Rules of Procedure on the Work of the National Assembly, says a lot of things that happened in the process of establishing this assembly and from the moment of the constitution, well, here, to this day. You tried very unseriously and carelessly to explain your intentions with this Rules of Procedure that they are in the role of ensuring political stability, above all in parliament, and then of course throughout the country. I think it's very unserious and irresponsible. This story of the Rules of Procedure, which we will talk about when the debate begins, is like that dentist's story: when a man's tooth hurts, instead of going to the dentist to heal or take him out, he goes to the pharmacy and buys sedatives to calm his pain. Such will be the fate of this Rules of Procedure when it comes to political stability. As far as my question is concerned, Mrs. Comic, there is a document sent by the government, called the National Integration Programme. Among other things, it reads: a constituent session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was held on 11 June 2008, with 250 MPs from eight parties or coalitions elected in the new assembly of the Republic of Serbia. My question for you today, to which I seek an answer, is: how many political parties or coalitions do the parliament of the Republic of Serbia have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13884	The information needed is on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's website and this is where you can be informed. National MP Dušanka Plecevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure and I request a notice and an explanation from the Minister of Health Milosavljevic who is responsible for the fact that hundreds of Zaječar municipality citizens are left without free flu vaccines? In the course of the flu vaccination action at Zaječar Health Centre, as well as in previous years, a sufficient number of free vaccines have not been provided for all risk categories of the population, although for the first time this year the Ministry of Health has made it possible to order additional doses in all health institutions. The flu epidemic, expected during this month, is not protected by all the elderly, all chronic patients and professionally endangered citizens of this municipality because the authorities at the centre ordered an insufficient number of units, i.e. 5.150 doses, which was spent very quickly, with unprecedented crowds and incidents, so they had to intervene and the police. According to the competent doctor Dr. Predrag Marusic, assistant director of the Public Health Institute "Timok" in Zajecar, who ordered all vaccines for the whole of Timočka Krajina, his assessment was that about 7,000 vaccines were needed and asked for written confirmation from the Zajecar Health Centre that they did not need additional doses. Even so, the bitter citizens threatened him with a bomb, according to his statement given to the daily list. Those who lost their vaccine were forced to buy it at a city pharmacy at a price of about 500 dinars. Whether this is about negligence or manipulation, I expect an explanation from the Minister of Health. I also ask Minister Tomica Milosavljevic if he has taken concrete actions concerning complaints and showing employees at the Bor Health Centre to some illegal management of the health centre. The SRS Parliament Club received a letter from one part of the employees at the Bor Health Centre stating that they addressed both the health minister and the minister of labour and social policy, as well as various inspection bodies, but no one reacted on this issue. Please explain and answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13886	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13887	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the basis of my report is, Mrs. Comic, Art. 27 and 106. The Rules of Procedure that you in the afternoon, in the most harsh way possible, have broken. I remind you, both the MPs and the public, that you gave Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic two warnings because he asked that you, as the current chairman, say at what time the Administrative Board was scheduled. You, and I have the stenographic notes here, said that it was at 3 p.m. and the man, not guilty or indemnity, who gave the warning, because I guess as a member of the Administrative Committee, he was supposed to throw beans to know that it was at 13.00 p.m. But, Mrs. Comic, you have deceived the citizens of Serbia. It's 3:15 p.m., and the board of directors' session hasn't started. Now, I'd like you to tell us, after I'm finished, I don't want you to interrupt me if you don't feel the need that comes to you from time to time, to whom you're going to give a warning measure because the public of Serbia has been deluded, on your part, that the Management Board will be sitting at 3:00 p.m. and that on the agenda you will begin point 9 of the session two days ago, and that point 9 is taking, that is, to establish the resignations for the three former SRS MPs. It's about that, and it's obvious now, and it's obvious that what we've been trying to explain in the afternoon is, I'm sure, very successfully to the citizens of Serbia, and you know it yourself, that you from the Democratic Party are not ready to act according to the name of your party. Obviously, you have no intention of working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, of respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is obvious that you have the Manter and the Constitution of Serbia, and the laws and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You work exclusively on a warrant. I don't think of you personally this time, because you're working on various orders during the day, depending on which DS factions they arrive, but the fact is that Boris Tadic works exclusively on the orders of Manter, an American ambassador. I'm sorry, I overstepped for nine seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13888	There's no damage to article 27. A stenogram can determine that by the time the first is given, the second reminder is respected by all the obligations of the chairman of the Rules of Procedure, before the measure of one is given and the other reminders. The Management Board meeting was scheduled at 3 p.m. and everything that will happen at that session is on the Committee members and on the Committee president. The president, president or chairman of the National Assembly, may, by applying Article 27, be aged only if, for some reasons and without explaining to the members of the Committee, the session was not held, or any other reason that it was then performed and that the session was not held at the agreed time. Do they want the word authorised representatives? National MP Milan M. Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13889	Dear People's MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 226 and 225, requesting notice specifically from the president of the assembly. This is the following: Is the document valid, has the assembly procedure passed, all MPs received it through the Administrative Committee, when the resignation of DSJgoda Jorge's MPs was established? This document is listed 16. 12. In 2008, he says, "The resignation. On the basis of Article 102(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the treaty on mutual rights and obligations, I submit an irrevocable resignation to the term of office of MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, by the authority of the applicant of the electoral list ZES - Boris Tadic, i.e. the authorised person of the applicant of the electoral list Boris Rankovic from Obrenovac, the street of Mislodinska 163... ", the home number doesn't matter, "... to submit this resignation unconditionally, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to the competent authority or service. According to my resignations and the end of the mandate of the MP, it is necessary that, in accordance with the applicable legislation, my parliamentary mandate be assigned to the ZES-Boris Tadic electoral list, and according to a proposal proposed by the DS coalition member. In Belgrade," without a date, "2008, submission of the MP of the people, Jagoda Jorga. "As far as I understand it, this is a blank resignation that is in accordance with the Constitution, which has been respected and passed all the procedure. I'm asking the President of the Assembly to give me an explanation of whether this document is valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13890	The People's MP, Ms. Radeta, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). I apologize, MP Ilic, I was told that you only warned that MP Milan Nikolic wanted a word. You will be given a word after the People's Parliament of the Faith of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13891	It's no problem, we'll all get to the turn, all of us interested in participating in Parliament's work. Mrs. Komic, again, they are a member of the 27th and a member of the 27th, when I warned you earlier that you had roughly violated article 106 because you gave two warnings to your colleague, Alexander Martinovic, you said that this was not true and that there are stenograms, that you could make an insight into how you reacted. Mr. Martinovic said, "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I risk getting a warning, but I really have to ask you, Mrs. Comic, when will the session of the Administrative Committee be scheduled? ". You say, "I give you the first warning, as a measure, because of the violation of the warning given, because you received the information twice" etc. This is really something amazing. You're moving on. Mr. Martinovic further notes, reminds me that King Milan shot the radicals, and that it may also fall on Boris Tadic's mind, which is obvious, given his behaviour, and says, "Mrs. Comic, again I risk getting a warning. You said – the session was scheduled first at 15.00 hours, then at 14.00 hours, so now I ask you Serbian – is it 2:00 or 3:00? What time is the board meeting scheduled? ". I don't have time to read everything. He says, "I ask you now Serbian, once again, is it 2:00 or 15.00, can you answer me? ". Then, of course, you begin your observation and philosophy: "People's MP, I warn you to continue to violate the Rules of Procedure... "where you found that basis, no one knows it, obviously there is no one here, and that this is a warning before giving another warning. You say, "The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundzija, president of the ZES parliamentary group, has been asked by your colleagues several times when the appointment session of the Administrative Committee will continue. The People's Parliament, by looking at the stenograms, said it would be at 3 p.m. Afterwards, I said that I would ask you to stop misusing the right to receive words, when, apparently, MPs of the SRS group have information on when to continue the session of the Administrative Committee, and only after the president of the parliamentary group has given information on your request that it will be at 15.00 hours. ". After that, your claim, so, "Once again, at your request, the chairman... "you, "... The Continuing Session of the Administrative Board is today, 11 February at 15.00 hours. ". So you didn't say "session scheduled," you said, "session extension"... My question, Mrs. Komic, is why there is no continuation of the session of the Administrative Committee, are you ready to withdraw these remarks that you contradicted to your colleague Martinovic and are you going to apologize for having sinned against the Rules of Procedure and for having... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. ) Thank you very much. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13892	I thank you for the quote, since you are credible for a fellow member of the parliamentary group twice read that in his presentation he twice said "I risk getting a warning", which means he shows awareness that he is violating the Rules of Procedure. It is not the first time and it is not the only time that MPs break the Rules of Procedure, that anyone who speaks and that I know it and that, in the name of tolerance and silent agreement, none of them speak. The previous history of communication between the various MPs and me as chairman was completed immediately before his announcement by giving a clear warning measure that any abuse of the right to speak of breach of the Rules of Procedure and, if the content of the hearing is met with political views on the start of the session of the Administrative Board, will be the basis for giving notice. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, whose knowledge is both business and legal, undisputed and respected in this assembly, comes out and twice says - I risk getting a warning. It shows awareness of the intention to break the Rules of Procedure. He didn't leave me any space, really, except for the measure to be said. I ask you now to listen to the warning I declare, that, as a violation of the procedure, the President-in-Office's decision to give the warning measure will be considered the basis for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. All MPs sitting in this hall now know very well that we are applying the Rules of Procedure very broadly and tolerateably, starting with the application of Articles. 225 and 226, which is the tradition of its species, with the addition of democratic fluids; even if I agree, the members of 225 and 226 apply regardless of the right to speak the word on where the procedure is injured, but belong to the chapter of the Law and the duties of the Members of Parliament. Since we all know that, I'm asking you not to exaggerate in violating the right to say that you're talking about injury procedures. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic consciously asked to be punished by warning in the first and second cases. When you get a full stenogram, I repeat the warning, every call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure because the warning measure is given will be considered the basis for giving the warning measure, because the criminal measures are the right of the chairman. National MP Radisa Ilic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason for my address to the competent authorities of this country, that is, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and by art. 226. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and in particular the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Affairs, is a fact that casts doubt on the Serbian government that the funds planned and defined by the budget do not spend as the law that the National Assembly has voted on. That's why I'm asking for a notice from that ministry. Here's the thing. The 2008 budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management identified the funds for the 21st-century "Self for the 21st Century" project, which covers, I think, 27 villages in Serbia, Malta, in each county of one. The funds were designed for the construction and reconstruction of infrastructure in these villages, such as schools, roads, infirmarys, etc. The funds per village, based on the projects already attached, amounted to between 30 million and 50 million dinars, so it turns out that a total of one billion dinars were planned for this purpose. Of which, of course, there was nothing. It all came down to free advertising of parties in power during the election campaign. Promises thus became a pre-election lie. The villages ran out of water, schools, no roads, and why all this? Because Serbia has exactly the kind of government, which promises one thing and does quite another, that is, what does not benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One billion dinars have obviously evaporated, say, may have gone to the salaries of Krishta and his colleagues in other public enterprises; she went to finance, unfortunately, gay associations, which is a disgrace and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Culture; she went to various teams by elite hotels and restaurants; she went to suspicious services under contract, etc. Half of Serbia, unfortunately, is empty. The villages have relaxed or it will become a decade from now. Instead of that very country showing concern for the village, she is, in fact, turning the village into a tap. There's a tragic scene going on right now. The presidents of the municipalities should explain to the villagers in these villages that they did not agree with them but their party colleagues from the government of the Republic of Serbia. It should also explain to citizens the pre-election fraud they were exposed to during the May elections campaign, similar to the one with the free actions of Mladjan Dinkic. I request an official explanation, i.e. a notice, with specific names of the village and the allocations of funds, and with regard to the project "The Village for the 21st Century", as well as information on why this project did not take place in 2008. I'm also looking for information on where these means are spent, if they're not for what they were intended for, as well as information on what's going to happen to this project in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13894	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Komic, I would like to try, for the sake of this, to clarify how and in what way it has come to you to give notice to our MP, Aleksandr Martinovic, and I think that the stenographic notes will be enough, not with a desire to put you on a pillar in any way, but because of the citizens of Serbia and the MPs, because we think that they must, above all, respect the facts and the truth. Now I will tell you what you said and why Aleksandar Martinovic asked the question he asked. You say, "I ask all MPs who are in the room, and those who are not to in any way inform themselves that the continuation of the session of the Administrative Board is today at 3 p.m. and that we do not abuse, or at 14.00 p.m., whenever it is scheduled. "Mrs. Comic, let's analyze: "Please all those in the O.R. and those not in the O.R.," but let's put it aside, but say, "the Continuing session of the Administrative Board today at 3 p.m. and not abuse it, or at 14.00 p.m. whenever it's scheduled." Maybe it's 1:00, maybe it's 6:00. Mrs. Comic, tell me what time you were thinking. What I've read, what are we like as ambassadors who are in the O.R. and those who aren't in the O.R.? Fifteen or fourteen? Believe me, Alexander Martinovic noticed that. He responded immediately and wanted to ask you a question. When? What time is this? Look out, he's a member of the Administrative Committee. It wasn't on the ad board, we didn't get into the Parliament club, not members of the Administrative Board received a call for a session of the Administrative Board. So, absolutely without any desire to break the Rules of Procedure, to put you in an awkward situation, we just wanted that simple fact to know, since you told us what you said, he went out and said, I risk you giving me a warning, but a simple question. Here, Mrs. Comic, I'll come down, please, on this basis, tell me when the Administrative Board was scheduled?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13896	Regardless of the fact that you have not listed a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been broken, what you are obliged to do, and by looking at the stenogram, therefore, at the time you read the note you can see, here is evidence once again, MP Dragan Todorovic says, "I forgot, Article 106." The same pitch situation was when I said after 3 p.m. at 2 p.m., because you threw out the bench: "It's not 3:00 p.m., it's 2:00 p.m." There is a time between the stenographic note that you have now read and more MPs who have spoken and my given warning when we have definitely determined that the session is scheduled for 15.00 hours. After that, MP Aleksandar Martinovic gets his word on the basis of article 100 and in the first presentation, I leave out in a free quote, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, saying "I risk getting a warning", which shows awareness that he has come out for a pay phone with awareness that he is violating the Rules of Procedure and is counting on him not to be punished. If I hadn't said a warning that such an explanation would be considered the basis for a warning, then I would have gone over it. Since I made it clear just before his announcement that the search for the right to a word per article 100 and the explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure would be considered the basis for a warning, then the warning was given, after which it was... Once again, I thank the MPs of the SRS who quote their colleague, I repeat, his MPial skills and his legal knowledge are indisputable, so for the second time he says, "I risk getting a warning." That was why he was given another reminder. Now I repeat the warning: every search for a word, and then, in expressing the statement of objection for the sake of a warning, will be considered the basis for a warning. Please keep that in mind. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 100(4). Mrs. Komic, thank you very much for spending a lot of time explaining this to us, but I didn't ask what you said. I'd like to ask you to get back on the subject, as some people like to say, so that based on my stenographic notes... I've read, if I have to do it one more time, but so it doesn't turn out that I'm using the pay phone just asking you, based on what you said so the MPs in the O.R. and out of the O.R. might know what time it is, to tell us what time the Administrative Board was scheduled, nothing more, Mrs. Comic. I guess these are common sense people, there won't be any problem. We won't be calling again on this at all when the board of directors is scheduled, but tell us what time, because you say you had an announcement. Please tell the MPs at what time the Administrative Board was scheduled, based on the stenograms and your words spoken not during the speech of Aleksandr Martinovic, but before him, after the release of Mrs Nada Kolundzhija. I'd really like to ask you, just tell us what time it is, and nothing more. Thank you very much, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13898	You have not once again listed a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured. It should probably turn into a practice right now, so the presidents of the parliamentary groups don't have to do it, and they have to. So you must specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who is injured. (Dragan Todorovic, from place: Article 100(4), I said. ) This member of the Rules of Procedure is not related to what you have explained in the presentation, and I ask you to establish by way of insight into the stenogram yourself, from the part of the stenogram that you have read to the part of the stenogram when MP Aleksandar Martinovic received his word, that by reading the stenogram at which point it was unquestionably found that the session of the Administrative Board was held at 15.00 hours. National MP Filip Stojanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13899	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting for an article. 225 and 226. The Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure and I request a notice from the government of Serbia and the KIM Ministry. We know how important six-point negotiations are for the Serb community in Kosovo and Metohija, but the Albanian side and their leaders are becoming more nervous because there is a condition on the Albanian side that Serbia should recognise Kosovo's independence. The international community is required that Belgrade and Pristina's negotiations run on an equal footing, as between the two sovereign states, which is unrealistic and impossible. Serbia must not recognise Kosovo's independence, but must not allow any conditions for any negotiations. We all know that UN Security Council Resolution 1244, which guarantees Serbia sovereignty and territorial integrity, is still in force. I ask the Serbian Government to inform and explain whether it is true that Mr Zaneri is conducting secret negotiations with our people from Belgrade in Bezovica, without this home being familiar, nor are we MPs informed of such important matters. On the other hand, Zaneri also holds secret talks with Albanian leaders to convince them to sit at a negotiating table where Peter Feith, as EU special envoy, would take part as a mediator. Albanians are asking the UN not to participate in the negotiations, as their mission, they say, is practically completed with the formation of Kosovo security forces, whose operation began on January 21st 2009. Their composition, as you know, consists of KLA members, i.e. UCK. At the moment, these forces pose a potential and serious threat to peace and stability in the region, especially in Kosovo and Metohija. They are jeopardizing the stability of the entire Balkans. These forces were formed as an illegal paramilitary organisation, which poses a clear threat to Serbia's security. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, you from the ruling coalition, don't forget, you've practically destroyed everything called the army and the police since 2000, and everything in agreement with your friends from the West who brought you into power. Why? To destroy everything that is Serbian and Orthodox. Everything they asked for, you gave them everything, and they're still looking for no end, just because we don't have a host to say once, enough. Now the president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, is protesting sharply with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon, and then with NATO Secretary-General, but there is nothing there, because they are preparing their army for new conquests, aided by Americans, English and Germans. That is why I ask the President of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic, to address MPs in parliament and all citizens of Serbia and to give us answers to some questions, what they will do specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13900	People's MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13901	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I have been forced to re-prove the violation of our 100th Rules of Procedure. I'm rereading the last two attitudes. Of course, it doesn't get in my time. "The president of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards." So, after what the MP puts out as an injury. Final position: "If, even after an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote." Mrs. Komic, you have not acted on Article 100 for one moment. Rules of Procedure, and you always start giving words to an MP by quoting this member. You are a permanent violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. What is this violation of yours looking at? First, take the sessions in an authoritative manner. That's your problem. Mr. Novakovic, who chaired, is a tolerated man who never allows himself to analyze what anyone thought, or to share us according to whether we have legal skills or knowledge, and on the basis that we can have more or less rights. Mrs. Comic, we are all equal here, but you allow yourself something that is not allowed in parliament and in democracy. You're arbitating. You say "no injuries to the Rules of Procedure" and it's over. You do not respect the final position of article 100, where you are not given the right to judge. You did yours, you gave an interpretation. Who's judging? All MPs. You don't have Parliament's authority at the moment and you can't wear it. To the side that you don't deserve, aside from what you've said today, and to Mr. Martinovic, unwarrantedly. The man tried to use Article 27 and was given the necessary information for further action. That's all a man tried to do. I plead to Article 27: "The work of the National Assembly is well-timed and coordinated." We also heard how a stenogram was quoted. You regularly say, "By looking at the stenogram it can be concluded," but the stenogram is only real, you have no insight into that stenogram. You're going so far, you're also giving us a lexic lecture. Mrs. Comic, it's not my fault that the Serbian language doesn't have 450,000, as in Webster. Language is something that's living and variable. When someone says "I pronounce the Rules of Procedure", they can say, and that is not contrary to Serbian. The second is spelling. Spelling rules are something else and it should be respected. Please answer me why you don't respect the final position of article 100 and give an explanation for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13902	People's MP, there's no breach of article 100, no third, no fourth, no final position. Whenever a MP wants to speak, he gets a word. When he explains, if he explains the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm obliged to tell him whether or not he's hurt. If I agree with the MP that there's been an injury, there's no reason to explain it. If I don't think there's any damage to the Rules of Procedure, then I'll give an explanation. It is up to the MP to choose whether he wants the Assembly to declare it or not. In this way, Article 100 is applied in each individual case. (Paia Momchilov, from the place: you say the messenger throws away.) Here, now I'm throwing, I'm unhappy with what you said. So this is informal communication, which you point me to, and it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part again. ) People's MP, you asked me for an explanation and you got an explanation. After that, you spoke to me inappropriately, knowing that you have the right to seek word by the Rules of Procedure and to call for an explanation that I have violated the procedure, that you are not satisfied and that you want the Assembly to plead. That part's not controversial. It is disputed that you believe that you have the right to address me from place, through violent communication and violation of the Rules of Procedure, and what is thought to be tolerated by any chairman. That's inadmissible. The reason why you haven't been warned is because I believe that we and the other 240 MPs fight to understand each other and when we communicate like that. Please control that kind of communication. National MP Zoran Krasic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13904	Since I'm not quite ready to take a big risk, I have to tell you that I went out and I'm calling for Article 226. Rules of Procedure, still valid. I ask of you, not personally by your name, but by your function, yours and the one who is the President of the National Assembly, because I believe that further notices are needed, and rich and fundamental explanations not only to me, but to all MPs who are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What's this about? Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic has received (I will hand it to you, Mrs. Komic, at the end of this original, and I could give it to you right away) in the Parliament letter. It was probably sent from Belgrade, the hero did not sign, but judging by the very modest fund of words and the use of various curses on the account of the Serboljub Zivanovic family, I believe that the National Assembly must react, as it must react to some of the warrants that have been glued these days and also sought, allegedly, an SRS MP. When you give these explanations or ask the authorities to act on this information, just to draw attention to the fact that there is a vocabulary in this anonymous letter that was used here a few days ago from one row, literally a man wrote what he said publicly, so they separated him all. If you can trace someone who sends messages from Chicago or Australia, you can probably trace who's the author of a threatening letter like this. Of course, respected viewers, you must understand this in the context of the hint of abolishing the transfer, the restrictions on the ability of MPs to inform the public about what is going on, in the context of some future agenda point where consent should be given to the AP Vojvodina statutes, in the context of the fact that this National Assembly did not adopt a resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, on Eulex, in the context of all that is happening in political life. Of course, the SRS and its MPs become subject to persecution, threats, both by those who officially deny something, and those who are anonymously threatening to slaughter the family, to kill. For the sake of the SRS MPs and all MPs in the National Assembly, I would ask the authorities to intervene, you to seek, the National Assembly to ask for this to be stopped. (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm sorry, I was right about the risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13905	The word has a People's MP... (Natasa Jovanovic: What does this look like, Mrs. Komic? Please, if you're finished and back in your seat... Member Natasu Jovanovic please do not disturb me with holding the session. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, February 11th, Serbia is on the verge of introducing an open political dictatorship. The constitution, the laws, the Rules of Procedure and the only will to be respected at this time is the will of the uncrupulous king of Serbia, Boris Tadic. As for the meeting of the Administrative Committee, it was due to be continued today, the 34th session started, and only the chairman of the Committee of Nenad Konstantinovic came from the DS, found there was no quorum and told us "Mothers, I will schedule a new session on Friday". In doing so, article 77 of Article 3 was drastically trampled. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that the debate is being held at the Committee's session regardless of the number of members present. So, the 34th session of the Administrative Board began yesterday and there was no need to determine the quorum. This isn't a new session, this is a follow-up session. The debate at the Management Board could be held. I was looking for a word. Nenad Konstantinovic didn't give me his word and so the session ended. It is now quite clear that Tomislav Nikolic is the child of Boris Tadic. I really ask the MPs of the SRS not to take Tomislav Nikolic into the mouth anymore. It is obvious that Boris Tadic is the only one responsible for the failure of the legal system in the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that there are no rules in Serbia anymore. Free of you from calling on European principles, to the EU, to the Council of Europe, Serbia is becoming one oriental despotia and the question is what will become of all of us. Just start arresting members of the SRS, open concentration camps, start shooting us, and then the story will be over. I think the warnings you make to the MPs are too mild. You know, King Milan shot radicals. At least he used some knightly means. You use such means to promise from day to day... Well, you're laughing. Everything's funny to you. You've led the country to ruin. The country is getting smaller and smaller year by year. In 2000, you received a complete SRJ; under the leadership of Boris Tadic, they took away Kosovo and Metohija, and now you are offering Vojvodina on the plate. Here's today's paper, you, sir, who laughs, in Novi Sad, which has been voted on by the Duke's statute, which you voted on from the DS, the written "Serbs on Willows", the big letter "U" in the circle of campus, where thousands of students are coming. You tell me it's an accident. You're laughing. Make sure it's not too late. I hope you have children, too. I hope you want your children to live too... (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. I'm done. I hope you want to live in Serbia too... (President: I ask the MPs to allow MP Aleksandr Martinovic to complete his presentation, regardless of time over time. ) Please, Mrs. Comic, it's not a dispute. As far as I'm concerned, you can shoot me. I've got little kids, they remember, even if I'm going to go into history. This has really gone too far. Say we will not return your mandates, we can do as we please. That's better than making fun of us and pulling us by our noses. You're putting the President of the Administrative Board in an awkward position... (President: Four minutes. )......................................................................................................... Man doesn't know what to say out of shame. At least don't embarrass him. Say it openly - we don't give you mandates, we'll take all 78, we'll arrest you, etc. That's better and fairer than what you do. You're embarrassing the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13907	Four minutes and thirty seconds. There is no breach of Article 77(3). Today's session is neither the first nor the last to last for several days and from members of the board, and that and each other, depending on when it will continue. For today, 15, whenever you're told there will be a sequel. I ask you, in an attempt to explain that there has been a violation of article 77, to comply with your obligations under the Rules of Procedure, not to use in dealing with other MPs unsuitable words. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic adds: "What are MPs laughing at? "The job of the chairman is to warn lawmakers of the inadmissibility of the discard and the inadmissibility of the interference of the MPs. During your exposure, and during the time-out, I warned the MPs to allow you to complete your presentation, regardless of what time you're going over in the Rules of Procedure, for three minutes, to give you an injury in the procedure you consider to have occurred. National MP Milos Aligrudic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13908	I point out the violation of Article 104(1), and you, as you have the custom, will, after my exposure, say whether or not there is any or no such injury, in your opinion. It says Article 104: "The MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. "This applies to everything, and also to representatives of the ruling coalition who, in my deep confidence, do not only today but also all these days, in recent weeks, respect the dignity of this home. Not only in the manner of conduct at the session itself, but also in the way in which the work of the National Assembly is organised, and the ruling coalition is responsible, the way the work of the National Assembly committee is organised, the way in which a different atmosphere in the National Assembly is contributed, which must certainly not be as it is now. The birds on the border know what the problem is and what is the essence of what should be discussed on the Administrative Committee when it comes to mandates. You of the ruling coalition have come up with the following tactics on how to complete and extend this matter – so that your chairman of the Administrative Committee, who, first of all, should not even be president, because the agreement at the meeting of the heads of parliament groups five or six months ago was that the position should be held by the opposition political party, so it is in one completely inappropriate way agreed and done... Now this same chair of your Management Board is scheduled to hold a session of the Administrative Committee on the subject of the mandate of the Members of Parliament, which should be decided on in relation to what is in the material for the session of the Administrative Committee. Then the chairman of the Administrative Board does not provide the quorum, which the ruling coalition must hold for a session of the Administrative Committee, as well as for each other session, as well as for this one here when that quorum is given in the morning of 84 or a quorum for the 126 vote. You're saying there's an MP group in parliament, and let's call it the SRS, I assume that's your message, which is something of direct personal interest, so that they choose to end it themselves. Is that a message? Is that what we warned you about when we said that the ruling coalition must take the responsibility to solve the problem that it produced for the good? That's why you have this session today, and that's why you were "forced" to go with this kind of terror when it comes to putting in place the extraordinary amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, completely out of order and the harmony that we agreed on when we formed the task force. In this way, contribute to the collapse and destruction of the atmosphere in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What does that mean? I have not attended a session of the Administrative Board today for these reasons, because it must be seen, that it is bare to the end who is responsible and who is behind this state and the extension of this agony in the National Assembly. It's you. Why do you think opposition MPs, of course, besides those of direct interest, would come to the papacy you've been making here for months and still extend it to give a quorum and solve the problem that you're obviously responsible for and called to solve. Here you go, gentlemen, do it. What does it mean to throw stones and make frogs on water? They started the Management Board yesterday or yesterday, so something continued, so there was no quorum, so they didn't give people... . (President: three minutes and thirty seconds. Thank you. I'm done. That's not right. You are the sole and exclusive culprits for this situation and for these prolonged debates in the National Assembly. When what's on the agenda comes, I'll tell you what I think about this nonsense of yours that you wrote about amending the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13909	People's MP, there's no breach of Article 104, nor is the content of your exposure an explanation of any breach of procedure. The only thing I can understand is that, in your opinion, it is a violation of the procedure that members of the ruling majority are obliged to give the quorum at meetings of the National Assembly or at committee meetings, which is incorrect and contrary to the members of the Rules of Procedure which define what a quorum is and what MPs are obliged to do when it comes to determining the quorum. So there's no breach of Article 104. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13910	Madam Chairman, I respect your right to give an explanation after pointing out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, of course, which stems from the principled provisions of Rule 27 of this Rules of Procedure where you take care to apply the Rules of Procedure, but my view is that this does not give you the right to misread what I was saying. I did not point out the violation of Article 104 because the ruling coalition did not give the quorum at the session of any committee of the National Assembly. My remark was that I interpreted the overall behaviour and functioning of the ruling coalition, not only at the board's session, today's session, but in general, when it comes to the way the National Assembly is run, they organise all the committee sessions, including this session where we are sitting, organised and thoughtlessly, to disrupt the dignity of this home and to produce such an atmosphere. Perhaps my interpretation is wrong, you draw my attention to it, but what you said is not what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13911	People's MP, no harm done to article 27. You can make an insight into the stenogram of your own presentation, which states that the ruling majority is obliged to provide quorum at the meetings of the Assembly, at committee sessions, which is incorrect. It's the only part of your argument that I could take as a violation of the procedure, and that's why I said it was incorrect and that it was an invitation to violate the members of the Rules of Procedure that defined the quorum in the National Assembly during the sittings or during the work-body work, including committees. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13912	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is necessary that I once again make it clear to you that there is an infringement of article 77 which speaks of how the committee's session is going. Item 3 is clear, I will read it; it says that the debate at the committee session is conducted regardless of the number of members present. It is true that there was no quorum to decide today, but there were enough members of the Committee to hold the debate. The session was launched yesterday at 9.30 p.m., and today the position of Article 3 77, which was valid, allowed the debate to begin. It doesn't matter when it ends, maybe next week, but it could have run today. Mr. Konstantinovic could not take the right to say that he would schedule a new session without the one that began never ending. This morning, I warned you of a fraud coming up. Now there's no Mrs. Hope Kolundji here to look me in the eye, because it was obvious that I had the right information and I saw through her intentions, i.e. Your intentions. In this country, unfortunately, there is no rule of law, here is the "holy" Boris, "holy" Manter, "great students", or "prepared" Hope Kolundzija or Gordana Komic, but justice, Constitution, law, law – no. As long as that's the case, there'll be chaos in this country. It's all bound to The Hague, of course. Don't think that's synchronised. The Hague tribunal, the Democratic Party, this new "Atlantic star", is all tied up – against whom? This action is against Serbia and against the Serbian people, to destroy everything that is national, everything that is Serbian, every institution. The parliament is now working, tomorrow there will be some other institution, and everything has already been initiated, including, unfortunately, the Serbian Orthodox Church. It's just that this is a shooting star. You won't be able to hold her in orbit for long. Sooner or later you'll have to face reality, sooner or later you'll have to make a decision. I just want to remind you that you have an illegal parliament that makes laws. Remember, such illegal messengers will decide for you the statute of the Duke. Think of yourself and think of who is who here. Does democracy mean the rule of the people, and thus through us, directly elected national representatives, the people rule, or will Manter rule here, or anyone else? I really don't know how insecure you are and I can't understand that at this historic moment, when we have to solve such important things for the state, you allow this kind of chaos in this tall home.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13913	There's no damage to article 77. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13914	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 98(2). Madam Chairman, I suggest you set a break in the work of the National Assembly and continue the work of the National Assembly after the session of the Administrative Committee, which would have decided on these famous mandates, because the Assembly obviously does not work, that we do not play here, for God's sake, a session of the National Assembly is held. It is obvious that she will not work on the agenda until that decision is taken at the session of the Administrative Committee. Really, please, this is a well-intentioned suggestion. Of course, when citizens look at a transmission like this, no one is interested in the work of such a parliament and of course it is not necessary to pass on such sessions at which we do not decide what the assembly is to decide. That, of course, is also related to the provision of Article 27, paragraph 1. So, I most certainly suggest that we end this agony, that we take a break, and that the Administrative Committee finally decide, it's absolutely no matter to me, one way or the other, but to definitely put an end to what's really turning into a theater of absurdity or, if you will, into a larbity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13915	I thank you, People's MP, for your suggestion, both to you and to everyone who, referring to Article 98, with a very constructive proposal, considers that consultations or interruptions would change this. Article 27 also includes sufficient information to allow the assessment of whether consultations with the heads of parliamentary groups or the determination of longer breaks allow for a different working atmosphere, i.e. a change in the strategy of one parliamentary group to only talk about infringements of the Rules of Procedure. Since there is no such assessment, we will proceed to 17.50 today, according to the previous agreement, until the direct transfer of the session of the Assembly is completed. I ask him to enter the stenogram that there will be a statement on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which was given at the appropriate hour, hour and minute by the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, and just before it was given to the MP Vladan Batic. The word has been made by the People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13916	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported for the violation of Article 104, but also for the desire to suggest that you act in accordance with Article 98(2), as Mr Batic said earlier. In the week preceding that break, when we chose delegations, when we chose RIK, the ruling majority succeeded in the intention to make this parliament, Madam Vice President, "mouse," consciously. You're doing the same thing this week, you're fully aware that there will be no functioning of parliament until you solve the problem. You tried to transfer responsibility to the Administrative Board, which you failed to hold, by giving a signal to someone from the ruling majority not to come to the Administrative Board. We of the LDP and this week have shown full readiness to work on what you're trying to do with this Rules of Procedure. We have submitted amendments with a desire to make this rules of procedure a much faster way towards what we want both of us. You allow us to do nothing the second day of this week, not discuss what's the subject. I am sure that there is a willingness for everyone to discuss a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure that the ruling majority has proposed, but they can only do so when they have a clean situation. They'll have a clean situation when the Administrative Board is held. You don't want to do that. I believe it's a strategy to make this Parliament a living mud. You count on having one strong weapon with that rules of procedure when it comes to the opposition. I've already had a chance to tell you this, I'm going to repeat now, I think that this weapon you've chosen will be boomerang and that it will come back against you, that it will be a blow that will be directed to the ruling majority who, because of this unwillingness, will take responsibility to solve any problem all the way to the opposition. We've been listening to the opposition obstruct for days. Well, what is this about the Administrative Committee, rather than obstruction of the ruling majority? You consciously bring this House to the point that anyone who looks and participates in the work can be free to be ashamed. There's no need for that. Take responsibility, solve the problem. That's what I said to those guys over there for a week, you can't keep your mouth shut and wait for something to go away. It won't work. Take responsibility, solve the problem, so we can deal with life issues that matter to the citizens. We're sinking like this. If that's your strategy, it's okay, and if it's not your strategy, then you're making a big mistake. I'm afraid the weapons you've chosen when you change your rules of procedure will be boomerang, will return against you and will strike you. Don't forget that the election will be at some point, and you can be the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13917	The People's Messenger, for this we have fought for, that some may be in power, and others may be in power. I thank you, too, for the constructive comment of Article 98(2). A Rules of Procedure that reminds the chairman that he can make a deal by holding a consultation. I repeat the response I have already given to a number of Members who, in such a way, want to improve the atmosphere of work in this session, deeming it inappropriate. On the basis of Article 27, the President and the chairman, they are obliged to make an assessment of whether they are meeting with the heads of the parliamentary groups or from fixing longer work breaks has an effect on changing the political strategy of MPs or one of the parliamentary groups that is legitimately and legally participating in the work of the Assembly. Well, since that's not the case, we'll be back at 1750 hours. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13918	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Comic, I appeal to Article 98 paragraph 2: "The President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly session in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion." Mrs. Comic, I think you heard the voice of reason. Here came the three presidents of the parliamentary groups who pointed to problems in the work of the National Assembly. Those problems obviously can't be solved. This work today and tomorrow's work will not bring any results, and I sincerely hope that you want some result, I hope that you do not aim to sit here, show the citizens of Serbia that you are exorcising your will or the way you think it will be politically beneficial to you and to someone else. I sincerely hope you're not driven by those motives. I sincerely hope you want to get to the possibility that the Assembly is working. I can't believe what's behind all of this; whether it's an attempt to introduce some kind of dictatorship, with the disabling of parliament through a restrictive Rules of Procedure, the ban on direct transfers, the elimination of RIK and the election of the state election commission, which says you're slowly introducing a dictatorship on the small door. You know, these are all the fluids of democracy from the 1990s: the Republic Election Commission, which was composed of representatives of political parties who met the conditions, to public transmissions, to the possibility of bringing problems to Serbia's citizens or the state of Serbia for the assembly speaker. You're all ruthless, brutally trampling. I ask you a question, who does it for you? Do you agree with this? Look with the Administrative Board, it's obvious it's just a game, it was obviously pre-planned not to come to a session of the Administrative Board, that this problem is not solved, and obviously someone wants it. It wasn't an accident, because someone got angry right now, but because someone has an interest in doing this. I honestly don't think you have that interest. We will not give up, we are not fighting for one thing that does not belong to us, it belongs to the SRS and the citizens of Serbia who voted for it and free you from the Administrative Committee. You know, they've taken away our mandates and our socialists, taken away some other parties, taken away from you now, but just remember, I guess somebody's gonna realize that this isn't good, first of all, for you, because those who did it... I didn't mean you when I said someone would understand, don't make you feel called after that, you see that you're wrong. Therefore, you realize that this kind of work will not do good to the state of Serbia, and it certainly will not do you any good either. You saw how all those who applied it to others went. Thank you and forgive me for this excess.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13919	I would like to thank you for the discussion, i.e. the presentation of another MP in a series that reminds us of the possibility of applying Article 98(2). I repeat, on the basis of Article 27, which allows for an assessment of whether or not this results, that, based on our evaluation, we will continue to work. People's MP Pai Momchilov wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13920	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I'm sorry I can't look you in the eye while I'm saying this, but it doesn't matter. I'm advertising Article 104. You, of course, won't agree and I know your answer, that he's not hurt, but look what happened after my exposure. I'm rereading the final position of article 100. Rules of Procedure: "If, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. "You haven't asked me at all if I agree with your explanation, whether I stay with myself or not. Then I get up, the camera (not from the camera's evil intent) shows how I intervene and I want to say that I'm not satisfied with your explanation and then you convey my speech and interpret my words, that it's rude behavior. Excuse me, please, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, you're not asking any MPs if they're satisfied and whether they're asking the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then you want to make me a hooligan. You know, I'm 62 years old, some people know me, some don't know, you're gonna have a hard time doing that. That's what you tried to do with Mr. Martinovic, a decent man, to make a hooligan. Madam Chairman, all representatives of all opposition parties have been telling you the same things for days. You are at the border to be declared the enemy of the opposition. I warn you of another fact: no other chairman does what you do. Are you aware of that? I understand you, you have accepted one task and you insist on it, but believe me, when it's true and justice we will endure far more. We don't give what you stole and we won't give in. All of your verbal exhibition, all of these structures, I don't want to go into them, and I don't want to deal with it, I don't want to analyze it, they'd be as interesting as it is for analysis, but you understand, I understand you, you have to defend it: SRS - 78 MPs. It's a lie. It's on your site. You're responsible for this. It's a lie. There's no 78 of us here. That part there's a different name. If you think that we are violating the Rules of Procedure when we are warning, no, we are just defending the reputation of this Parliament, we are pleading for the truth. Of course it's not true for you when that expert comes out and says Belgrade is the cheapest city in this part of Europe. Of course, when the health minister in "Politica" says -- it sounds amazing that some solutions from Serbian health care would now help the health system in America, and says -- the solidarity seen here will now be applied in America. Bismark's the author of it. You're bent into something that's impossible. The people will eventually judge you in the next election. Please, don't make us any hooligans, no rude people, stick to the Rules of Procedure. Explain to me how I should say - I'm not happy with your explanation and I'm asking for a vote, except to get up here. There's a lot of speakers behind me. If I report back to the Rules of Procedure, it'll be untimely. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13921	Four minutes. People's MP, there's no breach of article 104. The content of your presentation did not explain the breach of the procedure, but you misused the way the Rules of Procedure which obliges us to treat each other. In any case, I can't make you a hooligan. Your will was to stand up and communicate rudely with me from the bench, not my will. Please, in an attempt to explain that you are right when it comes to infringement procedures, take care of the dictionary used. When it comes to your request for me to ask whether you are satisfied with the explanation, at the request and intervention of the MPs of your parliamentary group, it has ceased to be a practice; it has been a requirement that a non-satisfactor who is not satisfied has the right to have his word again in the Rules of Procedure and to say that he is not satisfied, precisely so as to avoid communication, if the MP does not already say so himself – regardless of the explanation, I want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting. You can see for yourself, given the stenograms of the previous sessions. I am very happy to accept suggestions for the management and application of the Rules of Procedure, as I have accepted suggestions when giving the word, as I have accepted and suggestions for the MP to get the word and say – I want the Assembly to declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure. People's MP Miodrag Krstin wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1). Milorad, I'm sorry if I said Miodrag, it was unconscious. People's MP Milorad Krstin, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13922	I know, Vice President, that you like me... Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, by art. 104, 225, 226, Madam Chairman, you decide whether or not I've called. As an MP for the SRS Group, I am a member of the Committee on Agriculture; since the chairman of the Assembly is now gone, and you are the chairman, I ask you, who has forbidden the MP, the member of the Committee, Milorad Krstin to attend the Committee's session within the next 20 days? I received notice from the officials and the official that I had no right to attend, nor was I invited to that phantom session that was to be held in Beocino, so it was delayed because of snow from 5 cm in Frusch Mountain. Madam Chairman, Mrs. Komic, I kindly ask that as a member of the People's Parliament and a member of the Committee who is forbidden to attend the Committee, answer why Milorad Krstin, a member of the Committee, has no right to attend the Committee on Agriculture on several occasions as a member of this high house? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13923	At committee meetings and working bodies of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly at meetings of the National Assembly. I don't know the previous events, until the information that you've provided at the pay phone says you've been told a 20-day measure. This is the measure from the Rules of Procedure, which is spoken after the first warning, and other warnings, the measures of taking away words. It shall apply to the Chair during the meeting of the Assembly, and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as well as to the meetings of the National Assembly, shall apply to the working bodies. Therefore, the provisions of the Rules of Procedures applicable during the sitting may also apply at committee meetings. That is clear in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I stress, I don't know that this is what preceded your claim that you can't attend the board's session, I'm just quoting the Rules of Procedure to answer your question as to how someone gets away from the session for 20 days. By giving him measures: first warning, second warning, confiscation of words, and a distance from a session of 20 days. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. He's not there. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13924	"Just because I'm paranoid doesn't mean they don't work on my head," famous politician Henry Kissinger once said. Although I am reluctant to accept these wetlands of American implementation, this is indeed good and very much true for all of us Serbian citizens. I'm reporting under Article 226 and I'm looking for more information needed for my work, but, I'm afraid, for both the mental health of Serbian citizens and the voters I represent. First, what kind of emergency session is this, and why would the amendment of the four points of the Rules of Procedure be more important than, say, a session dedicated to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija? After nine months, I guess the "pregnant" Assembly could give birth to at least one sound decision, and that's to see what's actually going on with those who are our citizens, and they don't have basic human rights, the right to life and the right to free movement. If we continue to defend Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, then by writing letters in a very harsh tone, as does a person in the role of president, and by declaring any action for the Serbian diplomatic triumph, the Serbs from the southern province are free to say – in addition to friends like this, we do not need enemies. On 23 January, the president of our assembly received a letter from the Community Assembly of Kosovo and Metohija that on February 17th, on the anniversary of the so-called self-proclaim. The Republic of Kosovo, a joint session of the Serbian Parliament and the Assembly of the Serb Municipalitys in Kosovo, Mitrovica, will be held. This was also the topic of today's session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee. Since MPs of the ruling coalition claimed that holding a joint session was against the constitution, I am not an expert on the Constitution, so I don't know, perhaps it is true, it was concluded that the MPs of the Serbian Parliament attended the meeting of the Community Assembly on February 17th, right at noon in Zvecan. It's a good thing we fought for it, too, but it's really tragic to travel as some singing or cultural-art society that came to visit fellow Americans on the reservation. It's illegal to hold a joint session, but it's not against making a state in the country, and it seems, not just one. It seems to me that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the tendency to abolish the public transmissions of you who are ruling, and who are only present here in the clues, I suppose again in the Bodrums, you wanted to hide from the public that you let Kosovo go, and now you're about to launch Vojvodina. On that behalf, is it against the constitution to negotiate with a terrorist calling on Serbia to recognise independent Kosovo and announce the creation of an embassy? Why wasn't that Thaci arrested, because from the kind answer of Police Minister Ivica Dacic, who I received on my parliamentary question... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... I'm finishing up, I think it's very important that I continue for a few more seconds, whether the red Interpol warrant is still in effect, Minister Dacic says the checks carried out have been found to be in effect by the red Interpol search party named Thaci Hashim and Haradinaj Ramush. On 18 February last year, the interior ministry filed criminal charges against Thaci, Sejdiu and Krasniqi. Although the police minister is not here, I know for a fact that he sees and hears everything, so I ask him to inform the president of Serbia that he is not negotiating with terrorists. Even that shy Bush didn't negotiate with Bin Laden.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13925	The word is from the vice-president of the National Assembly, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13926	Mr. Vice President Novakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was injured by Article 31(1). The Rules of Procedure, which discusses the role of the Vice President of the National Assembly, Articles 77, 78 and 79 concerning the work of the Committee, or the working bodies of the National Assembly. In fact, Article 31(1) says that the vice-presidents of the National Assembly are helping the president, or the chairman. I tried, as I do when you're in the chair, Mr. Novakovic... Today you told me, of course, confused about the whole situation where the National Assembly found that you, thank God, were not then, nor are you now a member of the Administrative Committee. I reminded you of the time when your colleague Lalić Vesna (I am correct, she had another last name) and my colleague, Čonjagić (and I apologize to him for having made a mistake this morning), as well as Ksenija Milivojevic and Goran Paunović, the party G 17, on the basis of their blank resignations, replaced the new MPs. I can't remember the name of those new ones that came. When the afternoon session began, I tried to help Mrs. Comic work from the post of vice president. My role is not the role of icebana, as my colleague Judita Popovic has repeatedly said, but that I also take care of order in the hall during the National Assembly session. For the fourth time, Zoran Krasic was behind the pay phone, and the citizen Nikolic was passing through and saying ugly words to him. Just because the head of our parliamentary group, Mr. Todorovic, Miss Elena or Mrs. Pop-Lazic, couldn't hear it at that time doesn't mean we didn't hear it. No address is allowed during his presentation. Zoran Krasic turned around and said to you, "Why is this happening?" That is, he addressed all of us at the chair table. Mrs. Comic pretends not to see it. As it is said not to see what was on the RTS video; now you have it on you tube, "Very nice some man," it is a clip that can look at all of Serbia. On the same day, Mr Milivojevic, who was delighted to see that he was a nice man in the Serbian Parliament who threatens and curses the MPs. What happened at the board meeting? There was one smoother, nicer variant. Mr. Konstantinovic, the dresser, with all the cuffs, dressed, came and said "Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, journalists" and found there was no quorum to hold the session. The quorum was not necessary, Mr. Novakovic, to hold that session where we should have continued the one that started yesterday, 30th. I'm asking you, have you been notified where the board members from your group, G 17 plus? Didn't you have a principled position, as you had in the case of Čonjagic, Lalićka, Milivojevićka and Paunovic, that law and Rules of Procedure should be applied, i.e. Article 102(2). The Constitution, that resignations should be activated for those to whom the mandates belong? As long as the Serbian Radical Party does not have 78 mandates in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, won on the electoral list of SRS - Dr Vojislav Seselj, you can also change the Rules of Procedure, and express the measures and do whatever you want, we will endure until the end. The electoral will of the citizens cannot be destroyed. We've given you six months to solve this, you're not capable. Serbia's parliament will only work with 78 Serbian radicals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13927	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since before me there was a "citizen" behind this pay phone, I have to answer. So, I really saw Mr. Krasic at the pay phone on the way in. He's an honest man, he won't lie. I was walking past him, and I asked him if maybe it was RIK. Why is it an insult to Mr. Krasic or to the "citizen" who heard it, I don't know. As for my swearings, about every fifty swearings of Srboljub Zivanovic I answer once. The whole assembly is witnessing that it's the measure of my swearing in this room. You don't mind when I get 50 swearing or insulting by Srboljub Zivanovic, and it bothers you when I answer him once. I now declare, every 50th time I answer Srboljub Zivanovic; it is about one hour a afternoon every day, he already reaches the figure of 50. But you're in your world, you're looking at what others are doing, you don't see what you're doing and what's happening around you. I warn you, if by question I disturbed Mr. Krasic as he spoke, I asked him for information, what you're doing now with new shoes... Some of you have earned this through family members who are in the republican authorities; some of you through family members who are in municipal councils; some of you, through family members who have become wealthy by gaining property in your name, so that it will not be yours; some of you, through members of the council who don't work in that municipality at all, are simply receiving salaries in municipalities where they worked in power. Please don't ruin those shoes, there are people who don't have shoes. If you don't want to wear new shoes, so that someone doesn't call you where you get that money to buy it, give the people new shoes, and you wear the old shoes, to prove that you, as ambassadors, really don't have enough means to live. Once again, to be clear, the new Constitution has entrusted each of you with the mandate of the Messenger of the people. A few days ago, you were warned by the rapporteur of the Council of Europe, he was baffled and said – there are still political parties who consider themselves to be the owners of the mandate of MPs. Don't talk about things from past times or things that can't be applied. As long as I want to be in this congregation or as long as I'm alive, I'm going to be a MP. It's not up to the SRS, it's up to me personally. Like the party does not depend on whether any of you will be an MP. If they activate those resignations they stole from my cabinet when they broke it, I will vote against you being in debt, and you, Mr. Todorovic, and the "citizen" and everyone else. Thank you. (All the time the speech of Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13929	The curses are certainly not a democratic tool and it is inappropriate in the building, the institution where we are presently. The word is from Miss Natasa Jovanovic, vice president of the Republic Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13930	Mr. Novakovic, the truth works for both Serbian citizens and fellow MPs who have not had the opportunity to see the report of the monitoring committee and the mentioned Mr. Andreas Gross, I just have to say what really happened. Mr Gross was going to meet in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with an informal, phantom group and phantom, a certain citizen, Nikolic, at that time, and it was in his protocol, but after my explanation and announcement of the results, which Mr Gross in this report confirmed in English and determined that the SRS had won 78 terms of office... This report has almost 50 pages. On page 6 of this report, the rapporteur of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe can only determine what citizens have sovereignly decided by choice, which is that the SRS-Dr Vojislav Seselj list won 78 mandates. Those who want to be smart, to have their own party, so they think they can, like, go into the future, and now they need to get ahead of themselves, they need to read something, they need to know something about what they're saying and how those who are following what's going on in Serbia are reporting. I personally and the Serbian Radical Party do not care about Gross's opinion at all. First of all, because of the fact that the gentleman mentioned did not warn himself and did not branch out, he asked to change the Constitution, which is also at the point of his 13th report, because he believes it is his right as a member of the monitoring committee, as a man who comes from a country where the Constitution makes it different, that we should establish a majority electoral system, with criticism that our Constitution is such and even not brought in by a large number of votes, which is not true at all. I explained to him that it was brought to the widest possible consensus, because only LDP and LSV did not vote for the Mitrovica Constitution. I still explained to him, since he said the meeting he had had was canceled, he shouldn't have made an appointment like that. If he wanted to meet with a citizen in Serbia, he could see how farmers live, how pensioners live, how the unemployed live, because the situation is getting worse every day. So we have to use only arguments here. This "climate of crutches", which Mr Todorovic so authentically called, has now become not only sympathetic to our public, but it is indeed true, but must know something about how things stand and how MPs are elected and how they will fly from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If the Administrative Board does not do so, it will do so by the competent state authorities, but where it comes after a court call, do not come into the 2,000-euro suits and shoes of 700-800 euros, and you come from a city where the people do not have bread to eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13931	Half a minute more. The word has been issued by the MP, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as head of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13932	First of all, because of Juttub to show me a 700-euro shoe. (The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic took out his shoe. Show yours. And let this "mau-mau" show his shoes. It is indisputable that the Serbian Radical Party has won 78 seats with me. It is undeniable, but it is disputed whether you can now enjoy 78 terms of office when I am no longer with you. You can't. One of my terms is not yours, it's mine, and it's good in that report. But when Andreas Gross suits you, you meet him, when you don't fit what he wrote, you don't quote it. When you're comfortable with the deal with Tadic, let him have the budget, and when he doesn't meet the parts of the deal, you find it here first, because you can't hide anything, and then you block the work of the National Assembly. So it's all clear. This constitution finally freed the MPs not to slave to political parties because they were not elected by the parties, but by the people, directly in the elections. I'm sorry, please don't throw it at me, you'll confuse me, you know I'm easily confused. Therefore, the mandate of a MP who does not wish to be in the SRS, until the law regulates the constitutional provision, cannot be yours. It belongs to the MP, and if he wants to, and this is controversial even in the European legislation that we have committed to the Constitution, he can entrust the mandate to the political party. Those from Europe, whose traditions we have tied ourselves to by the Constitution, say - it must not be made possible by political foreigners either. So, even that part of the Constitution they have a grudge against is the part where the MP is free to trust the mandate, even that must not be foreseen by the Constitution. And you're talking here, justifying that the Assembly won't work, threatening that the Assembly won't work unless they give you your mandates back. Let's go to the election. Here, if you wanted to go to the elections, you'd let Belgrade discuss the elections in Zemun, now you're even stronger, you'll win a lot of council seats. There live members of the RIK and their family, where activists from Belgrade work, all of them are on the offensive in the Zemun municipality, the municipality will flourish, you will win many votes. Just to explain this terminology, I've confused some MPs: therefore, the citizen is a married woman, and the "citizen" is single. Thank you. (All the time the speech of Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic the MPs of the SRS are banging on the bench. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13933	The word has Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13934	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will attach my presentation to Article 104 - the dignity of the National Assembly. I won't take a leak, I won't take my clothes off. Each of Serbia's citizens can draw their own conclusions about what any of us are doing and how they do it. The state of Serbia is a small country where everything is learned, and there is an old one, "The country has sworn to keep all secrets known," and so do we, the MPs, as much as we have justified ourselves to be like this or like this, can be seen in the end who is who and who does what. Tell me, please, you who are sitting here, Serbian citizens are watching us, whether this gentleman who was behind this pay phone before me is too much, anything politically important, with some political weight, has said since he formed that new party. Did he say what he thought about Eulex, did he say what he thought about Vojvodina, did he talk about any problem in the state of Serbia, that he heard from some citizen somewhere on the street, and he couldn't hear it, because he wasn't walking free on the street and there's nothing to tell him? That's his problem, and I think the public of Serbia sees it well. As for everything he resented to the Serbian Radical Party, he managed the party until it was thrown out of it. He knew all that when he was who he was. Then why didn't he talk about these problems? Where his brother-in-law was busy, let him say so. Who did he beg to hire his brother-in-law? Where were his sister-in-laws employed? Tell him where they were getting the pay, if he's so honest. Here, he ran away, he can't listen to what I tell him, because he knows very well that I know him well. That's the problem. But he doesn't interest me personally as a man. I'm interested in him being tied up with Manter, Tadic and working alongside The Hague tribunal against Vojislav Seselj and the SRS, the only one left here national to fight for the interests of the Serb people. Why is it seven hours before the prosecution's witness hearing is completed, just as important things happen in Serbia, when Vojislav Seselj's ratings are huge, when his transfers from The Hague are seen ten times more than they are seen from the Assembly? It is impossible to wait for Vojislav Seselj in Serbia. This man cannot look at Vojislav Seselj here and together with Tadic is doing everything in his power to keep him there as long as possible, and here he complicates the political situation in the country in order to cook as much here as possible. Who's in the interest of who? If we don't solve problems here, we'll solve them on the street. Would you like the street to wait for us? Do I need to go out on the street? Will someone please meet us there with a stick? Will someone ask us, "What are we going to live on?" "What are we going to eat", "what are we going to feed our children, how to train them, how to dress them?" What is essential to our country? Is anyone interested in what's going on in Vojvodina? I've been to Backo Topoli, people are scared, they take what's done there seriously, and you're combing. "The village burns, the grandmother combs." Nicole probably told Rosca who she needed to tie herself up so she could continue with politics to deal with.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13935	The word is Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice, under Article 226, from the Minister of the Interior of the Ivica Dacic. I recently asked the MUP and BIA if they had any knowledge of the alleged assassinations of Tomislav Nikolic and any involvement of the SRS and Vojislav Seselj in alleged assassinations. You are all well aware that Tomislav Nikolic, as an accomplice to The Hague tribunal, is leading the hunt against Vojislav Seselj and is giving incredible lies about the alleged assassinations that Vojislav Seselj of The Hague tribunal is doing in Serbia. He claimed that these findings had both M.O.P. and B.I.A. Now I'm going to show you evidence that Tomislav Nikolic is ready to, bringing out morbid inventions, a no-hide attack on a man who is not in a position to deny these accusations, and then Serbian citizens will decide whether or not to trust such a man at all. Namely, I got a request from the BIA, and I'll quote what it says in that notice. "The security-intelligence agency of the Republic of Serbia does not have operational knowledge and data on the possible threat to the personal security of Mr Tomislav Nikolic, MP at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the SNS." I also asked Interior Minister Ivica Dacic for information, as Nikolic openly said in one of the interviews that he "had given information to Dacic in which a house in Belgrade could be found with explosives and weapons without Dacic having any knowledge of it". I have asked for Tomislav Nikolic to be examined and to establish the origin of his knowledge of houses in Belgrade where explosives and weapons can be found, therefore, to establish the ties of Tomislav Nikolic with criminals. How can Nikolic know which houses have explosives and weapons, and the police have no knowledge of it? Either he stayed in those houses hanging out with criminals or the criminals transferred that information. So, the information on this request has not yet been received, has not been delivered to me, and now I am again seeking notification of the connection between Tomislav Nikolic and the criminals.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13937	Mr. Vladan Batic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13938	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with Article 98(2), I repeat the proposal to take a break until the end of the session of the Administrative Committee, as nothing will obviously and cannot be changed until then. Mrs. Comic said that, according to estimates, I don't know which one I don't know whose, should continue the work. I met Mr. Konstantinovic, and I asked him why no board meeting was scheduled for tomorrow. Mr. Konstantinovic said that there is tomorrow Olli Rehn and that many of the heads of parliament will have contacts with him and Mr. Ljoveras and that there are no conditions for holding a session of the Administrative Committee. Since Olli Rehn and EU officials are here tomorrow, I would like to propose and ask those who will talk to them to point out a detail that is quite devastating for Serbia. As you know, Kosovo security forces such as, practically, the Kosovo Army and Metohija were formed. President Boris Tadic and Mr Jeremic have filed protests in both the UN and NATO. There is something else that is a slap for all Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and all Serbs in general: Kosovo Security Force Commander Suleiman Selimi, called Sultan. I had the opportunity, as justice minister, to obtain in 2001 a request from The Hague tribunal asking for data for 15 KLA leaders and besides Thaci, Ceku, Haradinaj, there was the name of Sulejman Selimi, as a convicted war criminal, commander of an operating zone based in Lipovac. Suleiman Selimi was charged with numerous acts of terrorism and was issued an APB in 1999. I would ask EU officials to draw attention to this detail tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13939	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Dr. Pai Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to members 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. My question is to the president of the National Assembly. I repeat this question that I have asked earlier and that is – who is responsible for spreading untrue information by misusing the information system of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly? I've shown a list that shows the SRS has 78 members in the list of parties. This isn't true, this is false. This can't stand, this has got to change. I'm asking for a written reply from the president of the Assembly who's responsible for spreading the truth. We, however, heard a story and an explanation in the address of Mr Nikolic. What did Mr. Nikolic try to explain to us? Here, to make it simple: the SRS football team enters the first league, plays and wins second place, and there's a riot on the team. A group of players decide to change the captain, change the coach and change the game system, not to play offensively but defensively. They're looking for a soccer club assembly. The football club assembly does not meet, the board of directors decides that there is no need for such radical changes. What do these dissatisfactions do? They're leaving the SRS football team, and leaving the team is starting a new team, let's say it's called SNS, and now they're saying -- we won the UEFA Cup, we were second, we participate in the UEFA Cup. You can't go to UEFA, you're not the SRS, you're not who you were anymore, you're something else. Now, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, who is here to show us his shoes... I get circumstances, I have nine-year-old shoes, someone can look and see; I have better and more expensive, of course, but I don't think that's the level for this assembly. You see, Mr Tomislav Nikolic really has four big problems. I highly appreciated Mr Nikolic and considered him one of the leading politicians on the Serbian scene. Faustian problem - sell your soul to the devil; you know who the devil is. Evolution problem – when you put yourself in the service of interest contrary to those you served before, then your term of life quickly expires. You can be used once. The third problem – the messiah coming to Serbia's political scene, which will replace Mr Nikolic with force or soap, and you know his name. The fourth problem – the problem of heights, I don't know if today when I look at Mr Tomislav Nikolic behind this pay phone I see a Chetnik duke or I see someone else entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13941	Let's at least recap: now there's Mrs. Elena Christmas-Talian, then after her, Mr. Milorad Krstin, then after him Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic, then Mrs. Gordana, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I request a notice under Article 226 of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, and what I'm about to expose is connected to the case of Stanko Subotic Canet. You know that Stanko Subotić cane is charged before our authorities that he is the organizer of a criminal group that, in the 1990s, by smuggling cigarettes has damaged our country by 28m euros. Subotic is on the run because he avoids pleading guilty to our judicial authorities. Everyone knows that the SRS always has reliable information. According to us, Aleksandar Vukic, who is in close contact with Stanko Sutotic Canet, promised that through Miki Rakic, chief of cabinet Boris Tadic, he would secure Stanko Sumotic that he could return without problems to Belgrade and defend himself from freedom. I will remind you that we have already brought out a common truth in public, which is that Aleksandar Vukic often met with Stanko Subotic Canet, that he received a million euros from him and that one of the meetings was also in Moscow. We now have reliable knowledge that Vucic recently met in Montenegro with Sutotic and that, believe it or not, he was wearing crumbs; it seems that Mr. Subotić is a fan of the beads. We do not have reliable information on whether they are ordinary or tobacco knots, but in any case, Vukic promised to solve his problems in Belgrade, and for this service, Vukic will receive a huge cash prize from Stanko Subotic. It is the same Alexander Vukic, who, using cheap demagogy, I keep saying, "We only want to deal with problems in Serbia and how to help our citizens." It is obvious that Vukic deals only with the problems of controversial businessmen and those pursued by our judicial authorities. Another indication that Vucica's Serbian citizens are not interested in at all is the fact that he was not at all interested in the fate of Invej workers, whose composition consists of several factories, owned by Predrag Rankovic Peconi, otherwise an excellent friend of Aleksandr Vukic. So Vucica was not shaken at all that his friend had fired thousands of workers over the past three years, and that, according to the press, was unjustly done. Finally, I ask the Republic Public Prosecutor's notice, because the information I have presented must be interesting to the public prosecutor's office and it would be necessary to examine whether there is a basis for criminal responsibility for Alexander Vukic as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13943	Thank you. According to all the information you have, I'm afraid the DA is nowhere near as informed as you are, so we'll hear from him when we forward that question. We continue, the word has the People's Messenger Mr. Petar Jojic, then Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13944	Mr. Vice President and Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to request a notice in the light of the provisions of the article. 225 and 226, because I got a letter from a company employee, and that's an ex-Plantex from the Mountainyard. The company hired about 800 workers, mostly women, by 2005, when it went bankrupt for the second time. In 2006, according to the workers, it was bought by "Modus" Pancevo, "Ledženda" Subotica and another owner who gave up, but then remained "Ledgend" and he allegedly received from the province's fund a grant of about 500,000 euros, and reportedly did not return it, provided he hired 300 workers, and hired about 30 of them, who worked before the end of last year and who were fired and remained on the street. The "Planima" slaughterhouse, also from the Plandišta, was a large slaughter of livestock, was a production and packing of broilers and was recognised in the country and abroad. This company was sold to a company called Unity; there are about 700 hectares of land in the Great Greda. It is said to have been sold to Nicovic. So I'm asking a question and I'm asking for an answer as to how did this sale of Plantex and this company in the Great Greda and the large areas of agricultural land happen? Namely, to remind you of just one more thing, the chairman, that a group of workers relying on a statement by the President of the Republic that they must defend their jobs – we address you in accordance with your words, Mr Tadic, that the most important thing or objective in 2009 is to preserve jobs and because of the uncertain fate of 115 workers who were employed in the "Family Plans" of the Plane. Mr. Vice President, thank you, you are constructive and you know how to conduct a session. Once again, I thank you for being this professional and professional. Parliament is looking for a chairperson like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13945	Thank you. Don't praise me or shame me, best of all. I'm just the chairman. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13946	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since my proposal to take a break has not already been accepted, then I will comply with the provisions of the article. 225th and 226th, and I'm going to request some notices. Welcoming the police action, I ask the interior minister what is being done and whether anything has been done to examine the crime business of the company "Protent" from Obrenovac, to see what the real purpose is and the purpose of functioning and the existence of the company, to see the company's staff with the Obrenovac municipality, to examine everything. That's one detail. The second detail concerns the Minister of Ecology and Spatial Planning, concerning the Republic and City Construction Inspectorates. Do they have any idea about the urban genocide in Obrenovac, that they are again connected to the municipal authorities of individuals who are allegedly investors, came from whatever hammers, honor of exceptions? They make objects that are a combination of prisons, madhouses and barracks, which are aesthetically nothing like anything, etc. That aside, is there a static budget for these facilities? I say, if it did happen, God forbid, an earthquake of two degrees Mercali scales, not those cataclysmically seven-eight degrees, it would all collapse like a map tower. These foreign investors are putting blocks in the ground. Only as many squares as possible, in connection with local authorities responsible for urbanism. It doesn't look like anything. When nearly altering Belgrade's statutes, the authorities for larger facilities moved to Belgrade in a few days, they issued licenses for 100,000 square meters. I'm just asking for all of this to be checked, it's such a mockery that it's really a disaster. Urban objects are not short-term. Let us see who has allowed these people a technical reception, who has issued useful permits and whether most (repeat, honor to a few who do so properly) of these objects meet the basic conditions: both urban and technical and security. I'm responsibly saying it's not coming true. It's these life, little things that life means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13947	Thank you. The word has the head of the SRS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Seselj, Mr Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13948	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I'm reporting under Article 226 and Article 27. Mr. Chairman, I think you might be able to help with this case. Today, a session of the Belgrade City Assembly is being held. I guess a lot of people know that. There's a lot of points on the agenda. One of those points is the issue of health crime. You remember the problems of four health homes in Belgrade and the charges by Belgrade City Health Secretary Dragana Jovanovic, who accused the directors of the four health homes of using their position roughly during the purchase of equipment and other inventory and that they broke the law because they most likely spent huge funds and paid for something that was not worth it. Instead of today's agenda point being the usual procedure, it was proposed by the "yellow company" that this goes according to a shortened procedure, in order to prevent Ms Dragana Jovanovic from speaking and that all explanations and explanations related to this huge robbery in Belgrade's health homes. Although she insisted on explaining to city councils, normal and citizens of Belgrade, all that was happening, a session of the Belgrade City Assembly was interrupted. They probably tried to convince her to give it up. I sincerely hope that the representatives of LDP Cedomir Jovanovic will not allow Dragan Jovanovic, as well as the representatives of the SRS, because we have demanded, among other things, and that it will allow Dragana Jovanovic to announce to the public all the facts concerning this huge robbery in these four homes of health. Among other things, you know that all four directors had to put pressure on the public to resign. This is what I'm telling you to fully connect you to understand what this is about and how the Democratic Party is trying to solve the problem. It does not try in a way that is only possible – to investigate, that those who are responsible for it, to do the right work, and that those who, in accordance with the law, deserve certain penalties. No, they're acting on a well-established principle, trying to hide it right now, counting on a new affair coming to bury that old one, as it happens. This is a problem that has been following us continuously for almost nine years and not only will it not lead to a solution, but it will also create problems for both the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. I call on members of the Democratic Party to realize that, first of all, it is not in their interest. It's politically appropriate for us because we can present these facts, criticise you, etc., but you have to solve it. If you are unable to solve it, you cannot solve it, we can only conclude that someone extremely powerful is preventing you from solving it. I'm sure the largest number of people from the Democratic Party, without any compromise, would have decided to end all these problems, I'm sure of it, but then who's the one that's stopping it? That's what you should ask yourself. Why are you hiding a crime like this? Who's in the interest of who? Whether you're protecting criminals or protecting some in your ranks that have committed crime, there's no other explanation. You may have some other explanation, but tell who's in the interest that the citizens of Belgrade don't know how the health care money was stolen for these four homes of health. Whose health directors are these? Why are you doing this? Why do you have to bear political responsibility? You're the most responsible. All that is happening in the Assembly is closely linked to all these events, now with this in the Assembly of Belgrade, so the mandates of the SRS, so the state electoral commission, so the public transfers of the Serbian Parliaments – behind it is only one goal: to prevent the truth from coming out and to deal with crime and corruption. While this government, headed by Boris Tadic, Serbia cannot move forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13949	Mr. Milorad Krstin has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13950	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, about 40 minutes ago, I came out here and asked if someone could answer me as far as possible, this is my fourth term, I haven't heard it yet, that someone should be away from the board, whether agriculture, finance, administrative. Is it possible for someone to give him a reminder, one, the other, to take away the word and propose a departure from the board's session, without the MP, a member of the board, hearing it? Is it possible that someone so, and especially if it is a citizen, that I am to myself for the right, and how I managed to hear the answer or some half answer from Mrs. Comic who then chaired... And now, Mr. Novakovic, I ask you again how it is possible for a board member to be banned from coming to the Committee on Agriculture when I had not heard from him before, at least, given one warning, another warning, took his word and removed him from the board? I came out here yesterday, and I explained, on the basis of an answer from the Minister of Agriculture, to a question I had written on January 14, 2009; I was heard and released by the President then, the chairman. The second time I went out, she said I couldn't ask a parliamentary question, but I explained it because it was a different question and I came down from the pay phone to her insistence. If I had been warned then and there, wouldn't you have allowed yourself tomorrow to have someone or another MP take 32,000 and take someone's children so they could get school, because 32,000 to someone and to someone else's children will mean a lot to them. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Novakovic, I ask you to give me an answer in writing why, how, for which reason, I have no right to attend the Committee on Agriculture and who is who has appointed these criminal measures for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13951	Thank you. What's in my jurisdiction, I can only give you a direct answer to your question tomorrow when I see if it's on that board... On which you are supposed to be, and you have not heard, all these punishments, subsequently, as you have numbered them, the first, second reminder, as the Rules of Procedure foresees, because, on the basis of Article 113, it is applied adequately to the work of the board. So, if that's the case, then the last one is in a series of distances up to 20 days, but I can't believe anyone can give any kind of warning, and that whoever's being referred to it has no idea. So, there's something wrong with it. I'll check that out, and in the morning, I'll give you a written or oral notice, however you like. The word has Mr Dragan Todorovic as head of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13952	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. 110rd and 113rd regarding this data Mr. Milorad Krstin provided. Mr. Novakovic, you are a lawyer and you have no problem interpreting the Rules of Procedure in a way that is only possible to interpret. Whenever a penalty is imposed, especially a fine, a decision shall be taken by the Administrative Board. I don't doubt that for you it's simple, it's very simple for every sane man, but there are people who, unfortunately, don't have such opportunities, and they are in places that can judge and depend on their decision on the fate of some people. It's very simple, you don't need some special investigation measures to apply right now, you need to get a conclusion from the Administrative Committee where it's going to be very easy to say – because of that, and therefore, at the Committee's session... I guess that's where the stenographic notes are headed, we're not going to listen here, he said this one, but based on the facts, and the only facts they can indicate or prove are the stenographic notes and based on these stenographic notes, the decision should be made by the Administrative Board. About punishment, it is known: one warning, another warning, if a measure of distance is given - 32,000 and a ban on presence for the next 20 days. But all of this, Mr. Novakovic, can only be based on the written decision of the Administrative Board. Imagine someone showing up and saying you're five years in prison. It's okay, it's no problem, but give us the court's decision, to be judicial, etc. That's right here. Mr. Novakovic, obviously something is happening in this assembly that is getting out of control. Obviously, someone wants to get to the excess. For what? If any MP has done a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he has come to the situation that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he is not disputed, but cannot depend on someone's decision, on someone's will to charge himself and to punish himself automatically, without being able to have a black on white to do so. I guess that's the most important thing for every MP; for every man, not just for an apostle. How is it even possible to make such a decision without ambushing it, that it was not by the Administrative Board, Mr. Novakovic? Come on, you tell me. (President: Not possible. How, then, can someone ban Milorad Kristin from attending sessions automatically? How is that possible? Someone told the clerks, the clerk told her grandmother, and she aunted, and the aunt passed it on to another clerk. Explain to me what paths these are in this assembly, how is that possible, Mr. Novakovic? (President: Time.) I see it's time. I ask very simple questions, in no way do I want to put you in an awkward situation. How is it possible that this is how it works in the congregation: that an officer should appear and tell the MP - you are forbidden to attend for 20 days? Is that normal? Imagine waiting for you at the security door and saying you're banned from the O.R. Is it necessary for someone physically to be accounted for because there is no decision of the Administrative Board, there is nothing? You see what you're leading to. (President: We understand, a minute and a half is already running. I know. I don't doubt it. What am I talking about? I did, but just so you understand, we're not doing this because we're pushing out some of our own chefs. We tried, in a way that was appropriate, we told the secretary to deliver it to us, because it was his obligation. Until this moment, it wasn't done. It wasn't done the way the Rules of Procedure predicted. It's obvious that it's someone's will, abuse, and we have to get to who used it this way. (President: Two minutes. Thank you, excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13953	Of course you need to clear up and come up with an answer to all those three questions. That's exactly what I said, that I'll make every effort to give you all these answers by tomorrow morning; if there are, in writing, if they don't exist, let's see where these causes are. On the other hand, I am absolutely certain that no one cares about excesses in this congregation, not in any way. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic. I apologize, Mr Miroslav Markicevic, as deputy head of the New Serbia parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13954	Mr. Vice President, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I appeal to Article 226 and ask for a notice. At this point, Mr. Vice President, we MPs have no one to ask and ask for that notice, but you. Given that I am testifying that you are a testified democratic and toleranceary man, we ask that on behalf of the ruling coalition, since there are no heads of parliament here who belong to the ruling coalition, nor deputies, MPs of the NS and all citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, you say what your intention is, in fact, at this point. What's the plan of the ruling coalition? What do you want? Is this what's going on these two days the National Assembly? Does anyone here, like no one, stick their head in the sand? Is anyone aware of the situation that Serbian citizens are in? What's your plan? What are your intentions? Do you in the ruling coalition have any consultations? Do you have any suggestions to bring out here or will this work of the Assembly continue to total nonsense? Do you know that the citizens of Vojvodina, especially Serbian nationalities, are upset? Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija should not be talked about, fired workers, those who are waiting to be fired, about those who have not received salaries. I can say that the opposition MPs have a responsibility to their voters and citizens who gave them the mandate to come here, but our responsibility against your... At the same time, you are the ruling coalition, your responsibility is incomparably greater. You run this congregation. Now, right now, you can end this shameful day here. Call for consultations from all the heads of parliament to make a deal, if we can, or call the election. What's going on here isn't normal. Is it in anyone's interest to completely dissuade and destroy this National Assembly? If we're not good, someone else will come, but the National Assembly has to work. Are you aware of that, is that your goal? Is that what the government of the Republic of Serbia is after? Is that the goal of the president of Serbia, is that your goal? Tell me what your goal is, gentlemen of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13955	Thank you. The word is Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13956	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you saw when the shoes were being taken off here, you can imagine what was just taking off in Tadic's cabinet. What's very important is that you've seen these affairs that occur, especially at the Department of Commerce. Are these men arrested and who are members of this new treasonous party, who are together with Bojan Dimitrijevic at the head of such crime and such corruption... These are the people who make up today a part of this traitorous political party. I also want to tell you MPs, probably the whole Serbian public, something that is very important for these resignations that the gentleman keeps mentioning, is not a gentleman but a Tomislav Nikolic. When these resignations were to be signed, I didn't sign because I didn't have time to wait for those resignations to be signed. On the highway he called me to go back and said – there is an MP from Ban's Hill with you. I know that there is not an MP from Ban's Hill, but an MP from Ban's Field near Bogatic. He says: It is good when he is of the rich, when he is not of Ban's hill; for he would betray me. Come back right now to sign those resignations. So, then those resignations were very important to Tomislav Nikolic, and today these resignations are not important to him, that's what the public needs to know. Secondly, as for his constant mention, I've never cursed his mother, I've asked him – if he's my political dad, then who's my political mom? If his darling is a political mother to him, then let him decide. What is also very important, ladies and gentlemen, was to talk about a very important task waiting for us for spring, which is sowing. As my colleague, Pera Jojic, ladies and gentlemen, always mentions, you should see that the peasant is not at a minus or at zero, but is completely at risk, because everything he has to give for the sowing he can't regret after that or achieve any gain. That's what the state should mention and think about it. He needs to think about the straw of salvation, and the straw of salvation of this country, as you keep mentioning, is agriculture. You've destroyed her, you've kidnapped her, you've led to that peasant, as the greatest hero... (President: Time, Mr. Zivanovic. )......................................................................................................... Work, it's a social case today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13957	The word is Mrs Gordana Paunović-Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13958	Ladies and gentlemen, would you mind if we could finish this session? Before I ask a parliamentary question, I would like to remind all the MPs of two unpleasant events whose dates are approaching these days: on February 23rd, there will be six full and will begin seven years after the SRS president is in The Hague tribunal, in a tribunal that leads all Serbs to torture and to fight for their human rights. Also, on March 24th, it ends ten years after NATO aggression, when ammunition was used with impoverished uranium during NATO bombing of the SRJ in 1999. This can't be forgotten. This must be condemned and this must be condemned by everyone, and by President Boris Tadic. The Serbian Radical Party has since initially condemned NATO's bombing and bombing of Serbian citizens. The ammunition from the impoverished uranium during impact on the armor creates a cloud of radioactive dust that contaminates and whose breathing is dangerous to health. So far, why has the Ministry of Health and the health minister, who has been the health minister four times since 2000, done no medical research to prove how many people have suffered from various organ cancers due to poor uranium? It has been shown that from 1999 to 2002 malignancy has increased by 13%. Many doctors keep warning that the number of patients is increasing. Every year in Serbia, 30,000 people die more than they are born, or one city in Serbia disappears. The Italian government, or media, has proven that the poisoning of poor uranium during NATO bombings has killed 45 Italian soldiers serving in Kosovo and Metohija in KFOR, while 515 suffers from cancer. Serbian citizens are in fear and deceived by false Serbs, as the democratic government has declared the criminals NATO aggression allies and the terrible war criminals the consequences of democratic change. For the sake of Serbian citizens, please tell us that the Ministry of Health has already announced medical research on how many people have been suffering from cancer since 1999, because we know that malignancy is the second cause of death in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13959	As last for today, the word has Mr Alexander Martinovic. If you're answering the Rules of Procedure and respecting the time of three minutes, there's plenty of time until the end of the transmission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13960	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not disputed that the SRS respects the Rules of Procedure, but it seems to be controversial when it comes to the ruling majority. So, Mrs Gordana Comic used to criticise opposition MPs for not putting their cards into MPs' units, or why they don't give the quorum for the start of the National Assembly session, but when it comes to the ruling coalition, there is another archeologist, so who says the ruling coalition has to give a quorum for the session of the Administrative Committee. She used to call the Rules of Procedure. This is what the Rules of Procedure, Rule 221, says: "The MP is obliged to participate in the work of the National Assembly." I guess that also means the work of the Administrative Board. "The MP on permanent work in the National Assembly is obliged to attend the session of the National Assembly when determining the quorum, as well as during the session. The Members of Parliament of the People of the 1st position who are unwarranted when determining the quorum or during the work at the National Assembly session will be deprived of the status of Members of Permanent Works in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. "It is clear that the ruling coalition has today avoided attending a session of the Administrative Committee. Mr. Novakovic, you're a lawyer, you'll probably understand, the quorum wasn't necessary because the session started yesterday. It could have been debated. Mr Nenad Konstantinovic did not give a word to the MPs from the SRS. He ended the session and unofficially told us that he would call for a new session, reportedly, at 10.00 p.m. Friday, and that this 34th session was not over either. Do you know what that means? The 36th session will begin, and 34th is not over. If that's possible anywhere, in any of the world's parliaments, you tell me, I'll apologize for everything I've said. Since you said that you are from Novi Sad, I respect and respect that fact, and here some of your MPs laughed, here, today a daily paper published the following article: "The capital of Vojvodina Novi Sad", watch out for this syntagmu - the capital of Vojvodina, so you've already written it off, "it's written in anti-Serbian graphite: Serbs on willows, Serbs on the march from here, great Hungary, Serbs under ice. The most inscriptions are on university campus buildings," there you too, Mr. Novakovic, may have studied, "but there are them all over town. Croatian and Hungarian extremists are believed to be behind them. The graphites are written with a latinic letter, black or green spray. The black inscriptions were signed in intertwined letters 'u' and'm', which at the time of the independent state of Croatia represented the signs of an organisation of'resistant youth'; then, with BBB, which is abbreviations for 'bed blue boys', fans of Zagreb Dinam, and there is an unknown signature. "If this is funny to you, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, Serbs living in Vojvodina are not funny at all. This is how it started in Slovenia, this is how it started in Croatia, and this is how it started in Kosovo and Metohija. The official authorities of the province of Vojvodina invent a new nation – the Dukes. All those employed in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in health care, social services, education, etc. when they are declared, when they fill out the questionnaires, they have the right to make themselves known, even as the Dukes. It is not worth the explanation of Nenad Chanka – the children announced the map of Vojvodina, what we can do. Some children started a war in Slovenia, but that's why some other children aren't alive today. So that it doesn't happen to us again, please, don't laugh, don't provoke conflicts that can be poured out outside the National Assembly. Let's solve these problems here. Come to the board meeting, make whatever decision you make, vote for resignations, against resignations, but be men, be men, come to the session and state your position. Don't be cowards. The Serbian people have never been a cowardly people. And among you there are decent Serbs, I am convinced of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-02-11-0.u13961	No comment, except thank you for today's work. Continuation is tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
