ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24027	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, that is, more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by Professor Borislav Pelevic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session, in addition to the proposing representatives, Minister Diana Dragutinović, Finance Minister and Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, to be attended by Vuk Djokovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Ruzica Stojljković, Assistant Director of the Treasury Management, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and Radmila Bukumirić-Katic, Assistant Minister of Labour and Social Policy. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the BUDGETS SYSTEM (specificity) Ms. Verica Radeta is advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24028	Mrs Đukić-Dejanović, I address you directly, and on the basis of your obligation under Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges you to keep an eye on the application of the Rules of Procedure, both at the sitting itself and on the assembly committees. Two days ago, there was a scandal on the Legislative Committee, so that all amendments of the SRS MPs were rejected as incomplete, without any explanation of what was incomplete. Of course, we understand that the assembly majority here does not want to hear the MPs of the SRS what they have to say about the Budget System Act. Of course, in this context, government work, government measures and the hungry and unemployed in the Republic of Serbia. This is really a scandalous shagging of an MP's group, just because the assembly majority doesn't want to hear our opinion. There is, formally, such a possibility in the Rules of Procedure, but it is the obligation of the Legislative Committee to determine what these elements are. We argue that all our amendments are complete, that all, as well as tens of thousands of amendments submitted in the previous period, are absolutely in line with the Rules of Procedure and, first of all, for the sake of the public, we insist that the President of the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, tells the MPs and the Assembly, what is incomplete in the amendments submitted by the SRS MPs to the draft law on the budgetary system.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24029	Thank you. Time's up. I already have information that the Legislative Committee has acted in accordance with Article 148 paragraphs 2 and 3, but the President of the Legislative Committee, Mr Vlatko Ratkovic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24030	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Radeta, you are a member of the Legislative Committee, and besides you, several other members of your parliamentary group. If you had attended the session, you would have had an explanation, but it is my duty as chairman of the Committee to give an answer at the plenary session. The Group of Amendments of the SRS Group shall be rejected by virtue of Article 140, given that it does not comply with Article 147,148, as well as other relevant members and provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Legislative Committee based its decision, based on the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, applying both telecommunication and Semantic and language interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the debate in particular is initiated by the submission of amendments. The amendment, by its legal definition, is a proposal for amending and supplementing the law and it, apart from the dissents, must also contain an explanation. Formal-legislatively, in a formal sense, all these amendments contain an explanation, but the explanation for all the amendments submitted is identical. The content of the reasons for these amendments is, in fact, the principle of the SRS MP's position on the draft law, specifically on the draft law on the budgetary system, rather than the reasoning of the amendment's sentence. Here, I will take an example, I have several amendments, one of the MPs of the SRS who together submitted the MPs Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, etc. The amendment proposes that Article 1. The bill is deleted. The interpretation of the amendment is as follows: ''Serbian Radical Party considers the draft law on the budgetary system incomplete, non-functional and without full and public and legal institutions. The draft law does not provide a clear definition of the budgetary system. Penalty policy is inadequate and incomplete. The Serbian Radical Party proposes that the bill be withdrawn and brought into line with modern scientific flows and other legal regulations in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. '"This argument is, let's say, with the modern dictionary "buy a page", an explanation for all hundreds, and I don't know how many amendments, actually, this law has 113 members. For example, the last member in this law reads: 'This law shall enter into force on the eighth day of the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia.' And this member has the same explanation. The Committee is of the view that the argument is not valid, that there is no connection between the sentence and the interpretation of the amendment. So it has to be considered that there is no explanation for these reasons, and based on the quoted norms of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, they are rejected as incomplete. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24031	Thank you. There's no basis for replication. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Cedomir Jovanovic, Slobodan Maras, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanovic, Vladan Jeremic, Dejan Mirović, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksović, Vjerica Rade, Srejko Perić, Mirko Munjic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Aleksandar Martinović, Momir Marković, Milorad Krstinović, Radovan Radovanovic, Nenad Popović, Radojko Obradović, Branko Ljiljak, Ljiljana Miladinović, Veroljub Arsić, Miletak Poskurica, Dragan Čolić, Zoran Antić, Jorvanka Tabaković, Oto Kišmarton, Boris Pelević, Mić and Stefan Zaljan Zaljan Zaldić, Ćić, Tomić Žalić Žalić, Zalić, Zaljan Žalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, Zalić, V. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as incomplete amendments of the People's MPs: Milorad Buhe, Zoran Krasic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanovic, Vladan Jeremic, Dejan Mirović, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksic, Vjerica Radet, Sreta Perić, Mirko Munjic, Gordane Pop-Lazić, Aleksandr Martinović, Momira Marković, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 36, 37, 39, 40, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 25, 26, 27, 54, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 76, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 76, 66, 66, 66, 66, 76, 76, 66, 76, 76, 36, 36, 36, 36, 39, 39, 39, 39, 39, 39, 40, 40, 40, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 42, 46, 46, 46, 46, 46, 47, 47, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 49, 59, 59, 59, 59, 54, 54, 54, 54, 54, 54, 54, 54, 54, 54, 54, 54, 54, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 56, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, The Legislative Committee is also on the basis of Article 147(2). The Rules of Procedure rejected MP Veroljub Arsic's amendment to Article 2nd point 60 and amendments submitted jointly by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic to Article 7(5). It's a bill of law. Discarded amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted upon, and the Committee's report will be received shortly, given that the Committee's session was completed somewhat later. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Mrs Radeta, if you are not satisfied with the answers you have received regarding your advertising of the Rules of Procedure, although advertising of the Rules of Procedure refers to the atmosphere during the plenary session, we can declare in the day to vote on your remarks, or on the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the answers or do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (The Belief of Radet, from the place, that the National Assembly should be declared in the day of the vote! ) Mr Zoran Nikolic advertises the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24032	Just to let you know, too. The DSS parliamentary group has a problem with the first two lines, it's absolutely impossible to sign up. It says on the display, some, securitize the system, etc. We have been prevented from sitting in the first two rows and for MPs who are otherwise sitting there to apply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, just one technical notice, to report to the technical service, to see what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24033	Thank you. We'll notify the technical service and the company what's needed. The People's MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Milutin Jelic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24034	Looks like it's not just the first and second lines, and it doesn't work here. Please don't count on me time to defend the amendments, because in your quick but clear reading, I haven't been able to hear why the amendment was rejected, you said, for technical reasons, to Article 7 paragraph 5 and I couldn't inform myself as a MP about these shortcomings, because neither I nor my colleague Becic were invited to the Finance Committee, where I could hear what it was about. Please, if you are in a position to tell me why the amendment to Article 7(5) has been rejected from some shortcomings.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24035	The President of the Legislative Committee has the word. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24036	Thank you. The Legislative Committee rejected amendments by Parliamentarian Veroljub Arsic to Article 2 of item 1 of point 60 and amendments submitted jointly by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorgovanka Tabakovic, as well as by Article 147(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Paragraph 2 of this article reads: 'The applicant for the amendment cannot, alone or together with other Members of the People, submit several amendments to the same member of the bill. ''In both cases, MPs submitted two amendments to the same article of the bill and for these reasons these amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24037	Thank you. Mrs. Tabakovic, you have a word to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24038	Describing the amendment to Article 2 to take the opportunity to ask Mr Vlatko Ratkovic: if the two MPs submitted the amendments to one member of the law, was it okay to reject and not invite MPs to make a statement?- I'm sorry. For we could - one amendment to defend one MP and another amendment to another MP. It is really not right in this way to refuse to discuss the essential amendment, and I will take the opportunity to apply the amendment to Article 2, where we are looking for the removal of a single body to be dealt with in this matter, I would like to explain Article 7(5). It's a bill of law. Article 7, although this is not the case, provides for one view that, if the implementation of funds transferred from the Republic of Serbia's budget is to be transferred to other levels of government or compulsory social insurance organisations, the implementation of the Constitution or the special law of the obligations established that the minister has the right to reduce, or suspend, funds transferred to other levels of authorities and organisations for compulsory social security and to immediately inform the Government thereof. Respected citizens, in no way harmless, at the moment when talking about reforming the pension system and pension system as the biggest consumer of budget funds, it is planned that the minister's right to reduce the funds that are being directed, I suppose, to that very purpose, and otherwise I question all other fellow Members – however the law established may be more legal than any other... (President: I thank you. I have the time of the parliamentary group. (President: Please. I'd like to ask you to keep in mind the importance of the law I'm talking about... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24039	You need to reapply. It's still time from the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24040	Is it necessary to calculate time like this or is this the way of behavior designed to be deconcentrated? I'll tell you he's a failure. So, if it's necessary to interrupt, give me your word again, I'll say it's a paper in the way it works. It's impossible to treat one serious thing like this. Dismissing the amendment to the position given to the minister that certain budgets established by law and approved by the Assembly in the ordinary procedure may decide that social giving is less important and that such an amendment should be adopted. I worry about one other thing, that at the moment when the loans, which are many, will be a priority over priorities, and that the funds for the payment of pensions and social benefits will be the second order of priorities to which the damages will be paid and the obligations for which you are entitled to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24041	The People's MP Branko Ljiljak submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mićo Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24042	Dear colleagues, before I go on to explain the tabled amendment to Article 4 of this Budget Act, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate my fellow MP from DS Dragan Vujadinovic on the election for the president of Kosjeric municipality, but also to invite him to resign as MPs because he has been in conflict of interest since yesterday, so that it would not be like with other fellow Members of the People's Parliament and at the same time the presidents of municipalities or mayors of municipalities. Article 4 The Budgetary System Act regulates budgetary objectives that need to achieve overall fiscal sustainability and control at point 1) and, in point 2), allocation efficiency and point 3) technical or operational efficiency. As a priority of Article 4. The draft budget system law lists macroeconomic stability, low inflation, economic development, fostering regional development and reducing financial risks. The amendment to point 2), which reads as 'locational efficiency which implies the ability to set priorities within the budget, the allocation of funds according to the priorities of the government within the budget, as well as the ability to transfer funds from old to new or less productive to more productive priorities', requires that, after the word 'internal budget', a point be placed instead of a comma, and that 'the ability to transfer funds from old to new or less productive to more productive priorities' be rejected. Why and for what reason? These budgetary objectives leave the Government with the possibility, or the finance minister, to decide at any moment what priorities or priority objectives are, which is to the extent that it is free to transfer, within those objectives and measures, from certain beneficiaries of the budget to others. Then why there is a budget system calendar when ministers were obliged to deliver instructions to prepare the draft budget of the Republic of Serbia by June 1st, too, to local authorities and organisations for compulsory social security to submit draft proposals. It can't work this way. It automatically eliminates position 2, of this member, where the budget system is said to provide comprehensive, relevant and reliable information on government work. This also refers to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's assembly, i.e. the institution of budgetary control and rebalancing. In your explanation, it is not problematic that Article 4 does not state the institution of budget rebalancing, but all the measures that you, from a certain lower level, transfer to a higher level of priority or a non-productive product to a productive system can only be institutionally defined here or, since it is a comprehensive law, in local self-government congregations, to determine such ones. So, without budget rebalancing institutions, it is impossible for these measures that you state as an explanation and measures that you state in Articles 2 and 3 of this Law, to live up to their reality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24043	Pursuant to Article 4 of the amendment, it shall be based on Article 147. The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24044	We would be perfectly pleased that only this amendment, out of the 40 that we have submitted, is being asked about the budgetary objective, to actually reduce unemployment and achieve sustainable economic growth, while improving living standards. And what the government predicted as a goal: macroeconomic stability, low inflation, balanced regional development and a reduction of financial risk, and as it suits responsible and serious people, we called measures to achieve objectives called employment, economic growth and improving the economic standard of the population. I want to repeat that employees' salaries are not a expense. They are the demand that stimulate production in various areas. It's purchasing power in stores and that's what leads to the development of a society. The fact that this key amendment was rejected and that this current authority did not accept that its primary objective was to increase employment, and that it was only a flossula in performances, but not a provision in the law, even if it was a goal, speaks of the nature of the current government. This refusal of amendments I understand, and I really think that's one of the basic reasons why this government needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24045	Mr. Milorad Buha has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I will use 15 minutes belonging to the SRS, and I will refer firstly to the decision of the Legislative Committee to reject amendments to the SRS and from the point of view of the party's legal and position, the injured Rules of Procedure, provision of Article 148(2), which says: "The Legislative Committee will reject the untimely, incomplete and offensive amendments, which will be rejected by the National Assembly. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. ''Look, the provision of Article 148(2) clearly states in which direction it can be moved and on which can be decided to reject the untimely, incomplete, amendment with offensive content. In this case none of these conditions stand, the Legislative Committee could not make such a decision. In this case, it is an illegal decision, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and we must warn the public. Furthermore, what we pointed out to you two days ago, as far as this law is concerned, the SRS considers the backbone of the economic and financial system of provisions of this law. He's very important, he's system law. It is a law that introduces many life situations, all social, economic, political, social and every other life. This law includes all this together and therefore we need to pay particular attention to the provisions of this law, because if we don't find the right provisions and we don't make the right normative provision in this case we'll be wrong. I think the bill promoter, when he made the decision to come up with this proposal, incompletely, incompletely evaluated and assessed the essence and content of this area, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have life and life situations that give us the right to have a lot of problems in our practical life in applying the Law on Public Revenue and Expension, the Budgetary System Act. That's why we believe that the government has missed matter in this case, and that's why we've asked for the erasure of all the provisions of this law and the withdrawal, the alignment, the modernisation, the practical, to overcome everything that's been seen in the practical implementation so far and to apply this law to be incorporated into this law. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. When we say that it is a system-based legal regulation, then we think too much of the provisions that regulate the issue of planning, governance, enforcement, financing, control, review, sanctions and criminal policies that are incorporated into the provisions of this bill. The SRS's position that the provisions relating to the budgets of the Autonomous provinces, the capital and the city's budgets are inadequate, untimely not stated and everything that has to be normised in this law is not written. In practical application of the provisions of this law will not be functional and therefore we have asked for the erasure of these and the alignment. On the other hand, knowing what problems we have in the Statute of Vojvodina, otherwise the constitutional position of Vojvodina, we fear that in practical application it will cause a huge self-will that is present in the Autonomous province, huge problems and illegal work, illegal application of legislation relating to the financing of the Autonomous province, and that this is all one set, one continent that must warn us that we must not leave legal gaps that are subsequently being misused. There are numerous examples of abuse of the budget system of autonomous financing, and this is particularly present in the Capital Investment Fund. The best picture of the situation was the former president of the municipality of Zrenjan Knezevic, who was arrested, among other things, for failing to finance, and he did not point to abuses stemming from the Capital Investment Fund. When we talk about the incompleteness of this law, we must point out that the objectives set out here and the principles on which this law is based are not complete, are not integrated, are not systematic, because they did not cover the whole problem covered by this law, which is the problem of monetary policy, economic, financial, social, fiscal, and any other policy. I think the provisions of this law are incomplete because of that. The definition of direct and indirect users of the budget is not done in the right way. We know what has been happening in the practical situation so far, that direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds have been unlawfully spending funds precisely because we did not have clear, decadently defined provisions and legal regulations that will provide clear instructions on how to use these funds, the intentional use of these funds and the control method, because the control is lagging behind. Also, we've opened the question of the calendar. The question of the calendar is not resolved in the most appropriate way. The legislator had to take into account the situation so far that we had problems when December 15th came, when it must be brought into line, when there must be clearly certain appraisals of determined financial amounts to be defined by the budget. We've had a situation before when we get a budget proposal that here some parties that make up the ruling coalition openly say it's illegal, that they won't vote, well, then the trade begins. Just because there is no trade, the SRS proposal is that all this ends in the tenth month, so it should be calendarly seen, processed, normised to adopt the budget by October 1st or perhaps October 15th, and then avoided these situations, i.e. they would be much easier; last year, considering the budget proposal made it clear that we had to take care of it. Unfortunately, the legislator kept a calendar that was foreseen by the old law. The issue of achieving its own income, the division of these revenues has not been addressed in an adequate manner. As for the final budget, we must point out and tell the public that the government has not adopted the final budget account since 2002. This left out control, first of all to the public, and on the other hand, the control of institutions that have to exercise budget control. The state audit institution was formed only last year, and we know the constitutional provisions that suggest that it had to be defined far before, it had to be formed far before. Its function is known, the purpose of its operation, and especially its control. We know in practical application that we have numerous abuses, and the State Auditing Institution must be the spending controller of these funds. Since she didn't work, we had no control and no one covered it properly. From the means of information we can hear complaints from the State Auditing Institution which complains of the current authority that there is no adequate space for its work, that there is not enough staff to perform its function, that there is no adequate equipment, etc. You need to think about why you're keeping her in this condition. First of all, there was no such thing as breaking the law. Now that she exists, she's out of function, she doesn't have her own proper space. The funds allocated to the work of the staff of this institution are insufficient. Three days ago, we were able to read a statement by the heads of this institution saying that there are no new employees interested in employment due to low earnings. The receiving of the most responsible people in this country's financial system is between 55,000 and 60,000 dinars. It's too small, because we know that a little better private companies, companies, give far more because it's the most professional jobs that have to be rewarded and paid. It wasn't done because it wasn't in line with the provisions of the salaries and profits of the civil servants, because it doesn't suit you. Your inauguration of the financial control institution, the State Audit Institution, is not in the interest. That's why they have such huge problems in this institution. When we talk about inspections, we believe that by keeping the existing inspection system, you have not solved it in an integrated, comprehensive and functional way. How will they control the inspection in the municipality when the municipal authorities choose it, when they give it inspection and control orders, and how will those who earn money from the same authorities control it, and in particular control of the legal spending of funds? It's a negative experience. You haven't fixed anything. After the concept of other inspections, you had to resolve it. The inspection financial control or the budgetary inspection must be an integral state institution, which is financed from the Republic budget, selected by the Republic authorities, the control is carried out on the basis of the orders of the Republic authorities, which is far more comprehensive, more complete and has its purpose and purpose. This, dissociated, without complete control by the republican authorities, will not have the function that a budgetary inspection would have to have. Speaking of criminal provisions, I think this is the funniest law that regulated the area of criminal policy. So much minor punishment for the violations committed by the state authorities, that's one laugh and the basis for which we've asked to delete the provisions on criminal policy is exactly that. The fine between 5,000 and 50,000 dinars for everything you've normized as a violation is ridiculous. On the other hand, I'll only mention the accounting and audit law. For almost the same character of part of the offense, fines are several tenths and hundreds of times larger. That's where the fines are scheduled to be up to three million for the same act, and this is 50,000. Now, that clearly says you don't care about completion, about the systematicity of criminal policy. Why? This law should regulate the entire criminal policy for irregular payment, illegal operation, irrational action and all elements of the violations of the commercial offences that are practically committed. So if we don't have a whole well-organised system of planning, budgeting, budget implementation, criminal policies, control policies, etc. We must openly say that this law will not be in office. That is why it is our suggestion that he withdraws to work and builds a modern system that will fit the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. You must be worried about the revenue policy of the budget we point to. You've processed it here with a lot of members. Budget indicators in the first six months tell us that tax revenues are a 95% component of the income budget, and only 5% are non-tax revenues. These elements from the practical implementation of the budget must concern us – and that does not concern you. Neither the economy can bear such high taxes, nor can the public bear it more. Don't worry about the non-tax revenues that are very broadly set here, to pick up, to fertilize everything that represents the property of this country – on the side of privatisation and the funds we've collected from privatisation, because it's going to be special what I'm going to talk about here. The reduction of transfers by municipalities, i.e. by budget rebalancing, is foreseen to reduce the transfer of municipalities of 15 billion. Practically, I hear from the municipalities that it's not 15 billion, but it's only 30% of the 45 billion that was adopted by the 2009 budget. Do you count on the budget rebalancing, which, somewhere in the ninth month, will make all this happen that you don't pay for? You can't do that. Here, I'll explain it to you on a specific case. The Apatin municipality has so far received 19.5 million each month, somewhere, until the third month, and then four million, and that will be the basis of this government decision as such. Transfer funds must correspond to draft and adopted budget projections and budget rebalancing. If it's 15 billion, you can't do it anymore. You are far more deprived of the municipalities and they are now brought to the brink and inability of real work and survival. All of what was drawn out of their budgets is based on those funds that were planned from the transfer. They didn't get your transfer decision until a few days ago, so they worked empty. That doesn't know any laws. They didn't get all the important elements you had to adopt a long time ago. Based on the budget rebalancing, you had to propose a law on the transfer of municipalities. You relocated it, you did the counter-indicator shop again, to the government's decision, and in this way you violated the provisions of the Budget Law, the Budgetary System Act and a number of other regulations. In practical application we see huge problems of municipalities in normal functioning and work. As for financing and funding opportunities for the municipalities of autonomous provinces, we believe that you have not adequately resolved the financing – the free funds left in the local self-government budgets are meant. In the past, we have had numerous abuses committed by municipalities, municipal executives because they have made certain funding, as they have provided funds to economic operators, i.e. in some situations, economic operators without adequate contracts, without adequate control, without adequate profanity, etc. It must not be allowed for any entity, and especially for local authorities, including the regional authorities, to finance without adequate interest policy. On the basis of which interest policies did municipalities transfer funds to other legal entities? Is it regulated by any regulation – is it not? Are the decisions of the congregations or the council councils - not? It's the self-will of community managers who have chosen some economic operators. In many situations these were party officials who participated in the work of local self-government, these are individual enterprises, institutions and associations that are within the same party – they are granted funds under privileged conditions, etc. We've been breaking the laws, and you're allowing it now, too, because you haven't properly resolved the issue of maiming state funds. As the practical performance stands, here, I will bring you here one of my parliamentary questions, which I have asked several times. Unfortunately, I got an answer once. After that, I asked for a re-up. But after that, I got nothing. Among other things, the issue was asked by the finance ministry. You had to argue to explain it and answer this question, because it's your ministry's jurisdiction, it's the authority of the budget inspection that you're covering. I asked for information and my answer to my question from the Republic Budgetary Inspection – none of them I received, none of you received. This clearly tells how much you take care of the public, because this question is asked by many associations of the Krajisniks. I put him on behalf of them and in my name as an MP. Unfortunately, there's no answer. The worst is the fate of unintendedly spent funds, and behind all this there is a political basis. In 2007 the government of the Republic of Serbia transferred 40m dinars to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy from budget reserves, as a form of participation in humanitarian action in refugee management. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has transferred these 40 million, only rerouting funds to the Divac humanitarian organisation, instead of using the Refugee Commissioner alone, or using these funds to buy apartments or houses for the most endangered refugee families. The government, I say, respected the legal provision of the Budgetary System Act, transferred it to a direct beneficiary of funds, and the direct beneficiary of the funds, without any competition, rerouted those funds to a third party. Why do we say it's an incomplete system? Just because you haven't regulated the way – as well as under what conditions, whether with a competition, in which situations without competition, ministry or other state bodies can transfer funds or cannot. You haven't dealt with this properly in the Budgetary System Act anywhere. Watch now, fate. The ministry law provides for the government and the Republic of Serbia to transfer funds to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in order to provide and assist the refugee population. She is obliged, therefore, to transfer the funds she receives from the government to certain programmes adopted by the government. Unfortunately, neither the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has care programmes, nor is there any dedicated means for these situations. Since it is about Divac, your political ally, who runs a certain humanitarian action, these activities should also be welcomed, however, he cannot get the funds in the way he got them. I asked this parliamentary question: "Is the control carried out by the Republic Budgetary Inspection in the humanitarian organisation "The Divac" for what were these funds spent on? There are data on what the funds were invested in, but even part of those funds were not invested for these purposes, at least they are not seen on his site, it was his obligation that everything he received from the state be listed in his report. The Republic's budgetary inspection had to exercise control. Now, this is an eclectic example of how the state works. State resources are being converted into private institutions, ending in private pockets, and the purpose of these funds is to help the refugee population who has not received nearly a penny from these funds. I'll get back to you later. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24047	Mr. Maras Free has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24048	As an authorised representative. First of all, I'd like to start with the annual report on the work of the 2008 budget inspection. What is interesting should be given the fact that there may have been one sentence that could have been the initial chapel for the adoption of one such law, regardless of all those arguments, which is that there have been certain difficulties which have had an impact on the effective use of the working time of the inspector and the auditor, which are viewed primarily in the inaccuracy of the regulations governing the area of budgetary consumption, as well as the organisational problems of the functioning of the accompanying services. What do we see next? It says: irregularity and illegality of established control. So in 2008, the budgetary inspection carried out 71 controls. Of these, 88% of those controlled by the budget inspection worked past the law, i.e. irregularities and illegalities were found, and even two ministries in this report (by budgetary inspection) were found to be like those in their work of irregularities and illegality. In order not to mention all these names now, there are also companies from Novi Sad and these two ministries, what is most important to me is what stands back, Mrs Dragutinovic, and I will explain later and why. It says: problems in the conduct of budget inspection operations. The main problems are existing systematisation, as well as the receiving of those working in the budgetary inspection, leading nine inspectors to leave these jobs during 2008. So there aren't enough people. You need to be familiar with that. Don't fold your eyebrows or shoulders. So, due to low wages, and no new budgetary inspectors have been received, nine budgetary inspectors have left the Budgetary Control Department. It is necessary to fill the empty spaces urgently so that anything can be done. We now have the Budgetary System Act that we have talked about so many times and that we have quoted so many times in this room most of us fellows from the opposition, for several reasons: The first is that the calendar of the Budgetary System Act is not respected. Not to repeat what all citizens and all MPs know, how we've brought the last two budgets, that is, the 2008 budget and the 2009 budget, what a game it was, how late it was, etc. Mrs Dragutinovic, we have submitted a small number of amendments. I can say that the reasons for the adoption of this law largely exist in what you have stated – because of the creation of conditions for the use of EU development aid and the obligation for Serbia to form appropriate institutions, etc. However, you have listed some difficulties, which I suppose by adopting this law will be removed; let's say, so far, the agencies have not been able to control themselves in the best way and that should be corrected. What bothered us the most in this bill, and we have submitted an amendment to Article 46 paragraph 10, is your plan that temporary funding can be extended in exceptional situations to another three months, which means a total of six months. If we want to be responsible and serious, I think you have to accept something like this, that temporary funding can be three months, by January 31st, not June 30th. As an excuse in your explanation, Mrs Dragutinovic, when you rejected the LDP amendment, is that the amendment was not accepted for the reason why elections could happen in January. Why do you allow yourself to suggest something that is extremely unserious, irresponsible, that you plan, instead of limiting yourself, to clearly show the seriousness that temporary funding can be three months. I agree, that's how this government, and so did the previous one, suggested. Maybe we should say that temporary funding can go indefinitely because you can't deliver the Budget Law Assembly in time, because you can't provide most of it at a certain point, because we don't have enough time, because there are a lot of amendments, etc. With such an assumption to enter into the adoption of the Budgetary System Act, I think it's extremely unserious. It's one of our key amendments, I can't say the key, but the most important amendment, where we think we should adopt such a thing. Secondly, in Article 103(1), you have provided for a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars, and I believe that every citizen will freeze to death when he hears about what, he says: "The fine of five to 50,000 dinars will punish the responsible person of the beneficiary of the budget, the responsible person in the organisation for compulsory social security or other responsible person, for the following offences: 1) if he creates a commitment or a burden on the budget to pay the expenditure that is not foreseen in the budget;''' see the budget inspection report. Look what the departments did. Look at what the public companies were doing that were controlled. You will punish a responsible person with a minimum of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars. He's supposed to get five to fifteen years in prison, the one who led us to have 300m euros in debt in the Serbian Roads, which led us to have 100m debts in the NIS! What's the budget calendar for anyway? What is the budget calendar for when a public company was owned by the Republic of Serbia until 31.12.2008, where is the final account of the NIS? That's what we've been talking about for months. Do you know what day it is? In mid-July. Where's the NIS final account? How did this company work? Who's responsible? Now that he's the second owner, or majority owner, who manages a hundred percent, that's next year's story, but what is it now? We're interested in who created these debts? Someone has to answer that. You're giving us the law, and then the first government doesn't adhere to that bill on the budget system that we've had so far on your proposal. So you don't respect the calendar provided for by the Budget System Act. I'll try to make things clear with you later, but I have to ask you something. At one session when we talked about chambers of commerce, Minister Mladjan Dinkic sat in your seat. He presented himself as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of Economics and Development and as Minister of Economy. (I have to read, last time I wasn't in the O.R., you said something we're not going to continue on about, so now I've brought the text in print. ) He says, like this, Mr Dinkic: "So we won't raise VAT while the crisis is going on, it's a guarantee. Why can I guarantee it? Because I stand behind it as Minister of Economy and Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy. "I asked Mr Dinkic -- who he is, since he told us before that he guaranteed that there would be no raise of VAT, whether he might be the finance minister, the prime minister, when he could guarantee something like that, and he said and quoted what he said: "I guarantee it, because I as Minister of Economy and Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy am behind it." I'm asking you now, will there be an increase in VAT? Is this one of the options that awaits businesses, citizens of Serbia and the state in the near future? I think that's one of the most important issues, regardless of what we're talking about now, it's all connected. So, are there gonna be an increase in VAT or not? Are these guarantees given by the economy minister and the vice-president of the government in charge of the economy of guarantees that Serbian citizens can accept for granted, as they accepted the 1,000-euro free action story and everything else, or was that a promise in the outflow of great confidence. You, as finance minister, should know better than he does. We recently had a controversy between Governor Jelasic and the aforementioned minister. We really think Governor Jelasic is right. The government must be responsible, it must withdraw unpopular measures. We need a rebalancing before the IMF arrives in August. You know why. Please answer us whether an increase in VAT is planned and how much is it going to be an increase, is it just speculation or does Governor Jelasic want to withdraw some unpopular measures? In our opinion, Governor Jelasic's statement was right and must withdraw unpopular measures. We want to know if that's what's gonna happen. I'm sure Minister Dinkic won't come out here and say, "We'll raise the VAT." He just shows up in public when the price of gasoline goes down, and since he jumps six times in two months, he's nowhere to be found. I ask you, as a responsible woman and responsible minister, who has been talking to us about unpleasant things for a long time, for the best reason, do you consider increasing VAT? Is that certain at what percentage? We have heard from one minister, who is the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy, that the crisis is going through, that we have been through the worst, that there will be no increase in VAT. From the governor, whom he suggested, we hear everything the opposite of that, and that we must withdraw unpopular measures. I'm sorry Mr Dinkic isn't here. Let me ask you, do you know what's going on at the Development Fund and how it works? Do you know how those who apply to the Development Fund, what are the excuses, refuse themselves? What happens after that and what offers come in. Send them there, a little bit, the gendarmes who should control it. That Development Fund didn't leave anybody with mom or dad. It is the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, and all competitors should be equal. Please, Mrs Dragutinović, if you can give us a decadent answer, and if not, then, at least, frame related to the increase in VAT. I think this is a key issue at this point for all citizens of Serbia and for all businessmen, and in the end, for the country itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24049	Thank you. On the basis of Article 2(2) of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Mico Rogovic. Mr. Rogovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24050	Dear fellow Members, on behalf of the Prosperity Group of the Serbian Progressive Party, on behalf of the 5th member of the Serbian Progressive Party, who deals with budgets and budget revenues and incomes, also with a dispensary party, i.e. budget expenditures and expenditures of the Republic of Serbia and lower bodies, i.e. The local authorities, we have submitted an amendment to Article 5(5), which originally reads: "Extremely, in the event that one level of government defines, by its other level of government, dedicated transfer funds, as well as the case of a grant contract, whose amounts could not be known in the budgetary process, the authority of the administration responsible for the financing under that act opens up appropriate expenditure-expension appraisals on that basis". For the Prosperity Group, nothing is disputed except for this Article 5, which we ask for the first part of the attitude to be deleted: 'Extremely, in case one level of government defines by means of its other level of power the dedicated transfer funds' and that only remains this part relating to 'delegation of donations'. We note that it is not justified in the event that one level of government defines its other authority's dedicated transfer funds, as you state in your proposal, for the same reason that this calls into question the planning process which, as counterpart Maras said and as I have said, is a long-standing procedure that you have provided for calendar dates for the budgetary law. The process of planning and budgeting is, in all respects, one long period of time, extremely serious and leaves room for all relations between different levels of government. That's why exceptions like this can't happen. We agree that the exception, in paragraph 4, relating to the elemental disasters, cannot be predictable as well as donations, i.e. the inflow in the case of a grant contract, whose amounts could not really be known in the budgetary process, so given this situation it is necessary that –the body of the administration in charge of the financing under this act opens the appropriate appraisals for the execution of expenditure on that basis. Based on all this, the illogical explanation of the government is related to this amendment, i.e. call for a practice that, in the light of priorities or not, the budget can be spent or, for example, a political relationship, the reciprocity or abuse of all of this, can be changed by various transfers in terms of the amount originally planned. And yes, once again, the budget rebalancing institute should be on every level, that institute that is responsible for, possibly, changing the level of transfer at certain levels of government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24051	Mr. Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24052	Since I'm authorized, I'm asking you to take my time from those 15 minutes. How important this law is we've already pointed out several times. The colleagues have already had several amendments, and there are several amendments to Article 5 that define the scope of the budget. Whenever the budget was on the agenda, we pointed out how important transparency is and how important it is to know what taxpayers' funds are being spent on. I'm going to quote a law that we're going to discuss in the next few days, and based on this provision, you're going to understand how serious the situation is and how access is being made to budget spending. There's a session scheduled for tomorrow to be held at the Law on Planning of Space and Construction. Article 195, that law, in its first position, says, "With a request for compensation and a permit for buildings built out of the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, an autonomous province, or a unit of local self-government," writes a list of acts to be delivered. In other words, the government of the Republic of Serbia says that although there are laws and there is an inspection, the government, or the state of Serbia, is funding illegal facilities from the budget, and the AP is doing so. We are now laying down rules on how we will legalise the facilities that we have financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, what are we talking about here, anyway?- I'm sorry. Well, how is it possible to finance illegal facilities from the budget?- I'm sorry. When you see the provisions and when you compare the provisions of some laws, then, you should not be surprised by our insistence on all the necessary documents we are looking for. The reason for that, the budget we're adopting here, with so little information, is the result that we have to legalize the facilities we've been building with state resources. You weren't there, it was about the provisions of some other laws, so just when you compare different laws, you figure out what kind of state you live in and how far away we are from all those goals we set. Otherwise, it was about that, you weren't there, I repeat, it's not a big deal, this law on planning and construction foresees legalisation of buildings built by means of funds, which only proves that objects are built against the laws that exist from the budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24053	The word is Mr Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one objection to the draft bill on the budgetary system. I would like to remind the minister that after the local elections, Serbs, on 11 May, self-organised and formed the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly, which was recognised by the government of the Republic of Serbia by its conclusion of 1344 since 10 July. Here, I will read that conclusion: "Departing from the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is explicit that the AP of Kosovo and Metohija is an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that after the unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo, i.e. Before the so-called Kosovo Constitution was declared, the need was created for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to be institutionally organised, to protect the security of Serbs and all other citizens living in KIM" and so on, the conclusion on support of the establishment of the Kosovo and Metohija Community Assembly is supported by the establishment of the KIM Community Assembly, founded on Vidovdan, on June 28th 2008 in Kosovo Mitrovica. "That necessary act that we adopted when we adopted the Declaration on the Establishment, Rules of Procedure, Statute and establishment of the Secretariats of the Assembly of the Communities, we published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". However, we cannot find common language and agreement with the Ministry of Finance, i.e. how to make the Assembly a beneficiary of the budget. On several occasions, I submitted amendments, when there was a draft budget law and when it was the draft budget rebalancing law, you refused, with an explanation that the Assembly of the Communities was not in the Budgetary System Act. Article 8 clearly states that the minister sets out by a special act a list of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I am now taking the opportunity to ask the parliamentary question of the Ministers: 'What should the Assembly of the Communities of Kosovo and Metohija do to have the minister pardoned and included the Assembly of Communities in this act, which regulates the list of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget? '"I'm saying this because we have a lot of problems. We've been working for 14 months since the funding went through. We didn't get a single dollar from the government of the Republic of Serbia. She has confessed to our congregation, our efforts to unite all 25 local self - government, but she does not want to help that congregation and it works. It's negligiblely small financial resources. On many occasions, I said it was no expense to the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, the government has no hearing. I ask the Minister to give us advice on how and how, if we were not beneficiaries of the 2009 budget, that we should be at least in 2010, if they continue to think what they wrote on June 10th, that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and continue to support the Kosovo and Metohija Assembly. It is very unserious to pass a government act that supports an institution, and then in 14 months, not one single dinar to maintain the institution. You know that we are persistent and that we will continue to maintain it ourselves and do it, but it would not be worse if the government separates at least minimal funds, as it separates for example local self-government and administrative districts in Kosovo and Metohija, so it could separate the funds for better and easier functioning and the Assembly of the Communities of Kosovo and Metohija. On the other hand, I would like just one more question to ask the minister -- a few days ago, more specifically, last Thursday, the government imposed temporary measures on SO Leposavic, with an explanation that no budget was adopted, i.e. when the budget was passed that there was no quorum at that session. I ask the question, please answer me, if that is true, and I claim it is not true that there was a quorum at the time and that the budget was legally passed – how is it possible that the Government is funding this local self-government these eight months, if it has established that the budget was not then brought in? By what law? If the budget had really not been passed, then it would have had to react then and move on to temporary funding. It is impossible for the government to finance a local self-government for eight months and then see that they do not actually have a budget, as it stands in the government's explanation when they imposed temporary measures on SO Leposavic. So I ask the Ministry of Finance to answer these two questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24055	The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Please, Mr. Popovic, just sign in if you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24056	In line with the principle of budget stability, it is necessary that all budgetary revenues and revenue be balanced with budgetary expenditures and expenditures. If the budget is planned realistically both on time and without the intention to cover up certain revenues and expenditures, then this principle can be fully respected and no additional restrictions are required for its implementation. However, the government tends to plan unrealistically, which is visible from both the previous budget and these budget rebalances. It is clear that the relationship between income from certain sources and expenditures of individual appraisals that are financed does not correspond. I can give for the illustration the unrealisticity of some projections of the flow of the budget in the first six months, which have been reduced by 7.9% and realistically by 16.2%. Tax revenues are nominally lower by 7.7 and realistic by 15.8%. We have a VAT that accounts for about 50% of all tax revenues. It has been assessed in continuity since last year's rebalancing proposal and in the 2009 budget, as well as later rebalancing. And if the VAT stays at the June level, then the budget deficit could reach 140 billion dinars by the end of the year, so if it stays at the June level. We now have a project deficit that was almost reached in six months in the budget, because the deficit was about 60, and it was supposed to be 70. In this case, we have proposed that, in the event that the beneficiary of the budget makes a dedicated own income, in the larger amount than planned, the authority of the administration responsible for the financing requested by that user, may increase the approved appropriations for the execution of expenditures from those revenues, but only on the basis of the budget inspection report, which reflects these reasons which have affected the increase in revenue. Also, I have to say, I'm just going to add, with the revenues of the budget users, they can, at some point in time, grow disproportionately, without their direct merits. (President: You can use the time of your parliamentary group, if you like. All right, let me finish. Well, there is therefore no reason to grant them an increase in the appraisal, except for the purposes and to cover increased costs of providing a greater volume of services, but they should also indicate the results of the work of the budgetary inspection. Some budget users cannot be granted more spending, only because they have made higher revenues. These revenues are charged by taxpayers and, we should try to disburse them part of the state's charge. The first measure may be to reduce the cost of providing services to the state administration, taxis and excises, not to increase spending rights, because it has money. When there is no money then there must be rebalancing, new taxes are sought, and when there is money, it is logical that they continue to be spent exclusively controlled. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24057	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mrs. Tabakovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24058	We have submitted an amendment to Article 7(1) and Article 5, which you have rejected for technical reasons, and I have explained in the first address. Article 7 in Article 1 stressed the responsibility of the finance minister, declaring him responsible for the implementation of the budget, and the 2nd position said the National Assembly for the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is responsible for the government. With this amendment, we asked for the erasure of attitude 1, because that, that the Minister of Finance is responsible for the implementation of the budget, if the Government is already responsible for the Assembly, is for us, and for this law, a completely excessive and burdensome provision. The finance minister is the Prime Minister's choice. He's responsible within the government for what's called execution, responsibility and obligation and, indeed, we don't think that's supposed to be found in this member of the law. The Law on Ministrys and the Law on Government, in the description of the Minister of Finance's job, explains the obligations you made in response to why the amendment was rejected. There is no reason to bring this into this law, but there was a special reason for making the other ministers who had significant resources directly responsible for the implementation, i.e. spending of funds in the budget. And why, for example, did you not write that the Minister of Economy and Regional Development is responsible, responsible and obliged, to be accountable to the National Assembly and the public for the funds spent, still, by regulations, by many purposes of budgetary means, by renting their political influence, in such a way that even some elections, at least the last two rounds of elections, were received by means of budgets, simply by bribing voters in this way. It's completely excessive in the law to say that the minister is in charge and responsible, because it's in the description of his job, it's the government. If a special responsibility was to be carried out, it should have been for those other ministers, who decide on the money, almost past the finance minister himself, as well as the laws that treat these subsidies and loans. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24059	Thank you. The MP, Mrs. Lidija Dimitrijevic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24060	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since this is the Legislative Committee all amendments submitted by the SRS Parliament Club have refused and we cannot talk about them, I will now speak within the time available to our parliamentary group. The general position of the SRS Parliament Club is that in this form the draft law on the budgetary system is not in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and it is proposed to delete all its members as well as Article 7. With this member, the promoter has defined responsibility for implementing the organisation's budgetary and financial plan for compulsory social security. We have proposed eradicating the whole of Article 7, which is thus also an attitude of 5, which says (ordinarily it is the next amendment, but I have now reported: "If the implementation of the funds transferred from the Republic of Serbia's budget to other levels of government or compulsory social security organisations threatens the implementation of the Constitution and the special laws laid down by the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, the minister may temporarily reduce, or suspend, the funds transferred to other levels of authorities or organisations for compulsory social security and immediately inform the Government. "This is a very sensitive matter, at this point. We are all aware of the transfer of funds to local self-government, as lower levels of government, by the Republic. This is one of the government's austerity measures, which the government believes will mitigate the negative effects of the global economic crisis. I don't think the government is aware that this move has led most of the local self-government to positions from which it can't be seen, because many municipalities and cities have had major problems in operation anyway and we can assume that, with the transfer cut, it will be. In smaller municipalities in southern Serbia, such as Vlasotince, Lebane, Bojnik, for example, has been said for a long time, that the reduction of transfers from the Republic is seriously threatening to cause a complete collapse in the functioning of local self-government. The government said the burden of the economic crisis would be equally distributed, that the more developed municipalities and cities would be more reduced, while underdeveloped reductions would be smaller. It was a story in one day, and in reality it turned out that underdeveloped municipalities and cities would not be seen this time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24061	Dr. Vladan Batic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24062	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, I will use these five minutes of discussion in particular to repeat the issue of the Murphy Bank. The second topic I will start with concerns the budget and the budget system, how and how the state of Serbia will provide the necessary funds for the purchase of agricultural products, to restore dignity to our peasants who have been turned into second-class citizens, for villages that have become slowly reserved, and in time the peasants will become Indians if such a state policy on agrarians continues. I remind you that Gun and Opaque celebrated this country, that Serbia was the first rural democracy in Europe, that it found its place in the order of European countries and peoples thanks to the ethnicity of its peasants, that exactly 100 years ago, in 1909 Serbia had a positive external trade balance with the United States thanks to the export of agricultural products, and that now the situation with peasants and the village is practically tragic. They are the subject of some humorous series and then the ingenuity and some other traits of our peasants show only in a positive light. Today they need to pay dearly for seeds and fertilizers, processing, looking at the sky, so if they pass without rain, these more enormous, without drought, without frost, then I guess they should sell something and take some money, that their sweat, their effort, their blisters are adequately rewarded, not to spill raspberries, to spread milk, to cut the cherry! That's why it's the state's fault and it's their party, which the state plays with them, a game of poker with, or rather, for many of them, a party of Russian roulette! The second question concerns this guarantee law. Mrs Dragutinović, I don't know if you've checked what I asked you about which one's "Marfin Bank" and is it the legal follower of the Cyprus-popular bank?" Ask Dinkic, he's very good at it. Ask him who Nikos Lazaridis, director of Cyprus popular bank. Ask Borka Vukic, she knows everything about phantom companies through which our money went to the expense of the Cypriot National Bank, is this the same 'Marfin National Bank,' as the legal follower of Cyprus popular bank' or 'Laiki Bank'. You can ask the SPS people at the Steering Board of the Path of Serbia, how they chose that bank to give credit to the "Serb Roads", which is necessary, that the state of Serbia today provides guarantees to them for the loan needed to pay off debts to travellers and that they could work further. Last time I presented to you a report from Dinkic's commission. Among other things, and because of this bank, if this is the bank, I'm just asking if, and its depositors were the leading tycoons in this country, and the main oligarch in this country and in his bank account, they went to the privatisation money, see the case, Delta Bank, and so on and so on. I'm asking, is this the bank, who chose it, and why is it, because associations are very unpleasant "Antexol", "Bruncort", "Vericon", all those phantoms of short companies, through which four billion dollars went, and they were in the accounts of "Cyprus popular bank"? Is that Murphy's popular bank? That's what I'm asking you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24063	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Arsen Djuric and Miroslav Petkovic. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Honorable Madam Minister, three DSS MPs have submitted an amendment to Article 8, which are added and particularly apostrophe of agencies, regulatory bodies and out-of- budget funds as users of public funds to enter the consolidated vault system. The Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Government has rejected this amendment with a reason that another member has been defined as being users of public funds and there is no need to particularly apostrophe of agencies, regulatory bodies and out-of- budget funds and that they are established by law as direct users, or agencies, of the Public Agency Act. We purposely wrote that the Treasury system should necessarily be entered by regulatory bodies, agencies and out-of- budget funds for the simple reason that no one controls these bodies. Tell me, who controls, for example, the Broadcasting Agency? What's their salary? What's their income? How is public procurement conducted, for example, in that agency? Has the Broadcasting Agency also paid how much money into the Republic of Serbia's budget? Who controls, like Rattel, like the regulatory body? Who controls the AP Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund? You know, over the past months, this fund has just been mentioned as a source of corruption and various manipulations. What about, say, chambers, various associations, pharmaceuticals, health, engineering and everything else, where the state doesn't have the right to manage, but has passed on to them public authority based on which these associations collect money and spend how they think they should spend it? Does this country have any authority to control? There isn't! You refused this amendment, with this explanation, and you didn't have that in mind. I'm absolutely sure you didn't have that in mind because it absolutely doesn't make sense for you to pass on public authority under a law that encourages funds, because, for example, an engineer can't get a license unless he joins the chamber and pays for the license and later use, and those funds that the chamber collects on the basis of public authority, no one controls how much they are spent, how much they earn from the management of the chamber, how they spend, etc. So if we want to control the collection and spending of public funds, then it has to be really transparent, that all possible users, whether they are direct beneficiaries of the budget or to obtain funds based on public authority, must be in a consolidated vault system. This refusal of amendments resembles another attempt not to end the control of budgets, or those using budgets, such as the budget of the Republic of Serbia, where the control is to be carried out by the State Auditing Institution, and we know for a year that it has passed since Prime Minister Cvetkovic's public promise that the premises have been assigned to the State Auditing Institution, which of course has not happened. You know they're sitting upstairs doing their job 40 and some auditors, plus the Council of the State Auditing Institution. Are those working conditions? They are certainly not, Mrs Dragutinovic, and this speaks of your seriousness and seriousness of this government which just wants there to be no control of the budget, budget funds, beneficiaries of the budget, and the refusal of this amendment can now lead us to the conclusion that the state, or the government, does not want to be controlled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24065	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The word is Mr. Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8 and in general the Serbian Progressive Party has submitted 40 amendments, some are amendments and tied up. My amendment relies on Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's amendment to Article 7. In my amendment, the desire was to clearly define the responsibility and, above all, to the Ministry of Finance to determine the list of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and to conduct fiscal policy in the coming period. For the Serbian Progressive Party, the finance ministry is that it will have to do its best to avoid any fiscal risks ahead. There's a lot of them. They are seen through the slow growth of the domestic economy, as well as through the slow growth of the world economy, which will undoubtedly reflect foreign direct investment. It's been very few so far, not to mention the big arrangements that are getting more and more unfavourable, which we're going to have and how we're going to talk about in this IMF review. I think that in such conditions we also have a major problem with the level of debt, above all the external debt and the possibility of financing this debt, the lack of structural reforms and institutional reforms is what has been a long-standing pain in our economy, our economic policy, and therefore this amendment wanted to highlight the importance of exclusively the Ministry of Finance and its need when it comes to the problems of macroeconomic stability in the future. I urge you, in any case, to consider this amendment once again in the voting day and to clearly define those responsible for implementing fiscal policy in the next, better times.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24067	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Arsen Djuric and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Lapcevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24068	We have also submitted an amendment to this article, which we asked for a new position to be added in Section 7. to define – that the beneficiaries of the budget funds that are mostly realised on the market in the application for the opening of the bank's accounts do not receive this open account on the blank, but that every year reports are submitted to the minister, which, based on these reports, will subsequently extend this validity of the bank's account opening permit. Again, the motive was to control public funds, i.e. funds derived from public revenues on the basis of authority. For example, the Republican Broadcasting Agency should make about 700 million to 800 million dinars a year from national television, regional, local, plus radio stations, so about 500 to 800 million dinars. This RRA is making revenue mainly on the market and may ask you to approve the opening of an account with the bank. You'll give it because it's in accordance with the law, and then the RRA can, because there's no large number of employees, because there's no control from the state, that these funds are placed on the market, that they make money from the placements of those funds, and that you don't have an insight into it or that they're being spent, and yet you still don't have an insight into how these funds are spent from an account opened in the bank. The point is that there is a control of the ministry, which is authorized by the state to control public funds. If it remained this way, it would be possible for the inflow of funds in the account not to be controlled, that it could be placed without the knowledge of the ministry, that it could be spent, misused, and that the minister, i.e. the competent ministry and the government, had no control over it. I think it would be appropriate to consider accepting such an amendment, because it would improve the entire legislative proposal and control of the use of public funds. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24069	Thank you. National MPs Milet Poscurica and Veroljub Arsic submitted together to the 9th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that it has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Mrs. Tabakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24070	Article 10 is one of the amendments to which adoption was necessary if it was to prove that this is a serious government and that it is seriously experiencing its responsibilities. Article 10 regulates the rules of investment of funds and in the text of the promoter of a minister or person who can afford money in a consolidated vault account, other than income for which it is not permitted under specific laws, may invest on a domestic or foreign financial market of money or capital, in accordance with the law and other rules. The amendment proposed that the Minister, or the Government, have the right to invest surplus funds only in the event that there is no problem with the liquidity of the budget at the same time, that there is no short-term credit agreement, whether it emits state securities of value, because it is certain that you can never make the interest you make on the funds you give someone on the deposit or as an investment to be higher than the interest you pay on the loans you take or on the issued securities of value. To bring citizens closer to the logic of our amendment: no one can give funds on savings and receive such interest, so high and attractive, that on the other hand, they can take loans and make the interest on loans lower. It means you cover your expenses with incomes. This elemental logic and the elemental responsibility towards the management of public funds had to be implemented through the adoption of this amendment. Although we are, as Parliament Club Forward, a Serbian parliamentary group whose largest number of amendments have been adopted, I am indeed, in line with that amendment to Article 7, where we have excluded the right to withdraw funds to lower levels, municipalities and other bodies, because they have other incomes and that you are rerouting them in the way that suits you, you are eventually returning credits, I find this amendment so important that it has to be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24071	Thank you. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Djuric and Milan Lapčević together submitted the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24072	The Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the DSS Group, we have tabled an amendment to Article 10 that defines the way and invests the funds of the consolidated vault account. We have suggested adding a new position of 2 to be added after Article 1 – on all invested funds, the minister is obliged to notify the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia within 15 days. Every investment and placement of funds carries a certain risk, and I sincerely hoped that this amendment would be accepted, because it is perfectly logical, that the National Assembly should be informed of where these funds are placed and under what conditions. What is surprising and somewhat offensive is the final sentence of the government's argument, which explains why the amendment is not accepted. The sentence reads: "As the finance minister is responsible for the implementation of the budget and the report delivers it to the government, there is no basis to prescribe the minister's obligation to deliver the report on the investment funds to the National Assembly. ''The National Assembly elects both the Government and the Minister and I think it has a basis to prescribe that kind of obligation, unless you want to hide where you place the funds or invest them. If you do not want then I invite you to accept this amendment, because it is not excessive but only corrects the proposed text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24073	Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24074	We have particularly highlighted this amendment as to how important it is to keep an eye on the budget, given that we have had cases for the past few years that the authorities, while they were able to do so, especially at the level of local self-government, have invested funds in financial markets. We had a situation there that those funds could make a profit, but they could make a loss. Certain local self-governments have serious long-term financial problems due to losses caused by funds being placed on financial markets. We just asked that, you know, there's profit all over the place, of course there's a risk that those funds would bring profits rather than make a loss, so before, the National Assembly would be timely informed of this guy's investments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24075	Mr. Miroslav Petkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24076	Dear Presidency, Honorable Mrs Dragutinovic, Amendment to Article 10. The bill allows you to invest money in the domestic and foreign financial markets and that's good. Of course the funds need to be invested. Mr. Rade Obradović, in principle debate through a fine example, a classic example, stated that even in football goals can be achieved and can be accepted. The DSS parliamentary group is very concerned, given how you run the country's finances, that Serbia will not be able to score as many goals as you can. That is why we have asked this amendment and for MPs to be informed within 15 days where the funds of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have been invested. We're not asking you to deliver to us where you've invested your private funds and what private accounts, but if anyone needs to discuss it, they're MPs. Indeed, my colleague Đuric cited the explanation, you seem to have forgotten who chose you and who you should report to. These are MPs when it comes to the money of all Serbian citizens, not the president of your party and the president of the state, Boris Tadic. If you think you're reporting to him, not to the MPs, then I don't think you should be sitting there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24077	The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24078	In the shortest time, I will explain my colleague Veroljub Arsic's amendment. The word is also on the investment of funds and this amendment we propose that the right to invest surplus funds is left only to the minister or person who has the authority and that this investment cannot be made at the level of local authorities and that, I repeat, the minister, only in case these surpluses are really available and there is no borrowing. Therefore, the premise that we are decentralisation by failing to manage well enough with the total financial resources should not be left through this law and in this way. Therefore, the transfer funds, as budgeted here, should be transferred to municipalities. The purposes that are allowed by the lower authorities of the budget should be realised through the execution of the appraisal and quota, but we cannot allow that freedom which does not suffer nor the seriousness of the moment in which we are as a state, nor the lack of funds which is recorded and we believe that the right of local authorities to invest in funds should be deleted from this law and members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24079	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Zankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers it legally possible, so I realize that it has become an integral part of the bill. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov and Mico Rogovic. The word has Miæo Rogovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24080	Dear colleagues, Article 14. The proposal for this law speaks of types of public income and income, and within the most important points, from 14 to 21, in this point of public income, it is said what incomes are and in point 7) of the category – other public revenues. Parliamentary Group Forwards Serbia – SNS, by modifying this member, i.e. Point 7 suggests adding sub-points within point 7) relating to interest revenue, gambling fees, privatisation incomes and other public revenues established by law. For what reason? It is necessary to specify more precisely this category, which is covered by point 7) other public revenues, because, according to this article, it is necessary to draw from this point 7 of the draft budget law each individual income and income, and in view of that finding, from this point 7 thereof, individually everything that applies to it is required. That is why we have proposed the sub-points under point 7). It is not enough that, later on, Articles 19, 20 and 21 specify more precisely what is left of public income and income, because primarily for reasons, as I said, they do not appear in the draft budget law, and we, on the basis of the same, have the right to declare ourselves, therefore, becomes an enigmous for MPs who adopt the draft budget law. In particular, I would like to stress that this amendment provides for a presentation of privatisation revenues, since they are not listed in any place collectively, although they deserve it by their weight and criteria, meaning, especially in the 2003-2009 period, as part of revenue on the budget side by this category of revenue. Of the other revenue from Article 19, which has a total of seven, only two (point 1) and point 7) have been taken over – interest incomes and gambling fees, so we believe that in no case does the provision of other public revenues burden Article 14 and contributes to the transparency of income, which is the interest of both the public and all of us MPs. The difference in transparency between you and us is that we classify this category as public revenues, not only in the category in which you classify it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24081	Thank you, Mr. Rogovic. Pursuant to Article 14 of the amendment, Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Nenad Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24082	The reason why we have submitted an amendment to Article 14(2), point 3(3) of the Bill's proposal is to implement this termological harmonisation, since the word "participation" used as a term in the bill is not a term used in our legal system. We therefore suggested that the word "share" be changed to the word "action", which is in line with the terminology adopted in the system laws that already exist, such as the Business Society Act, the Bank Act, insurance companies and investment funds. Unfortunately, the Proposer rejected this amendment with a reason that the amendment would be accepted that the amendment also proposed an additional position indicating that wording is also being carried out in other parts of the law in accordance with this amendment. You see, the Treasury has a lot of employees. You had opinions from other ministries, we had the Legislative Secretariat, we had government committees, and none of the listed institutions and individuals noticed this mistake that they would really have to see. I can't understand why this amendment isn't accepted, because if the government accepted it, I can't agree that she could only accept it if it was proposed in other provisions where the word "share"... He's not accepted. This amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24083	The amendment was essentially accepted as an amendment to the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24084	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24085	It is small to see of these six members of the government, if we can convince them of something that needs to be accepted by some amendment, the seventh, the yuppie, but the public, too, should hear what is really in this bill. Of course, you rejected all our amendments, so you denied us the right to discuss each member. I will take advantage of this amendment to point out the fundamental problems of this bill that will essentially change nothing. I would just like to remind you that, in the light of the Bill's proposal, you have stated, as a reason why it goes to the new law and what needs to be achieved, which goal should be achieved, among other things, that the state has not been able to control the use of state resources by those institutions that you have unwittingly formed for the past eight years, which are agencies, independent regulatory bodies and others. It just seems amazing that you're going with the bill, and I get the impression that you haven't had a chance to look at the Annual report on the work of the 2008 budget inspection. I must say by reviewing this report that there are really some things that are kind of nebulosis, what is all written, prescribed or found to be a violation of the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Public Procurement and other regulations which are binding on direct and indirect users of funds. But I need to draw attention to the legislator and the public that among those who violate these regulations are, for example, in regular place number 12 – the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund of Independent Activities, regular number 13 – Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. Do you know what that means? This means that today we are adopting this bill of law and the state that is the government, which has submitted this bill, informs us that a state body is breaking the law. Next, we have the Republic Reserve Directorate. Imagine, the Republic Public Defence violates the rules on the budget system, and it represents the institutions and courts of the Republic of Serbia in property disputes – an amazing thing! Then, the Republic Sports Institute, then the Municipal Crimes Authority in Sjenica. Well, who can they punish for a crime? Next, the House of Health of Rakovica, Novi Sad Trade Court. The Novi Sad Trade Court is scheduled to try for trade crimes, should be involved in administrative and accounting disputes. How can he do that if you put them on this list of those who do not respect the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, the Youth and Sports Ministry, headed by this lady who runs the ministry, who probably worked the same way while working at the Ministry of Defense. Then there is the City’s Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Mladenite, so who are they to prosecute? Then, the Republic Development Office. On regular number 57 there is BIA. BIA, please! And at number 61, the Ministry of Science of Belgrade. That's 2008 control. It's this little duke from the Meridian Bank, with 11.5 million founding capital in the bank – see what he tends to have! How can you sit with him in the same room where you're sitting, or maybe that's why you came up with these phone and electronic sessions so that you don't look at each other, so you don't communicate with each other and ask him -- well, Bozo, how is this your ministry to make you miss out? The Republic Telecommunications Agency Belgrade is also on board. Here, you see, the budget inspection controlled something that's a regulatory body. You yourself deny your reasons. Furthermore, the Institute for Health Protection of the Ministry of the Interior of Belgrade and not to read any further and not to quote. I really need to tell you that there are also the nebulous reasons that are mentioned in this report, but there are also these big reasons -- the purchase of laptops, phones, even though it's not in any appraisal, that I don't speak any further. And then you have this situation, you know, Mladjan Dinkic, somewhere here, between Miljakovci and Miljakovci, three, started on behalf of the government of a building and it's been standing for months. The workers don't come, there's no money, and the question is, is there a building permit? What did Radojko Obradović say – well, the state is building without a building permit and with what right are you chasing ordinary citizens who are barely solving the roof issue over their heads? Just to remind you that a large number of these "builders" are suspending the works, because the state owes, the state doesn't pay, as Gilas could walk around town halls and say – this is the asphalt, here's the fire escape, here's the parking lot! You don't need a building permit, you don't need anything. The question is from the point of view of budgetary inspection and budgetary control – is that in accordance with the regulations? Of course not! Because to implement the budget, there is, first of all, a plan and a programme of designed activities. Now, let me go back to what you're avoiding at all costs, and you have to say it. You know, if in several places in this bill or, to be more precise, in a few members, you have inserted some flossules such as access funds, EU development funds, then I'm just surprised you didn't put in a formulation -- special IMF funds, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, some Russian investment fund, some Chinese investment fund, some Indian investment fund. Why did you make that kind of selection? Why do you want to fight with someone? You see, you slowly but surely these two words, "European Union", as a kind of institution, put into legal norms and they become part of our legal order. And this EU is stealing from us Kosovo and Metohija! And this NATO guy is taking Kim away from us! Well, then, what do you say you won't sign, you won't admit – then where is the truth? Is that what I'm not going to do? Or is it that the EU becomes, literally, a norm? Because some people, who are likely to make some mistake in deciding what kind of amendments the SRS will be, in order to shorten this discussion, so as soon as possible this law is passed to move into that 'your Europe', they simply don't know things. We believe that this law, as you have suggested it, is completely unnecessary, because it will be inadmissible. If the government really wanted to solve this issue of dedicated use of budget funds and a general issue of public revenue and public expenditure, then you could have chosen one other time. It is simply amazing that, in the context of the direct user of budget funds, where there is a direct authorising officer, where there is an appropriate service, where there is internal control, and now you also prescribe it as internal control, as an internal audit, and if there is this kind of control in the vault and if there is one within the Ministry of Finance, also, the part that in some way carries out previous controls, before some funds are spent and placed, then the question is really asked – how is it possible that, after all these controls, the Budgetary inspection will establish any irregularities? If possible, then problems are in the government, problems are in the finance ministry, problems are with those who are direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds. That's the problem. Today, however, we in the "development of economic thought" of Mladjan Dinkic and this group that came to power with DOS have a really schizophrenic situation. The banks you installed with us in Serbia – they no longer invest in the economy but buy government securities of value. Why? Because security records are of value, because those claims are safe, the interest is a little higher than they could realize that these funds have been placed in the economy. By the way, economy doesn't work or work well, over-indebtedness is huge, indifference is huge. We now have a situation where our banks finance all citizens of the Republic of Serbia through taxes that they pay to the state, and then the state directs some of those taxes to pay what it has promised to those who bought state securities of value. So you've been able to change some sayings. One saying is, anyone who is born is dead, it's only a matter of theoretically when it will be, in 50, 60 or 70 years! In America, they had a saying - other than death, the other thing is that you have to pay taxes! In Serbia, DOS has made a new saying – it is only certain that you have to pay a banking commission! And everyone pays a banking commission -- both state and ordinary citizens, and these banks are worth several hundred million euros each year from this country! It's a similar situation with the insurance guys. You don't have to go far. It's enough to go to the municipality of Rakovica to see what's going on with the budgets. There, even, is no problem for the president of the municipality to say at the session of the Assembly – people, we are not going to vote today, to adopt the final bill for 2007 or 2008, to wait for it to pass at the city level, and then this will be easier for our people; nobody will see that we are building a 'workhouse for employees' in the municipality next to the municipality building, no one will see that they are given great money to people to make some tables in front of buildings, no one will see that money spent to sort out some entrances, no one will see money spent on some 'youth office', no one will see where money is spent for allegedly social sites at 200 acres, where people who are social cases to get locations, to make their own family homes, and they, people, poor people, have no bread – so the president of the municipalities, or someone close to him, is likely to buy it even bigger buildings, so much more. Of course, it's all European, it's all democratic, as soon as the Democratic Party heads. This operation of yours, the adoption of this law, which represents a buildup of three existing rules that are unarranged, therefore, we believe that you are not solving the issue with a new law, but only on the basis of this law you are equating the existing state of affairs, you are drowning all possible holes, and what you can see and what you can't see. So the government presents itself as a big black hole in the Republic of Serbia. She's funding banks. They care about banks, not important citizens, and believe me, every day is harder and harder to close personal and family finances from 1st to 30th to 31st in the same month. You're obviously in the way of living citizens. You don't solve their vital problems, you don't allow life to develop, you kind of circle your institutions, and there's just you. Let me remind you, from eight you came to 25 to 26,000 employees. You have this problem of yours, but the problem is that you can't figure out who's going to do it anymore, who's going to do it less. The bar's shrunk down, the crocodiles are the same with such big stomachs, so they'll start biting each other, cutting off parts of the body! The real question is, if you have a report on the budget inspection, what did you do about that report? The problem is with you, amongst you, resolve it. And when you look at all the institutions you put on this list of shame, and the BIA, and the ministries, and the funds, and the directorates, and the authorities for violations, and the prosecutions and courts, who shall we trust? How is it possible for a non-intentional spending to happen if these regulations are so good? If there is an internal system of ideas, paraphrases, signatures, signatures of solutions, to the vault – how can these things occur? It is possible because there is a feudal division at all levels of government – little to you, little to me. If you need to patch up some holes on this side, then you have to let this other one patch up some holes on the other side and there's no budget system in that logic, no legal principle, but absolute volunteerism that could cover up, hide, hide some media attractions, some media news. But it has its capacity, too. That capacity is about to end. - You're acting like a tank, but the problem is that you have a six amper tank battery.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24086	Thank you. Let me let you know we won't have a break. We'll probably be done by 6 p.m., but in any case, if that doesn't happen, in accordance with article 85 of the 4th and 5th, we'll be working until the end of the agenda, which will be at 1600 hours on the agenda, i.e. These points of the agenda. Mr. Marash Slobodan answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24087	I answered the question of my predecessor. It is true, Mr Krasic, that we now may have three representatives of the government by the MPs in this room, and it is true that the scandalous number of those budget users listed in the Budgetary Inspection Report is. But, Mr. Krassic, I'm going to read you some other enterprises that you've been keeping quiet. Mr Krasic, JP "business Space" Novi Sad, 1 January 2006 until the day of control, 297 million dinars have not been returned to the budget. JKP "Liss". These are, Mr. Krasic, companies that were under the leadership of the SRS back then. You did quote some things here. And when it comes to missing, it's important to mention what dates are, and why am I saying that? I'm talking because it's a system. I'm not saying it's the one who ran those public enterprises back then. Mistakes have been made, budget inspection has established them, solutions should be followed, but the problem is, Mrs Dragutinovic, the system. The system is to get muddy here, the system is, I'll read it to you – the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia did not provide bookkeeping. Mahoma is in all public procurement problems. The problem is that, by chance, everyone is tied up, but really, it works with everyone, and the job of the responsible authorities is to resolve it. The responsibility of the authorities is that when they get information from the budget inspection that they've gone nine inspectors and they can't work, that their salaries are so small that people go to better paid places, to respond, the finance ministry has to do it. What are we going to do after these solutions that brought in the budget inspection? Will it be done? Will those funds be recovered? The problem is, he's acting on public enterprises, funds, agencies, like someone inherited it from Mom and Dad, and that's not the case. It's property of the Republic of Serbia and all its citizens, or so it should be. When you read the failures of the ministries, at the agencies, at the Development Fund, well, that's to make a man chill. No serious state can do that! Then a fine is prescribed under your proposal for this law from 5 to 50,000 for a responsible person, and it is hundreds of millions of dinars, not to mention those two public enterprises where hundreds of millions of euros are concerned and, in that case, a responsible person can pay a fine of 5 to 50,000 dinars in accordance with the Law on Violations. Excuse me, please change that too, so that a much greater punishment may be threatened by one who is responsible for a person in one such enterprise or one such agency, or a fund or ministry, so that the responsible person never thinks of doing such a thing again. When you, yourself, read the gaps on the basis of a report of a budget inspection that is within your ministry, I believe you're getting cold, but it has to be corrected sometimes. Shall we correct this law? Hardly! We'll only make it right if we change the system. And the first thing in all of this is that the one who led NIS to be in such a minus, in 31.12.2008, and the one who made decisions when it comes to the Public Enterprise "The Roads". These are the first indicators of how responsible you are, if the people sitting on boards, the directors will be responsible for the damage they've done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24088	Thank you. Mr. Radojko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24089	I will use time as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. We talked and just now, colleagues Krasic and counterpart Maras spoke about the importance of this law. The law should regulate spending of about 45 to 50% of Serbia's GDP, otherwise total consolidated public spending. What is the significance of this law is probably speaking and dealing with this law, because at this point there are only two representatives of the ruling majority. Mr Batic, listening to what he's saying, I don't think he's part of the ruling majority, although he's sitting in the G17 plus benches, sitting in a piece that's set for G17 plus. I understand his emotional attitude towards that party, because he's always outlining them. But if you take into account that only two representatives of the ruling majority are sitting in the O.R. right now, then it is quite clear what the relationship to public finances is and what the relationship to the ongoing debate is. And as far as the laws are concerned, I'm surprised some of our amendments aren't accepted. It is also necessary to look at the imperfections of the Rules of Procedure, (seeing Mr Batic) to point to the Rules of Procedure. Let's say that the Members of the Parliament are constantly working, and that's what they're constantly pointing at, they should come to the quorum. And it's just important that they come in the morning and be declared that they're here and they don't have to be there anymore during the day. Well, that's the case with our laws, and that's the consequence of all this stuff that my colleagues have been quoting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24090	Mr. Zoran Krasic answered, but there is no basis for replication, you are not offended, you are well understood, correct, by Mr. Maraš. Mr Popovic Nenad, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24091	Dear President, it's not very pleasant to see that there are no MPs from the government, two of them sitting down, but good. That's why Mrs. Minister is here on a regular basis and we're grateful for that, really supporting, fighting, one of the few fighting in this government. About the 19th amendment, I can say that the DSS was a key institution of the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which finally created conditions for the construction of a modern state based on decentralisation of property rights. It has already been more than half a year since all the deadlines of the Constitutional Law for the harmonisation of the legal system in Serbia have expired with the highest legal act. This authority has been able to amend and pass the laws necessary to apply the Constitution, but it does not. In Europe, laws cannot be passed which imply that some other laws will be passed in the future, but are systematically accessible to legislative activity so that the effects of the rules are greatest. And what's going on? We have laws for one purpose, or one party, and that's why we haven't even changed the Foreign Investment Support Regulation because of "Fiyat," we've changed, right, and now we're changing the Information Act just because of one list, because of "Kurir". And now we're waiting for laws that may be named after their creators. The Constitution says that public property is a state property, property of an autonomous province and property of a unit of local self-government. If only you had made an effort to define what is the property of lower levels of government, then it would have made sense what is said in point 3 of point 1 of point 3 under other incomes to include the proceeds of lending, i.e. the use of immovable and mobile things in its autonomous province and units of local self-government and in the Law on assets in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, and the resources available to the authorities and organisations of territorial autonomy and local self-government. The emphasis is to say, "Is available" and not – which are in possession. It is clear that autonomous provinces as well as local self-government do not have their own property. That is why it is absolutely unacceptable, and I am surprised that this amendment has not been accepted, any prejudication of changes in existing legal solutions and the provision of sources of public revenue from assets that the AP or local self-government do not have. With this government we have all 'quasi': we have a trade agreement with the EU, which is unilaterally applied; we have regions that are, as they say, only'statistic'; we have, look, and'schegen' that will only get citizens of the first row, and the citizens of'second order' from the territory of KIM are probably not going to get white Schengen, so they declared them second-class citizens, so I guess the citizens of the first row will have the right to white Schengen; we have a Serbian car manufacturer "full" in which, unfortunately, no single bolt is from Serbia. Now we want to declare that the provinces and local self-government have property, but only in this law. Maybe one day they'll get that property. Until then, power can change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24092	Thank you. Member of the 15th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 17th amendment together. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 17 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24093	In accordance with Article 19 of which other public revenues are mentioned, seven types of other public revenue are indicated, and no revenue from privatisation is indicated. This amendment proposes showing privatisation incomes which do not explicitly state in any place in this law, although they deserve it, both by all criteria and by importance and betrayal, above all. By amendment to Article 14, we proposed that these revenues be stated already in this article, and counterpart Rogovic submitted the amendment, which lists more significant types of public income and income, both for the sake of importance and for the public's need for the National Assembly to have insight and control over the collection and spending of funds. That wasn't the case until now. Privatization revenues have been very significant revenues, especially by volume, and on the other hand, this property has been acquired by the work of all our working people for decades. The question is, why does the Government keep these revenues and the spending of these funds from citizens and the Assembly? My amendment in Article 19 suggested showing privatisation revenues, as a special item under regular number 8, in order to know specifically what these revenues are. There is no reason to hide it from citizens and the Assembly, as the government does, by placing privatisation incomes in receipts from the sale of domestic financial assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24094	National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Branko Ljiljak. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Nenad Popovic submitted to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. You're the one who answered. Here you go. Mrs. Judita Popovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24095	I applied precisely for the reason this member was designated as "funding the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces". As far as I know, the adoption of the Statutes of the AP Vojvodina is being delayed indefinitely. The law on the jurisdiction of the province of Vojvodina is also delayed, so it is strange that this Article 24 specifically refers to how the competences of autonomous provinces will be financed. I probably don't already know which way it is that laws are passed, and there's no telling how they're going to be executed and implemented. It is mainly a matter of virtual solutions, especially when a little bit is immersed in reading this article 24, which, for example, says point 1), is that, among other things, the powers of the Vojvodina are financed from the company's profit tax. If we know that companies today, at least 60% of companies are blocked as far as their accounts are concerned, the question arises – what is the original income of the AP Vojvodina. Point 2) says that part of the income would also represent income tax on citizens and income tax achieved in the territory of the autonomous province in accordance with the law. We have discussed amendments and additions to the Labour Act, where we are in fact extending a forced holiday, which is otherwise very cynically called 'forced vacation', which is essentially another explanation that this work is turning into some social giving, because people are not officially fired. However, they do not work and indeed receive minimum income. If, among other things, it is a source and their minimum profit, for God's sake, the Vojvodina will not benefit from it. Under point 3) it says "continuous administrative fees". I don't know what kind of administrative fees are due by the province of Vojvodina. In any case, we can't exactly count on some high administrative fees, when it hasn't yet defined what the powers of the AP are, or whether there is a statute at all, and when this statute will apply to the territory of the province of Vojvodina, and so on forever. We have, say, benefits for the use of goods of general interest in accordance with the law. What are those fees? I asked for an official explanation and an answer from the Minister for Environment when I spoke about the Imperial Bar and when I said that a private company abuses its right to manage this natural good, and that it simply destroys it. The answer was that 35 million dinars were foreseen by the private company to remove the damage suffered in the Imperial Bar and to transfer 25 million dinars to remove the damage. It's very interesting how then Vojvodina will benefit from this natural good, which is located in the territory of Vojvodina, if it's naturally well destroyed, and the Republic is funding to remove that damage. So, for example, we also come to the use of the immovable property owned by the province of Vojvodina, or local self-government. And they should be the source of income. In this regard, I could ask exactly again the question – what are the properties owned by the AP, or local self-government, when the 1995 law on assets owned by the Republic of Serbia is still in force. Otherwise, according to this new regulation and spatial planning law, users of the provinces and local self-government on construction land that is owned automatically pass into public property. So, Vojvodina won't have a very good source of income either. So virtual laws for some reality are really not the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24096	Anyone else want a word? People's MP, Free Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24097	Thank you. Mrs Dragutinović, I have to remind you of the days in which we tried to remember several times, given that it is the law on the budget system, it is assumed that the budget system is meant to be filled, the budget is filled with tax collection, or tax payments – then, Mrs Dragutinović, when you and I were talking, since the stenogram is now in my hands, I told you that all these years NIS is making a profit, so I told you that the unscheduled profits were nine billion dinars, so I told you that NIS was 20 places away from 500 of the most successful companies per profit in October 2008, so I told you that NIS had handed over the final bill in which it was shown profits, and that after that the intervention of the new owner was given the deadline to re-write the financial report for 2008. You were silent, so I answered again, so I asked you to come out and say something about it, so you kept your mouth shut. So I went out for the third time, and it's all going well here, so I said that the silence that comes from your side could one day be interrupted by noise under your window, which you've looked at astoundingly. So, I guess for the third time, when you couldn't stand what I was saying, you answered the word and said, "I have to admit, Mr. Marash, I'm not used to answering the question when the one asking knows the answers. I thought I answered that question. Let me repeat, you're asking me if what you're saying is true about showing... '"
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24098	Two minutes, MP, the time available has been used.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24099	I'm sorry, I still have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24100	One minute as representative of the parliamentary group and one minute from the parliamentary group. It's the time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24101	So I don't have time anymore?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24102	Thank you. Does the Minister want a word? It was recorded in the electronic system that you were answering. Does anyone else want a word? Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On the basis of Article 28 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? In the event that the proposer's representative accepts the amendment, then he would become an integral part of the bill's proposal, so that I should ask Prime Minister Diana Dragutinovic, does he accept, on behalf of the amendment promoter, the amendment to Article 28 that was submitted by the Finance Committee? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24103	I wanted to finally say which amendments I accept proposed by the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24104	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24105	I will spend two minutes of the time authorized for this item of the agenda to explain the adopted amendment, although it is a rule that it is not spoken of, because I consider this to be the only one of all the amendments that really means some essential newspaper, in terms of the government's obligation to specify precisely what sources of funding are individually planned to cover the budget deficit. Why is that essential? Because this has not been the case so far, the deficit cover sources have shown together both the aggregate and privatisation revenues and the securities of values and loans and the financial assets of the budget. In the same way that income is shown individually, as expenditure is expressed individually in the budget, as a obligation for all of us to respect them and to make sure that they are realised, in the same way, means to share the responsibility equally, the government is obliged to plan, and for the planning category to bear no penalty, but given how much state plans to issue securities of value, to borrow loans or, expected donations, are data that are relevant to all other participants participating in the implementation of the budget. I'm talking business, businesses, organisations that participate in the financial market, citizens and everything else. I repeat, this is the only essential amendment that changes the best in this bill, and I thank Mrs. Minister for adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24106	National MPs Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the 28th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24107	Dear Mrs Dragutinović, I appeal to you to accept this DSS amendment, and I have the impression that Mr Slobodan Ilic has given his opinion, and as far as he is aware of this matter, we saw when we adopted the Deposit Insurance Act. In Article 28, we proposed that the 'own revenue of budget beneficiaries' be introduced as the ninth point. We believe that it is necessary, they already exist in Article 22, that this should also stand in this law in the general part of the budget. It's obvious that it just means that you don't want complete control, but you're creating an illusion that it exists. You have accepted a series of DSS amendments, and we believe that the least problem is to accept this amendment, in order for this to be fully clearly defined in Article 28. It's a bill of law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24108	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24109	The budget law defines an acceptable level of deficits which will not violate macroeconomic stability and achieve economic development objectives. For this year, it was 3% of GDP or about 70 billion dinars. This means that any excess of the deficit level would represent the taking of uncontrollable risks by those responsible for the implementation of the budget. If it's July, and if it's known that the deficit is already over 60 billion dinars, does it need any more information to conclude that budget execution should already be suspended? Since it's in Article 30. The draft law defines the course of action in the event of a deficit or surplus being reached is necessary to define and conduct it in the event of an overrun in the course of budget implementation. The current situation in our public finances, where the deficit has already been deepened by more than 30 billion dinars, suggests that we need these provisions on conduct in the event of an overrun. The provisions of Article 62, which also calls for this amendment amendments, directly regulate the conduct of those responsible in the event of an excess of the planned level of deficit, in the form of suspension of the commitment, extension of the agreed payment deadlines, termination of authorisation for the conclusion of new contracts and the suspension of the use of quotas. This ensures that, on the basis of the inflows made, there is a balance in the implementation of the budget. It was also the meaning of this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24110	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24111	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The substance of this amendment is that the process of preparing and adopting budgets and financial plans for compulsory social security is implemented according to the budget calendar and we believe that it is necessary to move the deadlines backwards in the budget calendar, in order to ensure timely implementation of the envisaged procedures. This proposal is in line with the practice that applies in most European countries. I will remind Mrs Dragutinovic of what she said in the exposé when she explained this law in principle. In the exposé, Mrs Dragutinovic stressed that this law was done on the basis of international standards. International standards know some other calendars. In particular, when we talk about international standards, in the most developed countries, the calendar for the adoption of budget laws is, somewhere, October of the month, no later than 15 November of the current year, for the following year. No wonder this is happening to us, though, because we're mostly breaking deadlines. I will remind you, just that the 2009 budget, although it was an obligation to deliver the draft budget by 1 November, was only delivered to the Assembly on 8 December to adopt the budget only at the end of 2008, the last day of December. They're facts, so we don't talk about the final bill. The law requires that the 1.7 report be delivered, or the final account, and you delivered it on July 6th. Obviously, the rules that apply in more developed countries don't apply here, we're trying to shorten these deadlines as well. But no wonder, you're full of Europe's mouth. But you don't respect calendars, you don't respect what the law obliges you to. When deadlines are not respected, Madam Minister, it is no wonder they are not respected and executed. I repeat, once again, because you probably didn't hear me, when I say no deadlines, it's no wonder you don't respect them or execute them. Madam Minister, you think it's funny, you find a lot of things funny, and the people suffer. Folks, let me tell you, he's crying. On one plastic case, I'm going to explain to you exactly what's going on with agriculture and farmers. During the principle debate on the agriculture law, I warned Minister Dragin not to carry out obligations related to the delivery of anti-building missiles. At that time, Mr. Minister deceived the Assembly and gave information here that anti-building missiles had been produced, in a quantity of 4,850 pieces. The budget envisioned 345 million for the purchase of anti-building missiles, but by budget rebalance you changed that item to 242 million. You have saved on what was most needed for citizens, or farmers, and I will remind you that Serbia has 800,000 agricultural households and 57. 1,000 square miles of farmland. Madam Minister, only 2,300 anti-building missiles have been purchased to spend 1,770 anti-urban missiles at the time of the biggest disasters on July 7th and 8th. In two days, 1,770 anti-urban missiles have been spent! I'm asking here -- why are we treating agriculture and farmers like this, and it's a general finding, that it's a strategic branch and a branch that only brought surplus to this country?- I'm sorry. On that day, when these elemental disasters, when many of the anti-building stations could not act, there were huge damages. I'm just gonna remind you of the Kocelev municipality. In the municipality of Koceljeva, 250,000 fruits were damaged in 20 minutes, most plums, 200 hectares of raspberries, 1,500 hectares of wheat planted area, 300 hectares of corn. Major damage was then suffered by the Moravisky, the Shumadian and Rasinski County. The damages are huge and amounts, only for the municipality of Koceljev about 350 million dinars, and you budgeted 242 million for anti-urban missiles. The fact is that you don't take care of the citizens of Serbia, that you have a smile whenever you answer questions, and these are situations where you have to feel sorry for those people who put so much effort and work to help themselves above all else, as well as the citizens of Serbia. The fact is, they don't trust you anymore, they're terrified of 52. Thousands of acres of earth, looking up to the sky, and the only salvation they see in the sky. There's something else tragic here, your coalition partner, Madam Minister, they obviously know everything about the budget system. There is not a single G17 MP for the entire duration of the debate in detail on this budget law. Do you know why? Because they've developed a system to spend money from the budget! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24112	The remaining time available for the DSS Parliamentary Group is six minutes and 20 seconds. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24113	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, article 32 defines the content of the material the Government provides to the National Assembly. The bill said it was a memorandum, a draft budget law, a proposal for decisions to give consent to financial plans for compulsory social security organisations and financial plans of mandatory social security organisations. I have proposed an amendment that is precisely in the spirit of what you have said in terms of the law, the need to control state resources more fully and the need for the National Assembly, the citizens of Serbia, and you as a ministry, to have insight into the full cost of state money. When a ministry delivers budget proposals based on binding instructions, then these proposals should contain plans for next year. Finally, this bill opens up the possibility of going to three-year budget planning. If we're gonna know how we spend our resources two years in advance, how are we not gonna know how we're gonna spend next year? I suggested that the member of the law be complemented by the draft laws necessary to implement the budget. That was also in the law that we're changing now. I don't see any reason to erase it. Also, I think there should be a program to sell state financial and non-financial assets for next year, and these plans have to exist at least a year ahead. I also suggested that the component of the budget be the draft procurement with an explanation. I don't see any reason why some of the key procurements aren't part of the budget, because they have to be planned in advance, as we come to all those items differently, or it's not possible that we all need to be afraid together that none of those major items in the budget are supported by this kind of data. If that's true, then it's a pretty worrying thing. The proposal for public procurement, a proposal to sell state financial and non-financial assets, of course, also applies to local self-government, should be an integral part of the budget. It's the only way we're gonna avoid all sorts of things that we're witnessing from day to day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24114	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Colic and Zoran Antić. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24115	Thank you. Article 34 defines what should be contained in the Budget Memorandum. Of course, it goes back to the Memorandum, two years ahead. The memorandum on the budget on economic policy is an extremely important act that should allow us to plan and project both for the coming year and for the years ahead. Of course, I'm going to point out once again the lack of funds for the local self-government transfer. It has to be an integral part of the Memorandum. National MPs, representatives of local self-government must have a clear insight into the resources, but I suggest that the content of the Memorandum be further expanded, to add two items, 11 and 12, again refers to the intended assets, where the component of the Memorandum should be entered and predicting changes in state property, property of local self-government, as well as government debt, debt of local authorities and public debt. We've pointed out here many times how important total debt is. Every day we have some new borrowings. It's supposed to be an integral part of the Memorandum. In particular, attention must be paid to the debt created by local self-government, as depending on the way it comes to the debt of local self-government, we have come to the situation that there are local self-governments in Serbia who are in charge of the level of their budget. In view of the fact that most of the expenditure in the budgets of local self-government is expenditure on salaries and certain mandatory expenditures, it is clear that these municipalities cannot repay the obligations they are in charge of for the next 20 and more years. I know at least a few municipalities that have so many duties. It then creates serious problems for further management of these municipalities. Also, I think there should be a global review of budget commitments in the Memorandum, so we know what's coming for us in the coming years. Everything we take, as an obligation, that we will pay for one moment, should be in the Memorandum. If we had discussed this in the congregation, we would not have had a situation, as we read a few days ago, that the Property Directorate had alienated 278 apartments at the price of 12 to 69,000 dinars per square metre. There is no reason for MPs to read about it in the paper, it should be an integral part of all these important documents on both incomes and expenditures, as well as state property. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24116	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Radojko Obradovic tabled an amendment proposing that the post-member 35a be added. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24117	This is a set of three amendments that actually represent a single continent because they need to complete that the budget content, i.e. the memorandum, is complete and that allows us to more clearly and transparently control how state resources are spent. Article 35a should be added as a member, which actually defines what the procurement plan is. The procurement plan should cover basic resources for the operation of direct budget users, namely: buildings, means of transport, information equipment and services, other equipment, land, natural resources and other basic resources. With a plan like that, what we have in the budget inspection reports wouldn't happen. When you look closely at what you have provided, one of the independent agencies damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia in 2007 by 69 million and the AP Vojvodina budget by a billion and 411 million, due to the payment of the interest-free advance to a private company for renting business premises for 55.8 million. The agency paid almost a million euros for the lease of a certain business space, and 14 million and 800,000 dinars invested in fixed assets, premises, without the right to take this investment into account at all when reducing the lease. If this is how independent agencies operate, and this is how they treat state money, a billion and 400 is much more than what the loan you proposed a few days ago would have been to fill the deficit in the budget, and if it were an integral part of it, or if we were to discuss these things here in a transparent manner when the budget was adopted, then the budget inspection would certainly have a lot less to do, and there would be a lot less pages in these reports than we have today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24118	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Mašić and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24119	Madam Vice-President, Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mrs Tabakovic and I have submitted an amendment to a member who regulates the establishment, in fact, the draft budget and the draft decision to give consent to the financial plans of the organisation of compulsory social security and delivery to the National Assembly, i.e. the Assembly of Local Self-Government, and to add, in Article 42 following Article 4, which should read: ''If the Government does not deliver to the National Assembly a draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, together with the revised Memorandum, proposals for granting consent to the financial plans of the organisation for compulsory social security and financial plans of mandatory social security organisations, temporary financing is carried out in time of the longest three months of the fiscal year. ''We wanted here first to specify how long the time period may be temporary financing, and that is why it is in our view that Article 46, which regulates fiscal years and temporary financing, in the last position of this member, gives us the possibility that temporary funding can be extended for another three months, so that it takes a total of six months, essentially half of the fiscal year, to be temporary financing, which I think is completely incomplete and for all budget users would bring an extremely difficult situation. In essence, we wanted this member to clearly determine and specify the government's responsibility as a budget promoter, to respect the budget calendar, which is otherwise regulated by Article 31 and it is decitable that the Government has an obligation to deliver to the National Assembly a draft budget law, because otherwise it would be called into question the implementation of budgets and transactions to be carried out by budgetary users, as well as that, in essence, the Government must have a certain obligation and responsibility, and not only that it sets deadlines, imposes penalties for non-compliance with the deadlines of other participants in the adoption of the budget. In fact, this would significantly strengthen the government's commitment and responsibility and would ultimately put budget users in a better position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24120	Time at the disposal of the Prosperity Group, Serbia is 15 minutes and 30 seconds. The word is Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24121	I'm going to use the time of the mandated promoter, and I'm going to try to keep a normal tone, a decent tone. But I'm going to have to call the public to listen carefully to the reasons for refusing this amendment, to see if the public still has a hearing about the government's responsibility that wants to lead this country. The whole budget system law is focused mostly on budgeting. If this law provides for penalties for all those who do not do some part of the work in the planning, adoption and implementation of the budget, and does not leave for themselves such a measure of responsibility, the question arises – what is this law for? We asked the government to bear responsibility if it did not respect its own deadline, November 1st, for the submission of the National Assembly of Budget Law Bills. In an explanation of the Government, believe it or not, it says: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that if the Government does not submit a draft budget law to the National Assembly by 1 November, the temporary financing of the first month of the fiscal year is carried out, so by accepting this amendment, it would create an opportunity to deny the right of the National Assembly to adopt the budget. '"What can she adopt if the government doesn't send her a proposal? This is the elemental logic that is being questioned. This isn't my anger, so I said I'd keep a decent and normal tone. I can't understand that you really think that this is something that you need to normally shut up and let us pass the law, that everyone has some obligations other than the government, that within the deadline she gave herself, she delivers a draft budget bill to the National Assembly to adopt it. Why doesn't he agree to the deadline? Because he knows in advance he won't be able to do it. Why didn't she extend that deadline? What are all the other deadlines and all the other criminal penalties, the depriving of money, if the government itself, which should set an example for everyone else, does not respect that deadline? I really think that if any amendments were to be adopted then this one – that the government respects its deadline, and the penalty for that is the temporary financing that is the deadline. No one prevents the government from coming out immediately in January with a draft budget to adopt it, and to suspend this temporary funding.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24122	The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Đuric and Milos Radulovic together submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24123	Dear Mrs Dragutinovic, not only did you violate the Law on the Budgetary System, but you will also violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of this bill. Namely, in Article 49. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 11, states that the National Assembly adopts the budget and final account on the government's proposal. Given the way it stands in Article 44, as far as I understand it, we won't have to touch the maximum deficit, we won't be able to touch the surplus, then it turns out that the RS government will adopt the budget for next year at its session. Maybe you'll go further than that. You'll probably be adopting budget rebalancing, then, at the government's phone session. After all, we're not dealing with anything else here when it comes to you, since we're operating on system three, so one -- adopt budget, then make the wrong assessment, after three months we're going to rebalance, and then it's wrong again, then it's going back to rebalance, then another rebalance, and then it's going back to budget. Let us once do this job right, why the citizens of Serbia pay us and why we're here, do this job in one quality way, not let you play with all of us and your wrong judgments that won't take us anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24124	Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Arsen Đuric and Miroslav Petkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24125	The President-in-Office, we have submitted an amendment to Article 46 which we have specified that temporary funding in exceptional situations is not limited to only three months, or, exceptionally, three more, simply, because practice has taught us that these situations can happen – namely, two years ago you know that there have been problems with the formation of the Government, so there may be some other circumstances that can cause no budget to be adopted on time and that temporary financing is extended and beyond these possible six months, and then we do not have a defined situation in the budget system, then what do we do in such a situation? We specified that if such a thing were to happen, the old budget would be valid, i.e. that it could be spent on a monthly basis up to one dozen previous budgets, and that would practically iron out any possible situation when the budget was not adopted on time. Your explanation is that it was possible until 2002, but that some local self-governments have been on temporary funding for several years, it is absolutely not relevant, because there is simply a legal basis for local self-government that they have to bring budgets in time. Therefore, if the budget of local self-government is not brought in in time, it will be dissolved. Why don't we stay in this provision to define these situations when the budget isn't made in time, to know how money is spent and how the state will function after the six months that have been defined in the budget system? I think there's some real reason for this amendment to be accepted, and that's why I'm asking you to think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24126	We will return to Article 46, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Maksimovic and Milan Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24127	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of Parliament's Forwards to Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to Article 46 concerning temporary financing. The amendment stipulates that the following part of item 5 is deleted: “by the fact that the expenditure allocated in the previous year per species and purposes does not constitute a restriction except for the payment of pension and disability insurance rights”.... By deleting this part of the text the practical position 5 of Article 46 would read: ‘The temporary financing, in terms of the item 4 of this article, takes place up to a quarter of the amount of planned expenditure in the act on the budget of the previous fiscal year, which is carried out up to the level of expenditure incurred in the last quarter of the previous year. “ In the rejection of the amendments, the Government, not to read the whole explanation, says – it is rejected, among other things, that the expenditure for which there is a commitment cannot be implemented during the temporary financing period, and as a kind of expenditure was not an obligation during the same period of the previous fiscal year. The essence of this amendment is that it should be adopted because the government that set its own budget calendar should respect that budget calendar, although it would give itself this kind of a comfortable situation so that it can freely dispose of the budget in these conditions of temporary financing, the question arises, when it has such a comfortable situation, how much will it work or perhaps answer it not to respect the deadlines in that budget calendar? So, not only this amendment, but my colleagues' amendments should, in fact, be taken to the right extent that the government is not given too much space not to respect the budget calendar in the conditions of temporary funding. That is why these amendments should be adopted, to be in some way limiting factors to respect the government's budget calendar. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24128	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24129	Would you just tell me how much time I have left as an authorized promoter?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24130	The time available, as an authorised representative, is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24131	To justify the justified absence of a colleague, Saša Maksimovic, and to add Professor Knezevic's explanation, in favour of the surprise why this amendment was not adopted, the argument given by the government. We are asking, when temporary funding is already taking place, this framework, a tight framework, which should therefore exist, as tight and restrictive, and to force the government to create conditions and bring in a regular budget, that there is no deviation from the already realised budget payments. Although the government has stated in the law that the only exception to the cost of disbursement of pension and disability insurance is that if an amendment is accepted, it could be impossible to carry out the expenditure for which there is an obligation, for example, elections. The peak of hypocrisy, that temporary funding should not be tied to already executed items of the budget, is – because if elections are, they have no place to finance. Why didn't you list this exception as this, that this exception is the rights of pension and disability insurance and, for example, elections that will, not by your decision, be called, but will be challenged, inevitable, or in what case may arise. I think this amendment should have been adopted, because if the government has no restrictions, it will not bother to shorten the time of temporary financing, nor to respect the law of the prescribed obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24132	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Slobodan Maras, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Free Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24133	I've already spoken on this subject in my first address. I find it extremely irresponsible to predict a six-month period for temporary funding. If the government is unable to bring the budget by March 31st, the government must fall. There was a chance, we saw, I repeat again, that the previous two budgets were brought in, at the last minute, at midnight. And the most dangerous are these transitional periods, transitional governments, governments in resignation and other miracles. To get back to what, Mrs. Dragutinovic, I have to get an answer for. I'll quote you again: "I'd like to tell you next. Everything you said was true. I can't swear by a single number, because I didn't see the exact number relating to the 2008 NIS profits, but the NIS definitely made a profit, according to our methodology, or international accounting standards. I don't know. Also, you know very well, it is also true that the entire profit, the Shareholders' Assembly, has decided that the entire profit practically belongs to the Republic of Serbia's budget. We were counting on that amount. That was our revenue side. What I've heard is that there's some element, some member of the contract that suggests we couldn't do something like that. But when I read that contract, I'm an economist, and I'm not a lawyer, that's what they were doing, not following up on that contract. I've given legal services. I'm questioning what they've changed. That's what they're doing right now. Anyway, it's all true, and NIS is making a profit all these years. It is customary to transfer 50% to the Serbian budget. This was all done by the new owner without the consent of the Ministry of Finance. For all the things you asked, so you knew the answer, I guess you knew I couldn't agree on that." Why am I reading this to you? Did I tell you before, 2002? Year – profit 6.1 billion, 2003 – 6.6 billion, 2004 – 2.4 billion, etc. Basically, the point is -- as long as Serbia is 10% owner of the NIS, it is not possible for a financial report to surrender without the government's consent, i.e. the ministry. You can't submit a financial report without your consent.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24134	Two minutes. People's MP, time at your disposal has been used, thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24135	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Forward Serbia – SNS, I have submitted an amendment to delete the views of 10 and 11 in article 46, because a member of 46 who regulates temporary financing, the views of the 10th and 11 in the government's proposal read: 'Extremely, the period of temporary financing can be extended by another three months, so that a total of six months, if the budget is not passed until March 15th of the current financial year. The temporary financing period of January-June for the scope and expenditure schedules shall be subject to the limitation set out in Article 5(5) of this Article in proportion to the period of temporary financing. The provisions of Article 1-5 and Article 10 of this Article shall apply accordingly to the financing of plans of the organisation for compulsory social security. ''It is clear that if the government is unable to ensure, within three months, the adoption of this draft budget law, there are no exceptions that need to ensure its survival. It's quite clear, what needs to be an exception, becomes a rule, we've seen adoption and the previous two budgets. Here we have an interesting argument from the government, on the half, that sets out several reasons why they foresee such a solution, so they say – both political responsibility and potential risk of jeopardising the financing of the Constitution and the law of jurisdiction. It is clear that political responsibility should be with the citizens of Serbia. Such a bad government, which cannot make the budget available within the deadlines, should resign. Only here can I accept one explanation where the elections are mentioned to be held in January. I think the government is finally aware of the economic and social situation in which Serbian citizens have brought it and can no longer be allowed, nor is there room for the blackmailing capacity of some small parties who blackmail the government and the ruling majority, so it is clear, I say, I can accept if the government is aware that elections must finally be called and held in January 2010. So we can accept this argument, and everything else simply doesn't exist, no other explanation or any suggestions that we would tolerate to extend these deadlines for another three months. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24136	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become part of the draft law. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24137	It doesn't worry, much, whether I'm going to be sick of someone because I get this many times, because I find this law so important that I'll actually get back to you whenever we have a moment of time, trying to improve what was good in my mind, but I wouldn't say it was done like that. The amendment to Article 48 requires an assessment of the financial effects that any law or regulation which is in the power of the Assembly will have on the adoption of an impact assessment on the budget and the consequences it can carry out. The government has now, in this proverbial imagination, rejected this amendment with an explanation – that it is already contained in a member of the law, in paragraph 1, where it writes – that the reasoning of the laws or other rules delivered to the Government or to the competent executive body for the purpose of establishing the proposal, and now goes between two commas, "or adoption" must contain an assessment of the financial effects, as if in the adoption process, in that word "or adoption" it contains an obligation to deliver fully accurately established commitments that will carry out the assessment of the financial effects. The extra head never hurt, from the extra formulation that makes you a smaller job. So, the amendment required that there be a literal obligation for the interpretation of the law to be an integral part of the proposal to be submitted to the National Assembly, but that it should not have all the elements that predict the positions of 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the rest of the law that regulate this. Even, we didn't want you to provide us with a complete explanation, but only what you consider important enough for this Assembly which in reverse order of things as you imagined should serve the Government, not the people – both the Government and the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24138	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so this amendment has become part of the draft law. The 55th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24139	The Honorable Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, counterpart Veroljub Arsic and I, on behalf of the Prosperity Group, have submitted an amendment to Article 55. Proposal for a law on the budgetary system. With the amendment, we propose erasing item 3 because we believe that Article 3, of this article, represents another one in a series of unnecessary exceptions, which reads as follows: "Extremely, the minister may authorise the user of Article 1 of this article to open a foreign exchange account with an authorised payment bank which cannot be executed through the National Bank of Serbia, if this requires the specificity of the business of that user." If the position of Article 1 of the 55th states that the beneficiary of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the beneficiary of the mandatory social security organisation and the budget of the local government, as well as the other beneficiary of the public funds included in the consolidated account system of the vault, can have a foreign exchange account only with the National Bank of Serbia, why make exceptions and give the Minister too much authority? What are the specific jobs that cannot be done through the National Bank of Serbia, and which can be done through other banks? The bill has too many shortcomings, as well as exceptions to which the minister is placed above the law, which in our opinion is unacceptable. With such a bill, as is before us, we do not need the law at all, because there is a minister who has much greater powers than those who belong to him – and I suggest you adopt this amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24140	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24141	I'll use those eight minutes for one minute. For people who understand foreign trade payments, in the power of the National Bank, in the power of business banks, the position of this member will certainly be meaningless, and the amendment that we have submitted, wishing to delete this exception, will indeed be justified. I just want to remind the public that this kind of exception in the law was established precisely for reasons – that the minister's discretion can be used to satisfy the appetite of one of the coalition partners. I'm convinced the Minister doesn't want to have exceptions like this. I am convinced that in this exception there is a demand for those who are not here today to openly defend their rights to the use of money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24142	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Not registered in the command panel. It's easier to go with a card and I'm asking you to put a parliamentary card in the MP's unit and register like that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24143	I apologize to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 56 above all to draw the attention of both the Minister and the Government and the general public – that the deadlines and conditions of payment today seem to me, killing the Serbian economy. Not only do big trade chains blackmail manufacturers and put them in a situation, I'd say often and unexplainable, not to pay their deadlines for six months, so, still, to knock down their prices and actually work below every level of normal profit, but so does the government. The republican government, republican institutions, as well as local self-government throughout Serbia, is doing the same. So, the fact is that huge crafts capital is now literally moving into trading chains, it's in the government, with local self-government, with republican institutions, that goods and services are ordered and paid months back. You have even drastic examples in the Pomorava County where you don't pay for years of work, and that there are very large interest rates going on and that these interest rates are ultimately paid by citizens and that, on the one hand, you lose and the economy, and on the other hand, of course, citizens themselves, because services and goods pay significantly more expensive. The only person who wins is political oligarchy, because it can recite those who are obedient, "reasonable". I think by adopting this amendment, at least local self-government wouldn't be able to, in a situation where it determines conditions, deadlines, and that it would take much more to devote itself to the future, if we wanted to preserve at least a part of our economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24144	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24145	Madam Chairman, with this amendment, we wanted to point out that not every new bill has to be a complete change to the existing law and practice. At times, laws should be passed in accordance with what has proved useful in the practice of previous laws. The funds reserved were good practice in the budget system because they allowed planning of spending over a long period of time. If you cancel them, and this proposal abolishes them, many payments will not be made in the most economical way before the deadline. That is why we have proposed an amendment, which says: 'Reserved financial resources remaining in the consolidated vault account at the end of the fiscal year, are being held back for payment of commitments reserved in the next fiscal year, unless the obligation is annulled or becomes invalid. ''The abandonment of such a provision which was otherwise an integral part of the current Budgetary System Act, Article 36(4), would have led to pressure on budgeting users to implement their financial plans, but also to accelerated spending of funds that are not always justified in the current year. We know these cases. This existed earlier in other countries in Europe, in particular, that budget users must spend all their resources by the end of the year and then we have November and December when these funds are spent intensively. If these reserves are abolished, those funds will be responsible for spending will seek to actually be spent, even at the cost of paying within shorter periods than those that could be realised in market relations. If he has a chance to pay something within six months, if he goes through it next year, he will say – I will not, although it would be useful for the state, but will accept any conditions that will be able to achieve it that way. Just to say one more thing, the practice of the most developed countries in the EU is that sometimes there is a budget for a five-year period and that many projects are funded after several years, that the funds are collected in some dedicated accounts for several years before they are spent, or before the project is launched. All of this in a certain way represents this reservation of funds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24146	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24147	Given that our amendments have been rejected, we are only able to appear in a slow manner, to draw attention to some solutions that are bad and to indicate what practice is. For the sake of the public, it must be known that this bill was created by the merger of two laws, the existing Law on the Budgetary System, and I must draw attention that when this law was passed, the promoter of this law was Bozidar Djelic, he said it was a modern, European law, with European standards, that it was a law on long routes that would show everything very precisely, complete public spending, that there would be no possibility of unintended use due to internal mechanisms of internal, well, external controls. All these praises simply fell after a year and a half, when it began to break down the bill. It's no shame she started decomposing that law, because he was basically bad. Of course, whoever made those changes was the blood enemy of Mladjan Dinkic. When he came to the post of finance minister, he wanted to sort it out a little bit, make it more dedicated to Europe than maybe Djelic. The second law to be compiled in this bill is a law that survived all possible turbulence of the Doss regime, a Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, which was passed in 1991 when the public income and public expenditure system was in line with the provisions of the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the good part, the law is now prescribed. These are, above all, provisions that define what incomes are, what expenses are, and which regulations are regulated, regulated, and prescribed. From the solution offered by this law on public income and public expenditure, no matter how much you wanted, you couldn't give up and that might be the best part of this bill. What makes a kind of confusion is – why didn't you take advantage of the opportunity when you passed a law like this, and why didn't you apply the principle of it being an omnibus law, that it also contains in itself what is now prescribed by the Law on the financing of local self-government? I would remind you of a few details that you have failed to resolve, nor will you solve them with this law. First and foremost, it's not clear who's making the budget. By the logic of things, we know that the Republic has a budget, we know that the AP has a budget, we know that the units of local self-government have their own budgets, which is the city, the city of Belgrade and the municipalities. However, we also have urban municipalities. Do they make budgets, too? According to this current concept of yours, they're also making budgets. According to your current concept of local self-government, especially what is happening in the city of Belgrade, it is now a city municipality that does not have the status of a unit of local self-government in the obligation to make statutes, and until one year ago it was decisions on an internal organisation. It won't even be clear who's bringing it or who's obliged to come up with a business plan and who's obliged to come up with a financial plan. It is difficult to classify on the basis of this bill and make a final list to know who all direct beneficiaries of the budget, who are indirect beneficiaries of the budget. All that remains unspeakable. With regard to spending control, we will also have budgetary inspection and dispersion vaults, depending on the level of government. When planning funds and planning, we will have these medium-term, short-term plans again, we will have a memorandum, we will have many irregularities, and we will again have the practice that in the budget of some units of local self-government there are certain classifications and appraisals, and after a year and a half when the report and the final account are seen, that there is then an incomparably greater number of economic classifications, that the funds have been emigrated for various purposes, various needs and that the political contract of those involved in the exercise of power. That part of the law doesn't work out. He simply can't solve it, since that part of the political agreement is above any legal norm. Now I'm going to show you on one case how complicated this can be, needlessly complicated, but very painful for an individual. Take the situation that someone was employed in the local community as a secretary – he was in a working relationship, he was getting paid, there was a change of government at the level of the local community, they kicked that man out so he wouldn't be in a working relationship anymore, and he started a work dispute, the work dispute lasted ten years. These days, he gets a judicial verdict, secures an enforcement clause, goes into enforcement proceedings before a court and has a problem naming a debtor. Meanwhile, the local community has lost its subjectivity, people are no longer elected in the direct elections, set up a municipally larger or municipal assembly, anyway. The jobs have been lifted, and there's a local community account to fill three holes in a street somewhere. A man's right, there's nowhere to charge his court ruling confirmed a cash claim from a working relationship. And then we get to the point where we apply this member to whom this amendment applies, and then we see that there is a limit when forced execution is done, forced payment from the payment accounts of the beneficiaries of the budget, that it can only be 50%. And then the question arises – what is the judgment, what is the order among the beneficiaries of the budget? It's all formal-legal, but what's worth it. An individual can't make his claim. It is a similar situation with those who enter a kind of adventure to conclude a contract with one of the beneficiaries of the budget, and under that contract they undertake to build, build, deliver some goods and then come into a situation where that partner, that legal person, cannot collect his claim from the state for months. The state then criticises market participants for failing to comply with their obligations, and courts also appear where market participants via the court make some claim. Then we get to a vicious chain, the chain starts and ends up with the state, no matter what aggregate state, with the government, the ministries, some lower bodies of the government that owe. And then there's the question. Who's giving the lectures here? Citizens are asked to obey the law. If he does not obey, he will be punished. The state is not asked to be more precise than the authorities, to ask those who exercise power for nothing, because they have the exclusive right to put their hands on the tap, open the water, that means they create life! It's up to them. Probably over 60% of all business activities today are, in some ways, closely linked to government and state. So, the irresponsible government is embarrassing the state, the state cannot fulfill its functions, so the question is, how long, which is the degree of certainty, which is the degree of security. In addition, judicial protection and protection by other authorities are guaranteed, and then we have the opportunity to read that these authorities do not comply with the law of the prescribed obligation, starting with those concerning enrollment through those who are found to have no accounting and accounting documentation to which justice is spent. There, that problem cannot solve this bill. He can't solve it, because they didn't even understand that law. Now I would draw attention to something that is affecting the system of funding local self-government, and of course the Republic and the Autonomous provinces and what is the revenue of the budget, which is public revenue. It's a compensation for the use of goods of general interest. If we had had the opportunity to explain our amendments, I would have asked to delete the extension of this sentence – in accordance with the law. It would be much better if all of these percentages that express the involvement of local self-government units, autonomous provinces and republics in some kind of public income, expressed in this law, to put it all here. Why? Because we're coming into a situation where local self-government that has some natural wealth, whether it's Dunav, Drina, Mine, some other object or some territory where it's exploited, depends practically on some who are in power whether they're going to get what's rightfully theirs. There's really a paradoxical situation going on that's why some place in the developmental helmet, like Kladov, like Little Zvornik, Love, don't order any further or any other place, maybe I've misjudged this in the appointment. The point is that the unit of local self-government on whose territory is being exploited and subject to this obligation to pay compensation if it is to depend on the government of the Republic of Serbia, then you know for yourself that it comes first as a priority, political resemblance, political membership, the attitude of forces in local self-government, the attitude of local self-government towards ministries, towards the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Everything that doesn't exist as a legal norm. It seems really amazing some of the facts that a natural spa, a Banjska place, doesn't pick up what belongs to it. And to iron that out, it's not going to go to precise legal solutions that are binding on the force of their automatism of law enforcement. Then it goes to regional development, the Development Fund, different programme parts of the budget for individual ministries, where everything depends on goodwill and membership cards. As long as in this country everything depends on the goodwill and discretion of someone who is at the head of a state authority and he defines his behaviour in terms of implementing a programme, by having an affinity towards a membership card or paint, then we will have this chaos that we have in the Republic of Serbia. We need to create a system where local self-government and the financing of local self-government operations cannot depend on the transfer of funds that the Republic needs to meet. We now have an abnormal situation, due to the unilateral application of the Trade Agreement, agriculture stagnates. Uncontrollably, competitive goods enter our agricultural and food production, compete directly, and then no wonder that for every agricultural product due to unfair competition, the dumping price with which goods from abroad enters is lost motive for any production, so it is no wonder that motor saws work for many years now. No wonder! The cost of our production exceeds the bearable costs and of course we cannot follow, and the product does not enjoy the protection of the state. It's a similar situation with the rest of our economy, especially industry, where whoever's supposed to organize the production, when they draw a line under some bill -- what are pluses, what minuses, comes to a minus. When he sees what's causing that negative or why it's so much a negative, then he notices that he's actually funding the state administration. Any motive for any economic normal business is lost. That's the situation that came to grips with this country. We have been living in a global financial crisis for seven, eight years -- over-indebted debt. They are offered in perspective, too, some loans that can only increase our debt, so whatever there is a period in which loans are not returned, there is some period of waiting. You're simply destroying the perspective of a normal society, a normal government that can function and arrange life in this space. Monopolies on each side in all segments, economically, media, manufacturing, market, whatever you turn – are you or are you not?- I'm sorry. The state is now, practically, a fundier of everything and everything. There is no development, and this government does not need those solutions in a law that is precise, but needs something like a provision in order to develop maximum political volunteerism, coalition capacity, commitment to the European Union, etc. You can even imagine that this article protects the EU from court decisions. What's meant for the state to participate to ensure the personal participation of the funds, to withdraw some funds from some fund, can't go to execution either. How much longer do you think a man can live to wait for that execution? It's like life can wait. Now, by mistake, I have entered your parole - there is one life! You forgot your passwords. You've promoted human life as the highest value. However, you also talked about the white Schengen even seven years ago, when the first presidential elections were, when Tadic was walking in front of these embassies and said, "Just vote for me, in six months we'll be on the white Schengen list. These six months have extended to six years. What are your capacities to deceive voters and ordinary citizens? Unlimited, apparently unlimited capacity. And if we are seriously considering having to exercise some control over the spending of these funds, then let us change the law on the State Auditing Institution of the Republic of Serbia, empower them with this kind of authority that they can punish. It wouldn't be a newspaper, since you now have the concept of agencies and independent regulatory bodies, which are also courts and criminal and criminal, minority, not exactly 100%, but when you punish someone like that, then it's as if you've punished him with a prison sentence, this one can't recover. Let someone on the side control these public finances, someone who will have nothing to do with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or with one parliamentary group in the National Assembly, in order to provide something objective, and something that needs to be objective analysis, objective control, above all, must be based on the profession. So we claim that this law with these solutions, if it hasn't included a few other regulations, if it hasn't included the Law on the financing of local self-government and other things, then we don't need it, and if we look at the state of the state of the government that could apply this, then we see that there's nothing. Now I'm just going to open up one topic for you, without further entry into it – is the control of budget spending in direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, and in general for all those who fall into the group to spend funds that fall under public expenditure, therefore, is the control of this executive function? Is that an executive function? Is that a function of execution, of law enforcement? I think that in the given conditions this type of executive function should be moved as far as possible from both the National Bank and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, put there somewhere near the National Assembly in order to give a more objective eye an assessment of how much was spent, whether it was purposely spent, because these are the two most important things in public consumption.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24148	Anyone else want a word? The title above Articles 57 and 57 of the amendment shall be read under Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Mico Rogovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 57 that regulates the adoption of contracts, i.e. in fact public procurement and refers to the Public Procurement Act. I felt it was perfectly normal to extend jurisdiction when it comes to the Public Procurement Act, and to all users involved in the consolidated vault account system. Unfortunately, I didn't come across an understanding with the government. I think that the government should have dealt more seriously with this amendment, because for formal reasons to refuse the amendment in a situation where we know what the degree of corruption and crime in our society is, I think it's inadmissible. In this law you have even prescribed the obligation to update and accuracy of business books, how far you have gone, it seems to me in Article 11, but you did not find it appropriate to put all the users of public funds under the authority of the Public Procurement Act. I think the government should have made it much more understanding when it comes to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24150	The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic. It's registered to an electronic system panel. Here you go, now you have to do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24151	I'm sorry, but it's not easy to get out of the O.R. all day, and it's not a vote. A member of the 57th amendment, submitted by my colleagues Zoran Antic and Mico Rogovic, deserves special attention. If we have said that putting under control all the public funds that some public funds collect, spend, for various purposes, implies the government's desire to actually exercise control over all the funds, I think it's simply impossible if in this way we leave a member of 57 who treats the award of the contract. Prosperity Group Serbia has only consistently carried out the intention of the finance minister and the government to bring this control of public funds by all users to the same level. If you have defined in this Article 57 that contracts on the purchase of goods and everything else relate to direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources and users of the mandatory social security organisations, that they must be awarded in accordance with these regulations, you should have done so consistently, so that all other public funds involved in the consolidated account system of the vault have an obligation to do so in public procurement. You, in the explanation of the rejection of the amendment, say this is a section, so we started defending ourselves with a methodology that treats execution. Isn't spending budget money the most direct way to implement the budget? And you're saying the Public Procurement Act defines the bounds of this bill, but as the budget system law requires. We adopted the law in December of last year, and Articles 1 and 3. The law on public procurement decidably regulates who is considered a contracting authority and all those, the users of the public funds you listed in the definitions, and under the provision of Article 5, are contracting entities within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act. Now, I do not see any reason to merely indicate direct and indirect users and users of the means of compulsory social insurance organisations, and to indicate all those who are in almost the same way listed in your member as users of public funds or in the Public Procurement Act, Article 3. So it is said that either most members have over 50%, and are appointed by the Republic, or some works are funded by more than 50% of what is called budget users, or they have more than 50% of the shares, or they are active in public interest, or they are public enterprises. Absolutely the same essence is defined in your definition of users of public funds, which we are asking to enter as an amendment to this article and, absolutely the same as the Public Procurement Act says. My point is to express the surprise that you rejected this amendment, when it is, in fact, absolutely necessary, because here is the Budget System Act, which is called for by the Public Procurement Act, to which these public procurements apply. Please, if there is a business opportunity to reconsider and adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24152	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment is a percentage of the draft law. The 62nd Amendment was submitted by MP Otto Kishmarton. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24153	A colleague, Sasa Maksimovic, is absent, but he left me with the satisfaction of defending his amendment as well. In Article 62, the government has provided itself for a temporary suspension of budget implementation. At 1st point, it says that if during the fiscal year expenditures increase or revenues decrease, and you have to admit it is not a natural disaster or disaster that we cannot predict or plan, or even an economic crisis, that we have reacted to somewhere since the end of 2008, such as the serious states did, means that it is not a elemental disaster and disaster that we cannot foresee, the government provides itself with the right, under a temporary suspension, under which it is meant to stop receiving commitments, extend the contractual payment period, stop granting approval for the conclusion of the contract and stop the use of quotas, means that these activities will justify themselves by making one decision, which will inform the National Assembly. I understand that although the reduction in income or the increase in expenditure is not a elemental disaster, but it can still be changed in relation to the planned and significant, I understand that such a provision should exist, but I do not understand that you are experiencing the Assembly to this extent by a passive observer and by confirming your decisions or by covering the public, in front of the citizens for the decisions you make, that you define such a provision in Section 4. The amendment requires that Article 4 reads this way – the Government informs the National Assembly of the reasons for the decision to be taken under Article 1, means, for this temporary suspension, which the National Assembly declares within a period of 10 days, means a statement, not a statement, but a statement of no longer than 10 days. Nor are we stopping you from making your decision. You have a majority that supports you, you respect the legislative authority to this extent, to provide us with reasons for it, so that we can discuss here and declare ourselves to the People's Assembly and the Government as an executive body proposing such a decision, the amendment also makes it possible for the level of local executive authority and local parliament to be informed, to make a statement and not to prevent the government from making such a decision in its length of time. If we agreed that there are three branches of executive power, and we can't change that, let's just act like that, don't touch it so boldly and too responsibly for ourselves, I mean the executive authority and, think again, return it to the National Assembly first to the laws of jurisdiction that it has, and we will also contribute to giving it back the reputation that it should have in this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24154	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milan Lapčević, Arsen Đuric and Miroslav Petkovic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment is a percentage of the draft law. The 63rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Miladanovic and Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24155	According to my records, I've got four minutes left from an authorised representative, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24156	No, as an authorised representative, you have one minute and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24157	And from the group another 15?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24158	And 15 minutes, MP group forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24159	Article 63, which was submitted by my colleagues Veroljub Arsic and Mrs Ljiljana Miladanovic, on Article 63, states that the budget rebalancing that needs to be made, we cannot again, without any deadline, in terms of how long the decision on rebalancing takes place, because the Government tells itself, Article 3 of the Rebalancing Article, that during the adoption of the budget rebalancing, or the competent authority, it may continue to suspend the implementation of certain expenditures. The government does not need a deadline, it has a temporary suspension and it is not interested, according to a solution given by the basic law, in order to limit the duration of the adoption of the rebalancing. But in some other cases where she's interested, she's giving a deadline for adoption. Absolutely, considering the good practice of the legislator, given in this text, we have suggested that there is no obstruction by the Assembly, nor by any link in the chain that should bring rebalancing, that the longest time limit can last, so the adoption of rebalancing, for 15 days. I don't see any reason not to commit to the deadlines, because that deadline concerns us, as the Assembly, and you as government. I really think this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24160	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabaković. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24161	Normally, there are no more legitimate beneficiaries of the budget, which the government has tried to impose on us by this law, but certainly there are fewer and more significant members of this law. A member of 73, who regulates the limitation of debt and guarantees, indeed, is extremely important for each country, and for Serbia in particular, because of the state of public debt, because of the state of what we call a sovereign debt, because of the state's private debt to be taken, because its revenues depend on how much the citizens owe, because they are taxpayers. If they don't have the money, so they pay back the loan, and they don't buy the goods, there's no VAT, if there's no imports to sell to them, there's no VAT on import goods again. So, the exceptional importance of considering the debt-guarantee ratios that cannot remain and cannot remain on the government's proposed solution, on the descriptive obligation to consider the debt-guarantee ratio in relation to GDP, regardless of the gravity of the moment and regardless of the inability of precise quantification, or planning today, we must set ourselves a goal that is the maximum level of debt to which we can go, or which we should seek. This element to determine the percentage of debt that we as a state can have, it is called, and Mrs. Minister certainly knows, in the practice of serious states as a "debt brake" and I am the measure to make it 0.5% of the maximum debt compared to GDP, indeed, taken over from the material that the German state has already put at the beginning of the crisis as its goal. I want to remind everyone, the government at the most, but the public in particular, if a rich and prosperous state wants to put a stop to it, because they're planning to put a limit on this level of debt, they don't want to pay the expenditure on the debt of interest, and they owe it so much, and what we have yet to do. I want to determine, you could have changed the percentage if you think it's too low for this moment, but in any case, we have to, as a state, set ourselves a goal that is the upper limit that this country's GDP can handle and that can handle the budget, because the cost of funding, interest and the payment of loans and capital, whatever it is invested in, and in infrastructure, is going back over the budget. I'll take the opportunity to, by defending my amendment, remind you once more. From the moment you didn't adopt that our basic budgetary objective and economic policy is to reduce unemployment, standards of the population and economic development, I have no idea that you want to do something that will be called a concrete effect for every citizen's life. It is your first priority, that the government be maintained, that it works in complicated coalition circumstances, but the government's goal is not the aim of the Assembly – it is not the goal of the citizens who sent us here. One minimum measure of correction called to pursue a debt and that everything we do, every activity, personal, common, political, in these bodies must ultimately be reduced to that every single person in his life feels a better feeling, that he has a job, that he receives a salary, and the state on its part must be interested in buying some goods, because it is the source of her life, that's her air without which he can't. I'm under the impression that this government doesn't see enough of its dependence on citizens whose back it's behind, whose interests it protects. I have the impression that it is not enough to know how much it burdens this economy, and my impression is not even descriptive, as you have here, that you will measure the debt and guarantee in relation to GDP, my impression is fully measured by the dissatisfaction of those who are now on the street due to the failure of privatisation, measured by the number of those who have lost their jobs and measured by the number of those who care and watch over the value of the libor, the eubor, over the growth of the reference or the slow fall of the reference interest rate as the basic rates on loans and borrowings, who are forced to even think about monetary policy, and they have never had to deal with it before, which is our mandatory reserve of 35-40%, and it was 18%, and somewhere much lower, and they are forced because they know that monetary policy and that the price of credit is the amount of money is the money that they will have in their wallet when they think about their future! I really ask you not to remain on good intentions, which we will have even fantastic excuses for, and not to remain on the descriptions, but to the precise figures that we will commit to the citizens, because that is the least we owe them all individually. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24162	The remaining time is available to the parliamentary group for 10 minutes. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 79th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Ljiljana Miladanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24163	The amendment to Article 81(1) in the section relating to the syntagm "reasonable assurance" was proposed to change "the highest degree of security". I'm not a lawyer, but I do do business in the country and abroad and I know the rules enough, and I know that these words, like reasonable persuasion, are much more of an English or American legal system, than a continental system that belongs to our legal system. For this reason, I believe that the words "the highest degree of security" are much more in the spirit of the Serbian language and our legal system. The amendment was rejected on the grounds that the term "reasonable belief" is broader than "the highest degree of security". I could accept that, of course, with some arguments, but what I can't accept is that the government is in a position to explain why it refuses the amendment to Article 81. The bill stated that the definition of "reasonable assurance" was already given in the Regulation on common criteria and standards for the establishment and functioning of the financial management and control system in the public sector. What did the government show with this? It has shown that a sublegal act, such as the Regulation, is more important than the system law governing the area of the budget system. Well, this same rulebook will have to comply with the law when it's passed. The principle of constitutionality and legality requires lower legal acts to be aligned with higher ones. I think it's really my well-intentioned advice to make sure when there's an argument, because the paper can't take it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24164	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 82 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24165	The purpose of the amendment to Article 82, i.e. the change proposed, is that the Government, instead of the finance minister, lays down common criteria for organisation, standards and methodological instructions for handling, as well as closer conditions for internal audit operations in the public sector, but on a proposal from the ministry. Given the importance of internal audit, or its functions in the control of the legality of the availability of funds, then in the control of the efficiency of spending, but perhaps most importantly, in the control of the integrity of the availability of funds, we felt that the government representing the most executive body should establish these common criteria. Of course, the resolution ministry would make a proposal, given that part-time work. It is not a good solution, regardless of the individual, even if it is the finance minister, that the finance minister sets the criteria for the work of the entire service. These services play a major role and are of great importance in the state and represent a form of defence against the non-intentional and non-discriminatory spending of taxpayers' money. In addition, the Government is the most responsible for public finance policy and should define standards for the work of internal audit for all budget users, as the law provides for the obligation for all to have internal audit functions within their activities. The internal audit and this proposal gives it a significant place in the public finances system which is good, but if the government rather than the ministry or minister, regardless of which individual it is, should not give criteria and define standards. Of course, I've seen this amendment not accepted, but I think the government is running away from the state in that very principled way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24166	Before I give my word to the next speaker, just to give a notice from RTS Secretary General Stanislav Veljkovic, who sent Mr. Veljak Odalovic a notice saying that, on Thursday, 1607.2009, as on Friday, 17.07.2019, the Assembly will be transferred until 16:30, due to earlier commitments, and the delayed transmission, as usual, will be at another time. Anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 82? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radojko Obradovic submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24167	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, these few members of the law deal with the issue of internal audit. You don't always have to break the law. There must be a lot of attention, especially when it comes to state and state bodies, local self-government, public enterprises. The internal control instruments must be taken into account in order to remove any deficiencies in sight. The member says that internal audit is being established in direct beneficiaries of budgets, that further direct users establish an appropriate form of internal audit for indirect users is still predicting what and how it is done. How do I interpret this member? It was very similarly defined in the Law that is now in force – internal audit is mandatory for all direct budget users. At least, I think it's mandatory. I say, it is a matter that must be an internal option and that within the user itself, appropriate procedures are introduced and all shortcomings are removed. I have proposed an amendment which reads: 'Internal auditor must be independent and independent in his work, above all in the drafting of the draft audit reports, the selection of the methods of revision, reporting, making recommendations and monitoring of their implementation. ''If the internal auditor is not independent of his executive on these professional matters, then the big question is, will his reports have any meaning that we want to give him and will they really do the proper control? Is there a penalty if an internal audit is not introduced? If there is, what kind of punishment is that? Is the Serbian Parliament obliged to introduce an internal auditor? I think so. And does the National Assembly have an internal audit in its business? There isn't. Have you exercised control and have you any information as to how direct and indirect the budget user has these instruments of control in his work at all? And how is it possible that the National Assembly still doesn't have that in its work? We'll talk about some of the other members, but the huge lack of this law is exactly when things are signed, and then there are no deadlines, there are no procedures to control it, and there are no criminal provisions that will define it – what if something is not done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24168	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 83, the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24169	Madam Chairman, in the current budget of civil servants' salaries, it is planned to spend about 180 billion dinars and that is one of the biggest expenditures of the pension budget. Control of these two expenditures is of primary importance for the level of public spending and deficits. The government has promised to reduce these costs not only for us but also for the IMF. Whenever there's a chance to pass a new pay regulation, it's the opposite moment and the situation we're in today. This article also provides for expenditure on salaries to be predicted through the stimulation that will be given to employees of the Central Harmonization Unit, whatever that means. The amendment we have proposed aims to protect the equality of all public, or civil servants. Among other things, it has been shown in an equal position in relation to the achievement of the salary. We asked that a certain number of civil servants could not have special salaries or incentives, and in particular this could not be done contrary to the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants, which would eventually lead to these stimulations being carried out for this central harmonisation unit. The Member concerned contains provisions of the work cycle of the Central Harmonisation Unit relating to the definition of control standards in accordance with internationally recognised standards. In this article, it is also defined that the minister prescribes a programme for professional education, training and what we are talking about – the stimulating remuneration of employees at the Central Harmonization Unit's jobs. Our amendment requires that the words 'and the stimulating remuneration of employees' be deleted from this article, as this brings about the need for such a provision to contain a law that regulates the work of all ministries and state bodies, because everyone is motivated and satisfied by officials, not just this unit. Today, the average salary in the state administration is about 40% higher than in the economy, and in an explanation of the rejection of this amendment, it was said that it was rejected because of this loss of stimulation would leave many employees. All I have to do is inform the government that we've got about a million unemployed, of which about 30,000 to 40,000 people with college have no job whatsoever. Maybe they could do these jobs without stimulation, which some say are small and that these jobs don't match their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24170	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 84th Amendment is attended by the joint mid-day MPs Milan Lapčević, Arsen Đurić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulović. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24171	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This amendment concerns Chapter 7 - Budgetary Inspection. We propose adding a new point to Article 84, a proposal from the DSS Group to control and out-of- BUDGs. We have explained that it is necessary for the budgetary inspection to also exercise control over the out-of-Budget funds, for a simple reason, because there are many funds that have to be controlled because of their nature. First of all, we're referring to various types of chambers, the bar, the medical chamber, the pharmaceutical chamber, the engineering chamber that has mandatory membership fees. Mr. Rade Obradovic just explained the essence and answered the question why there is no funds in the budget for the anti-urban missiles I will talk about again. If the budget inspection for 2008 and the Report adopted on 2 July, which was delivered to the Assembly on 8 July, on the day of these major natural disasters, it was found that the Agency was not deliberately used for the purchase of furniture, curtains and garages of 626 million dinars, that 841,595,211 dinars were not intended in the Ministry of Science, without the procedure and public procurement procedures, and when the budgetary inspection determined that funds should be recovered in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, then it is clear why Koceljeva did not have and why Kocelev did not have any protection, therefore only a few missiles were fired. Mr. Zoran Babic, director of RHMZ, said in a statement to "Pres" on 10.07. that the supplies are nothing and that the money is gone, i.e. there are problems in the purchase and financing of anti-building missiles due to lack of money to pay off domestic producers, Krusik, Trajal and Polyester. With Trayla, an agreement was attempted to deliver missiles, and the deadline for payments was mid-2010. So, there's something we can make out, we can pay, the question is why it's being paid in advance, and something can't. It's obvious that for curtains, furniture, garages there's money, and this government is always ready to allocate funds, and for these things that concern all farmers and all agricultural households, there's no funds. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24172	Short notice. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was warned, the notice passed by RTS was about Thursday 16th and Friday 17th, and it's about today, Wednesday 15th, but it's in the previous letter, not in the one I read today. Considering that it's good to know if everyone's hours will be interrupted, I've given information that that's how it's going to be tomorrow and the day after tomorrow at 16:30, too, because of the earlier commitments the RTS has cut off direct transfers and the session will be broadcast in a delayed transmission. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milan Lapčević, Arsen Đurić, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24173	Dear Chairman, please give your regards to the secretary of RTS and the director, Mr Tijanic, and we will discuss the Information Act tomorrow. It will be without transmission to the Second Public Service Programme. It's probably one of the ways you want to avoid criticizing that law and go without public presence. We're used to it, so we'll be forced to inform people again in other ways to convince them to stay awake after midnight and watch a delayed session of the assembly. Chapter seven of the bill regulates the affairs of the budgetary inspection. In this proposal, you provide for the control of beneficiaries of budget funds, social security organisations of public enterprises, units of local self-government. I ask the question – where are the extra budget funds in this member? I'm sure they weren't accidentally left out and forgotten, but they were consciously and deliberately done. If it is already being controlled, I suppose all the subjects should be subject to that control and there is no untouchable in Serbia. Respected citizens of Serbia who will watch this transmission at midnight, the DSS parliamentary group has come into possession of one document. I am very interested in the opinion of the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I quote, the memo begins like this: "Tell this to each of the presidents of the local communities! The form of documentation submitted to the ministry and the parties to the competition is attached. The contest comes out in a month and a half, it needs to be monitored on sites, and a list of sites is listed. ''Our proposals were submitted to the party (17 signs of shouting). There! Hello! "This memo was sent by a special adviser to the director of a public company to the president of the city board of DS in a city in Serbia, which is also one of the directors of public enterprises in the city. If you think this is how the state is run, I'm telling you, you're making a big mistake. You of the DS think when it's good that only you are well, and when it's bad to be bad to all Serbian citizens. If the authorities and the budgetary inspection do not respond to these things, I am sure they will react to the citizens of Serbia in the first elections to come. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24174	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24175	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, article 92, treats external audits, treats the state audit institution. In Article 92, in the opinion of the Serbian Progressive Party Tomislav Nikolic, there is a rude demeaning of the State Auditing Institution, as the State Auditing Institution puts itself in a position not to decide who will carry out an external audit, but to agree with what the local self-government proposes - a local self-government proposing a person to carry out that external audit and the State Auditing Institution should agree. My amendment focused on the state audit institution proposing a person to carry out an external audit, and I find that much more logical. This respects the Law on the State Auditing Institution and, in some ways, is given even more in importance to the State Auditing Institution, which is the intensity of the Serbian Progressive Party and Tomislav Nikolic. So there is one strong audit institution that will control all levels of government, so control and spend budgets. What's very interesting is a cynicism with which the government, I would say, is the full authority, refers to the independence of the State Auditing Institution. This is being looked at, and in the explanation that was delivered to me on the subject of the amendment, I have to read it. It is said – The State Audit Authority informed the local authorities in advance that there would be no control on its part if the amendment proposed by me was adopted. So if the State Audit Authority proposes a person, it informs local self-government that it will not control it in the future, I don't know what law says that you can't inspect it in the course of the year, you can do it once, twice, three times, but if local self-government itself proposes a person that suits it, we'll get a better review, we'll get more accurate data, we'll have better control. I think this is one serious cynicism. It is inadmissible in this way to treat the State Auditing Institution, and I hope that both the public and all MPs in the voting day will in some way punish the Government for this kind of haughtiness. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24176	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gojko Radic and Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24177	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in article 100. The bill is about the revenues made by the Public Payments Authority. According to the draft law, these funds can only be used within the Ministry of Finance and within the management of the Ministry of Finance. I have to ask the finance minister first to tell me what the average employee of the Public Payments Authority is. I claim that they have even higher salaries than ministers, not to mention some other government employees, in the first place. In second place, what kind of income do they have? They have due to their monopoly behaviour that any payment that goes through any republican authority or any local self-government must pass through the Public Payments Authority and therefore charges a certain fee. So, the Public Payments Authority benefits the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget and the budgets of local self-government. So, Madam Minister, it would be quite fair for all the ministries to have these resources based on some plan and programme that you would bring. This amendment leaves you with this possibility. This way, most of the funds will still be spent by the Public Payments Administration, which is a little bit of an obstacle, because they really spend a lot of money, and they do a little bit, so I can tell you, so what's more likely is that they're going to focus on some seminars and some education that's going to be so crowded that most of those who go won't know where they're going, or why they're going, they're just going to go just to go. In this way, in a much more difficult situation, they put other ministries whose employees and workers really need to have a certain education, to get to know their work better, and in the end, as you claim, to get to know better the European legislation, not to have the privilege of the ministries that have money, in the first place the Ministry of Finance, without talking about Dinkic and others who really spend it whenever they arrive and however they arrive! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24178	Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Slobodan Maras, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 103rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Veroljub Arsic. Please press only one button.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24179	Article 103 provides for some kind of punishment if the beneficiary of the appropriations invests certain assets in a bank, without the knowledge and consent of a particular body provided for in Article 10 of this Act, and does not inform the Treasury Administration thereof. I can say that this is a matter of investing local self-government, and even ministries, various administrations that have certain resources in their vault accounts, therefore, that this is a question of investing in business banks is rather suspicious. First of all, I don't know if there's any such funding going on and who's going to have the resources of the local self-government budget? Is there a call being made? Is it public procurement or, in their own hands, as they arrive, or as anyone likes, authorised persons conclude deposit agreements? Now, we live in a time of global economic crisis. Here, the finance minister and the Prime Minister announce budget rebalances and say the deficit needs to be increased, that wages and pensions should not be cut. I agree on salaries, I agree on pensions, most of the employees in the authorities of the state administration. I don't think it's necessary to increase the deficit. And if we're in such a financial situation, how come the law and the finance minister and the Prime Minister and the local self-government that, if they broadcast securities of value or owe themselves to business banks and raise their loans, they're having their own funds at business banks? Let's get someone to explain that logic to me. So, I put 100 million dinars in some business bank with an interest rate of 0.75% or 1% a month, and then I borrowed my money from that same bank, at 1.5, or 2% a month – who does that? Could it be the commissions the bank agents have when they close these contracts? Could the bank agents be sharing their commission from the bank, with local self-government, or authorized person who concluded on behalf of the local self-government or any other budget beneficiary, one such contract? One such phenomenon is extremely expressed in a large number of municipalities. I have long wondered why a municipality has 120 to 150 million dinars who spend every night in the deposit accounts of that municipality, or at a business bank, and have a chronic lack of money in budget users? I ask the question – what is the interest charged by the bank and to whom is it paying 'on means of vision'? For such large depositors, commissions range from 0.8% to 1.2% to an agent who concluded one such contract. Who does this agent share that money with? So, every month, someone only makes a million dinars based on one budget user. Don't tell me he's doing it alone, or what kind of favor does that community expect from a business bank, if that's how they treat their assets? Madam Minister, I thought with this bill of law you would arrange the budget system of the Republic of Serbia, that the possibility of abuse would be reduced to a minimum. I realize it's hard to write laws for a while, but in such a time, unfortunately, we live. Serbia is a poor country and we need laws to adapt this time, a poor country with a lot of crime – you have to admit it. Well, as the crime situation improves, the country's wealth is growing, so we're changing our legislation. And like this, you have made a law that can work in countries where the police are not corrupt, where the budget inspection is doing its job, and does not listen to the minister, where the judiciary is not corrupt, where the prosecution is not corrupt – such a law can be applied. In our country, unfortunately, because of these problems, this is only one utopia, which will eventually be paid by Serbian citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24180	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Đuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24181	Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, this is Head Ten, Penal Codes - Violence. Minister, where are you here? You're not in this article. We have proposed an amendment, where it will be clearly defined, that if you do not comply with the obligations and deadlines provided for by this law – you answer. Nothing personal, believe me, and nothing is directed against you. I think that's what we said when we adopted the budget. If the minister breaks the law, then it's normal to resign. Give an example of a minister who breaks the law in the Republic of Serbia, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, how a responsible man should behave, if he has any rights, he should do so. I repeat, once again, that this doesn't apply to you personally, but that's what we asked for last time. Don't be surprised, since I'm sure you'll be breaking the Budget System Act this year, that you'll break deadlines again, don't be surprised when we call you to resign, if, of course, the government will function in December of the month when the Republic of Serbia's budget is adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24182	The word is by MP Radojko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24183	Thank you. As a colleague has already said, we wanted to highlight the importance and responsibility of the state authorities in implementing certain laws. It is a well-known thing, let's say, that the procedures for issuing a building permit are also for various other things in Serbia, amongst others in the world. I used to have a chance to work at the Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction. It's not true that this procedure lasts 256 days, but the problem is that the subject starts working on 251 days, realistically, can be done in a few days, but the question is, from what point on, that job is starting to work. As long as everyone else is responsible by our laws, and any state authority is excluded from responsibility, we will have a hard time solving this kind of problem. I think the proposed amendment to this article is very good. In this case, the National Assembly would be concerned, because the National Assembly did not introduce an internal audit, which is an obligation under this law. And it concerns all other organs that would have the obligation to carry it out. Therefore, when we begin to introduce both the responsibility of the state and the state authorities to implement all possible laws, then many other things will go their course. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24184	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24185	Article 103, as my colleague said, criminal provisions against responsible persons who do not comply with this law and who do not respect the order of payments, should also be found within this member of the law, that they too suffer certain sanctions, because the order of payments today is a big problem, when it comes to local self-government, that it significantly endangers the Law on Public Procurement, that regardless of what is provided for in the law to prescribe and how payment is made and is intended to go towards the time of reception, I think it is very often not respected, that it is possible for some bidders to be privileged, that it is a very common situation to prescribe a three-month period for payment, but for someone to be three days, for some three months. That's how one system of privilege is created. In this way, the Public Procurement Act is also devised, the number of bidders is reduced. You have similar bidders and I felt that it was in some way necessary to give knowledge to the Ministry, and I believe that it is aware, that the minister must significantly sharpen the way and regulation when it comes to the order of payment and execution of the order for payment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24186	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulović and Milos Aligrudić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24187	Look what you wrote here in article 105. You say, 'If the provisions of other laws, or regulations, are contrary to this law, the provisions of this law shall apply. '"When you refused us the amendment we asked for this nonsense to be erased, then you wrote in an explanation... I'm sorry, Madam Minister, you can listen a little bit, I'm talking to you because there's no direct transmission right now, so the most correct thing to do is to talk to you, and I'm talking about the content of Article 105. So, that nonsense that all the laws can't be applied if they're contrary to this law, you're already applying this law, you're saying in an explanation of the rejection of our amendment that it's because this provision doesn't represent a newspaper, you must have copied it from the old Bill on the Budget System, which can't be any excuse for the stupidity that's written somewhere, and we, from the DSS, believe me, we haven't written it, you can check it, and then you say, the laws are in force before 2002, when the Budget System Act is passed, so there's a certain discrepancy. Write down which laws will not be applied and which laws dictate this law, so when you write a provision that no law will apply which is contrary to the provisions of this law which, thank God, has over 100 members, you have no concept, you have nothing, then how can you write a provision that is general and decorative in relation to any law in any area in our legal system, even if that sentence has to be written there. This is completely nonsense. You can't leave this in the text of the law, you should write a more correct transitional provision. Now, that's why I suggested that we delete this, and that's why you have no idea how or how to refuse the amendment, and that sounds at least too much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24188	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 106 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Radovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government has submitted to Article 107 of the amendment. The Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 107th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24189	Article 107 is part of the Transitional and Final Provisions where it is defined, among other things, in Article 107's 2nd position, that until the beginning of the work of the Public Debt Administration established by the Public Debt Act, "The Official Messenger of the RS', No. 61 of 2005, will carry out the tasks of the Administration for the Treasury. Inadmissible, I don't know if anyone would seriously believe that we're talking about the responsibility of the state, the economy, the citizens, that there's an informer on the National Bank website where citizens are learning to recalculate their credit obligations, that there have been various consultations, round tables directed by various papers, organisations, agencies dealing with you and such, and that we, or you, have failed to form a public debt management for four years, and that we have warned you at all times, at least as many times as the budget law has been discussed, or the budget rebalancing. I personally warned that this cube in what is called job systematization was not carried out in further jurisdiction through the authorities, management chiefs and specific responsibilities, and rather than in any way bringing this to the purpose that is legally defined and defined, that we also have a financial risk assessment by the Republic of those responsibilities, not only in the budget we get how many new responsibilities, guarantees, taken over not only for us, which we will have to repay, but also future generations. Instead of ending this job in silence, not hearing how irresponsible the Government is to appoint the Director of the Public Debt Administration and to take over those responsibilities for four years, we have been offered in the Transitional and Final Provisions the possibility that the Treasury Office, which performs payment traffic, does financial services for everyone else, earns and spends everything on itself, does these jobs as well. Considering that this is inadmissible, we have proposed an amendment to the 2nd amendment to that position, the next solution – that the Public Debt Administration, which was established by the 2005 law, will start working at the latest on 1 October 2009, until the Treasury Administration and do its jobs. If, by then, the Public Debt Administration does not start working, as the law provides, that the National Assembly refuses to ratify or adopt any law or regulation granting a new guarantee or approving a new task. Such a solution came from the practice that we are faced with, that the government absolutely cannot react as it has been proposed by the laws itself, the government in continuity from 2005 to today, in this or that variant, while there is no sanction that hangs over its head and says that it can be, to bear some kind of responsibility for its inactions, at least to the extent that it requires citizens and businesses to carry out their obligations and how much it sanctions them for the obligations they do not carry out. I really think if we found the funds and ways to get the agency, and with every new law, there's at least one agency going, we're setting them up, we're setting them up somewhere, we're hiring their secretaries, we're buying them computers, we're providing all the rights they have, it's high time, and without sanctions, this government won't do it, and that's why I thought this amendment was really over-needed, even in the Transition and Final Provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24190	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Predrag Mijatovic and Stefan Zankov submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, my colleague Zankov and I have tabled an amendment to Article 110, so that, instead of the point at the end of the text, it will be stuck and added, 'a no later than 60 days from the date of entry into force of this law. ''This change wanted us to specify more precisely the deadline by which the minister will set the deadline until which payments can be made from the sub-account of the beneficiaries of the budget and the beneficiaries of the mandatory social security organisations, with which payment is made on the date of entry into force of this law. However, the government did not recognise the need for the adoption of this amendment, by clearly established practice, and not only of the custom but also of the system to support financial chaos, which we see from all these amendments which have been submitted and not accepted to introduce some order, with the explanation given, (I will read part of the reasoning) ''an additional set of deadlines is not necessary. In addition, it is not possible to carry out technical preparations within the proposed deadline, first of all, in order to abolish payment from sub-accounts for thousands of budget users at all levels of government. ''However, we believe that a concrete deadline must be defined for the conclusion of the law of the intended jobs. It should not be possible for many public funds to run under-controlled flows and to prevent the established practice of stalling and avoiding liability to control the flow of funds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24192	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Milos Radulovic. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24193	To Article 112. The DSS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment, explaining that the deadlines are too long for the programming part of the budget and that they should be shortened in a proposed manner. The provision of Article 112 states that the programme part of the budget will be implemented gradually by introducing individual beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and in general since the adoption of the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the decision on local government budgets for 2015. We suggested that it be 2012. "The provisions of this law relating to the medium-term public investment plan will be applied from the 2011 budget process. '"That's what the bill says. We put it in 2010. "The provisions of this law, in the part relating to the preparation of medium-term plans, are applied in the process of preparing and adopting the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for all ministries for 2011... ''We made a proposal to make it in 2010. We believe that the deadlines are too long and that as soon as possible this law on the budgetary system is applied, and in particular, Madam Minister, as you said, I am going back to your opening exhibition, in the exhibition that you had when the debate was in principle, we want European standards, European standards, and that is exactly what we are insisting on. You're obviously not ready to apply modern norms. You are not allowed to ask Ministers Dinkic, Mrkonjic, Kalanovicki, Skundric, Dragin to request that they deliver the programme. That's clear. Secondly, you are incapable of designing the growth of gross social product and crisis. We went 6% in October of the month, so we went 3.5% when we adopted the budget, we warned you about the crisis, the monster what effects they would have on the production and growth of gross social product in the country. Now the projection is minus 3.5 to minus 5%. Do you know why? Because you choose incompetents. You choose them by party membership. That's what you can see in the Ministry. The Secretary of State is elected to you by party, not by knowledge. That's why we have everything that's going on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24194	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The proposal to add Article 112a is an amendment submitted by the Government. This amendment was adopted by the Committee on Finance, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed a search of the draft law in particular, does the proposing representative, Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want to take the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24195	The President-in-Office, the honourable MPs, has concluded the debate in particular on the draft law on the budgetary system. There have been many constructive discussions and very useful amendments and I thank you for them. Let me remind you, 204 amendments have been tabled, although for just a moment I am absorbing amendments to the SRS, and I will explain why, so 113, 91 amendments have been submitted and the government adopted 26. These 26 basically include amendments to the Finance Committee, which essentially only show amendments to the Members of Parliament in a more technically appropriate way. Almost 30% of the amendments were adopted. Why did I say I was only going to absorb the amendments to the SRS for a moment? Because they have proposed 113 amendments, just as many members of this law. Personally, I wouldn't mind if they offered an alternative. So they could say delete Article 1 and instead of Article 1 we suggest that Article 1 looks like this. They didn't do it. They did not even specify what kind of case it should be and what example from a file of more than 60 laws on the budgetary system that exists is a good example for the Republic of Serbia. All their amendments were explained in a sentence – incomplete, dysfunctional, without complete and public institutes. Of course none of this stands unless there's an alternative. Although MP Obradovic discussed me in principle in some way, I do not want to say encouraged, he had good words at the beginning of his presentation as he said we wanted to forget the ugly experience of the past, which is how the finance minister, i.e. I, does not respect the budget calendar. The fact is that MPs today remind me of it all the time. As the past, the 2009 budget essentially states. I would really like to remind you, although I know that you know this well, that the budget calendar is neither respected in 2004, nor in 2006, or in 2007, or in 2008. I don't want to remind you of the fact of who the Prime Minister was at the time. And who was the finance minister? ) Whoever it was, you'll let me finish, I didn't interrupt, and I'd like to make my comment. So, in no word does that justify me, as Minister of Finance. I'm talking about you and your honesty and your good intentions. So you're asking from others what you didn't ask of yourself. I know that you, Mr. Obradic, are clear that the laws are being made for some standard cases. So it's normal to make a budget in one year, or if God does, for three in stable economies. It is normal to make the law and to implement the law implies economic and political stability. I know that those earlier budget calendars did not respect, since there was no political stability, as you know now in 2009 it is not respected and because there was no political stability and economic stability. Also, the budget-preparation sector, as a very important sector, is designed to work in one or three years. That's 15 people. I would also refer briefly to what has been the most implemented by your amendments, which is primarily DSS MPs, seeking penalties, not to say sanctions, for not holding a budget calendar. So, I don't like to give any guarantees, especially if it's not just up to me, but this is the first thing I'd give guarantees that if you find somewhere on a globe like that, I'm willing to sit back and defend this law with sanctions for non-compliance with the budget calendar. Why? Because the budget calendar basically has two parts – the first part, which regulates the internal work in the government and the second part, which regulates the presentation and work on adopting the budget in Parliament. Nowhere in the world is this case, for example, that a minister who does not adhere to the budget calendar is somehow responsible to the finance minister, or that the finance minister has the authority to punish the minister. The minister who does not adhere to the budget calendar can only be responsible to the prime minister, and it is the prime minister who will decide whether the minister he chose and does not adhere to the budget calendar, he deserves his trust. The assembly does not establish sanctions anywhere in the world, fines, whatever you want, for individual ministers and for their work in the government. Why? Because in the parliamentary system, the government is responsible to the Assembly and lasts as long as the majority trust in the Assembly has. If the government doesn't initiate the procedure in time, it doesn't respect the calendar, there can always be an initiative to vote that government's mistrust. It's not the first time I've heard of you wanting to install into our legal system something that doesn't exist anywhere. It is theoretically possible, you will admit, that the government will bring, or submit, a budget to parliament in time, but that the Assembly does not vote and bring it in time. There are procedures for that. Should the Assembly be punished, too? How is that possible? Theoretically, logically, it's not possible. Also, I will look briefly at some number of amendments that are most often criticised, not exactly in the order that follows from the law. The most frequently criticised was the amendment to Article 46. It refers to temporary funding. There were two types of criticisms – one that she felt was not to be limited, which would theoretically mean that you could endlessly extend the period of temporary funding, which means that the Assembly almost should not decide on it, the second, there were excuses that this is too long a period of time and that it should be returned for a period of three months. Among the two extreme opinions, I think it's six months, I repeat again, given the economic and political instability, a deadline when a good budget can still be made. Article 10 speaks of the possibility that investment can only be made if you are not in charge. Perhaps it is not well written to explain why such an amendment is not accepted. But money comes and goes, so to speak, in continuous time. You may have fewer in a year as a whole, but this is a matter of weather discrepancies. It's possible that at some point you have a surplus, at another point you're short, and that's why whoever manages, let's say, the vault, these funds invest to make the deficit smaller in the end. Critics addressed to the law also frequently stated that this law does not allow Parliament to influence the size of surpluses and deficits. That's completely wrong. We only give limits, the deficit can't be greater than, because every deficit monitors the possibility of funding, or the surplus can't be less than, because that surplus is also used to pay off, say, previously taken loans. Between these two things, these two extremes, Parliament can affect the deficit, or surplus. There has been an objection or amendment to the reasons for major deviations in the final account. I think it was Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic's amendment. The aggregate expenditures can be the highest to the level approved by this parliament. They may be smaller, but that doesn't mean that each individual expenditure is exactly what we've voted for. Why? Because every ministry, in this law, has the possibility of transferring 5% of the benefits from one apron to another. It's a number of degrees of freedom left to the minister, plus a budget reserve, which is why it serves to cover some unforeseen expenses, something we have to do, somehow. In that sense, when we talk about major deviations when different items are at stake, we are not talking about the total amount. We're talking about individual items. I wanted to answer a number of questions and objections, since time is running out, I would ask you to consider once again all the amendments adopted by the Government, i.e. I as its representative, and I would read all the amendments that I have accepted on behalf of the Government, which are amendments to the Committee on Economy and Finance, this is an amendment to Article 2, Amendment to Article 4, Amendment to Article 14, Amendment to Article 14, Amendment to Article 17, Amendment to Article 22, Amendment to Article 28, Amendment to Article 31, Amendment to Title and Article 57, Amendment to Article 103 and Amendment, with correction, Group of MEPs to Article 103. After the second rereading I expect, indeed, that in the day to vote, however, you will support this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24196	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the draft law in particular, since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Republic of Slovenia Administrative Taxes (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the draft of the law: together Zlata Đerić, Aleksandra Ilic and Radoslav Mojsilović, together Aleksandra Janković, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic, together Aleksandra Janković and Aleksandra Ilic, together Aleksandra Janković and Milutin Jelic and Zoran Antić. You received a report from the Finance Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a message from Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group has submitted an almost identical amendment, since it has technically been put in place, in fact we are asking for an administrative fee that provides for a reduction in the amount of tax payable on patents, small patents, innovations, therefore, to be reduced to 50%, and we are asking that it be reduced even by 70%. First of all, we believe that the budget of this tax is not filled significantly, and that the release or significant reduction of this tax or more significant than what is provided for these amendments and the additions of the Law would be stimulating for those people who dare or have the courage, will, desire, knowledge and skills to deal with this. First of all, we need to know how much patent activity, innovative activity, is important and stimulating for all branches of science, and we need to know that all great technical achievements, all great scientific discoveries, are, in fact, made up of a series of very small, often, accidentally discovered innovations. So it would be significant that this activity is free of any excessive cost of money, because it is often misunderstood in the environment and only later time shows how large and significant it is, if it wasn't, the damage is irrelevant again, and I think it would make a significant contribution. All the other amendments that New Serbia's MPs have submitted refer to the same thing, and I don't think I will report at all, that it would be important to accept them, because indeed in the budget of a major deviation and a great loss will not be, and a great gain will be if it falls significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24198	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24199	I'm just going to say for a little while, exactly what I said about the last amendment and I'm not answering again. We have submitted a series of amendments, the amendments are exactly in the same text, the same explanation, because it refers, in fact, to the same item that is repeated and which so had to be elaborated in the law. So we're asking that this activity, instead of the projected 50% reduction, be reduced to 70%, to cut by 70%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24200	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandra Ilic submitted together to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milutin Jelic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milutin Jelic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. () Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Minister Diana Dragutinovic, want to take the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24201	As I said in my opening statement, the motive for change was to agree with the Law on political parties. This was used to significantly reduce individual items, individual taxis. I think a 50% reduction is really going to make this tax relatively small tax burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24202	I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE USE OF MARFIN BANK A.D. BELGRADE ON THE DEBT OF JP "SERBIA" The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, rejected as incomplete amendments by MPs Vladan Batic to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Proposal for a law, but pursuant to Article 148(3). Rules of Procedure, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Since no amendments have been submitted to the proposal for this law, and before I conclude the review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move on to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE SUPPLEMENT OF RAD (individuality) You have received amendments submitted to the bill jointly by the MPs: Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasić, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanović, Vladan Jeremic, Dejan Mirović, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Aleksandar Martinović and Momir Marković, MP Nikola Krpić, MP Zoran Kasalović, Saša Dujović, Djordža Milicevic and Milisav Petronijevic. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MPs Djordje Milicevic, Zoran Kasalovic and Sasa Dujovic, wrote in writing, withdrew the amendments they submitted to Article 1. It's a bill of law. The Legislative Committee, as incomplete, rejected the amendments to Article 1 and Article 2. Laws submitted jointly by the People's MPs Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanović, Vladan Jeremic, Dejan Mirović, Milan Avramović, Boris Alexic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Aleksandar Martinović and Momir Markovic, so they, in accordance with Article 148. Rules of Procedure, I can't be the subject of a debate and I can't vote on them. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( b) The People's Parliament, the Prophet of Radeta, wants a word. The time available for the parliamentary group is four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24203	It would be good if indeed a representative of the Government, of course, Mrs Dragutinovic could not do so, given that there is no authority, in the matter of this law, that at least this amendment should be accepted, given that the Legislative Committee is absolutely anti-business, against the law, against constitutional, tyrannical, non-democratic, dictatorial, violent, I don't know how else, rejected the amendments of the MP of the SRS and for one single reason only, that you didn't want to hear what the amendment of Article 116 represents. The labour law. It represents that the employees of Serbia, as of today, or tomorrow when you adopt this bill, will be absolutely left to the mercy of employers, who will let them go on forced vacations indefinitely. For that period, it will give them 60% of all the miserable and miserable earnings anyway and will put them in a position to be employed, as Tadic would say – they will save the job, but they will not be able to live on behalf of what they will remain as employees and on a forced holiday. The worst part is that this forced holiday is indefinite, which means they can go to retirement freely to count that employers will not return them to work, and it is not true what Minister Ljajic has brought out here and what government representatives are trying to present in the media. It is not true that this amendment of the Law is in the interests of employees, the proposal for this supplement of the Law is absolutely and exclusively in the interests of employers. Given the way you don't want to talk about it, we are even more and more convinced that this is one single member of the Labour Act complemented by the order of some tycoons who have tens of thousands of employees, I said this in principle debate, which works for a profit of 14-15 or 16,000 dinars, and they will now be fine on the basis of this law to go on forced holidays, because these tycoons, whose slaves are due to the irresponsible government of the Republic of Serbia, to turn out to be fine, won't quit, they will issue their business premises for some more profitable business at present, given the purchasing power of Serbian citizens, who are minute by minute, not day after day, becoming weaker and worse. And I said that in principle debate, one, in addition to the corruption and crime that adorns the government of the Republic of Serbia, which adorns the state summit of the Republic of Serbia, poor criminal and irresponsible privatisation, poor labour laws from 2000 to today, are the main reasons why the growing number of citizens of Serbia and on such a large, day-to-day basis...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-15-0.u24204	People's MPs, the time available to you as a parliamentary group has been used. Thank you. Here, I'm done, so I guess I can say one more sentence... (exclusive) At the beginning of its presentation, the National MP, and with this I warn her, has made it false, that Minister Diana Dragutinovic is not authorized to accept, reject, comment or anything else does when it comes to the draft law supplementing the Labour Act. To all MPs, a letter was sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and delivered to the National Assembly, with notice that the National Assembly's representative, when considering the above-mentioned Bill's proposal, was a proposal for a law on labour, as well as Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister. I ask you, regardless of the political attitude, to pay attention to the claims and not to lead the public astray, not to be false and thus not to disrespect the work of the session of the National Assembly. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to make the final statement? No, I don't. ) (Verica Radeta, from the place: Of course not, when she's competent. ) The People's Parliament throws away, which is prohibited by Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The second time I warn you, you, that you do not commit violence against the procedure and that by violating the Rules of Procedure, you do not bring the chairman in a position to apply the provisions which impose the criminal measures. I ask other MPs not to win. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set a day for the vote, on Thursday, July 16th 2009, starting at 13:30 a.m. as a day for voting on all agenda points of the 10th Extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Thank you.
