ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27330	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, or more than one third, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Sinisa Stamenković, Riza Halimi, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond, Susana Grubjesic and Mira Pejica. According to Article 88(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the proposing representatives, I have invited the sittings to attend: Dr Predrag Tojic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Diaspora, Miodrag Jaksic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Diaspora, Aleksandra Kotic, Secretary of the Ministry of Diaspora, Djorđe Prstojevic, Assistant Minister for Diaspora, and Vukman Krivokuća, Assistant Minister for Diaspora. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE DYASORA AND SRBIMA IN REGION (principles) The word is by MP Aleksandra Jankovic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group. He's not in the O.R. ) Since Mrs Jankovic is not present in the O.R., do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a principled search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: SPS-JS, LDP, ZES, DSS, Advanced Serbia and the SRS. I give the word first on the list in order of the MPs, Mr. Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27331	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs and MPs, the LDP passed a law somewhere in the spring of the year on the reduction of the number of ministries in the government to 12. Certainly, the law envisioned that the diaspora ministries, this ministry of Serbs outside Serbia or all of the Serbs of the world -- were gone. This law, which is before us, is proof that this ministry really shouldn't exist. After all, it is not available in most EU countries. I think there's only one in there. If this law is passed, then it is an additional reason that the ministry does not exist and that we save a little bit of taxpayers' money, but unfortunately something contrary will happen. If this law is passed, we'll have new expenses. But let's end up talking about expenses, and let's talk about what it is, in our opinion, this law. Let's talk about some kind of confusion that exists in this law. Unfortunately, this law is the result of something that has long been considered a national policy here, not only in the past 20 years or in the Milosevic era, but perhaps in the past 200 years. It's a theory by which the Serbian people are one organism wherever they live and that's a theory that takes care of that organism. The theory is wrong, seen from the results, devastating by the interests of the Serbian people, and most devastating by the interests of the state. Because he either takes care of the whole of the Serbian people and sees it as an organism, and that's how the state is ignored, or a serious state is being made, so he also takes care of the parts of the people who don't live in that country. We are, because of what they call the 'father of the nation', prisoners of this first wrong theory. For example, when the Soviet Union fell apart, the Russians wisely ruled and threw themselves at the creation of a state and now the state can help parts of the Russian people that have remained outside the borders of the current Russian Federation. This law is the best proof that even in the current government, unfortunately in the opposition, I rule out LDP, the wrong approach dominates. Because how do you explain this paternal relationship that the law provides for Serbs in the region, according to Serbs in Slovenia, Albania or Romania? Definitions of terms. The law states that diaspora includes citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad. It's diaspora. I've been such a diaspora myself for four years. I can say it differently -- and I got separated from the state of Serbia, because I didn't like it. No wonder the others are detaching. But the second paragraph of this definition says that diaspora are members of the Serb people evicted from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, from the region, and from their descendants. The emigrant is the one who moved out and took some other citizenship. These are people who have given up Serbian citizenship and they cannot objectively be diaspora. They came from here, but they took another citizenship, started some new life. And only their descendants have objectively nothing to do with the state of Serbia. This is evidence not only that the law is a slave to this wrong organic theory, which the people view as an organism, but, from our point of view, this law absolutely denies all civic values or a civil view of the state, nation and people. Why? Because the essence of the civic view is citizenship. Serbian citizens of various nationalities are those who pay taxes to this country, and you, Mr. Sredkovic, and us, and they should be focused. Ethics, origin, there's nothing to do with it. You want this law to regulate the rights of citizens of other states, say the citizen of Romania. The Serbs from Timisvar are Romanian citizens, born here, lived there for centuries, and they and their descendants are their cemeteries. If we go to that famous one in the '90s -- where the Serbian cemetery is, there are Serbian countries. There are Serb cemeterys in Temisvar, but that is not the Serbian country. These people are citizens of the Republic of Romania. To pass a law that will concern them, it would be as if in Hungary they had passed a law concerning Hungarian citizens of Serbia. On the other hand, the term parent country (where, by law, and for those Serbs from Timisovar and Romania's Banat, Serbia is a country of origin) leads to you saying that Bosniaks from Sandzak must accept that their country of origin is BiH. You use this law to tell Albanians from the Presevo Valley that their country is Albania, not Serbia. And I know many Bosniaks, few fewer Albanians, who say to themselves they are Serbians. It highlights the country's belongings, as their ancestors were born here, have nothing to do with BiH, except live in the common state at one point. As for Albanians from the Presevo Valley, they never even lived in a country that covered Albania. Therefore, the desire to include everything called Serbian or Serbian is wrong, will lead to problems with neighbouring countries and is not a good way to go towards something that the European or pro-European government wants to work on its way to the EU. After all, this regional policy, the calming of passion in the region, from confrontation to peace and co-operation, is something the EU expects from us, but unfortunately, this law is another proof that we do not want to go that way. What are the intentions of someone who continues to fantasize about a Serb organism that is wider than the Serbian state, evidence is what happens to consulates in Montenegro. Do any of you know any man who's going on a flight to the White Field? He doesn't know, but our country is asking for consulates to be opened every 100km, even though the whole of Montenegro can be visited in one day. It is evidence of this paternalism, which will not bring us closer to the EU, which will not make the suffering we have because of what happened in the 1990s. If you were consistent with your policy, that you understand that consulates and money that citizens pay for Serbian citizens, those who have Serbian citizenship regardless of what nations they are, then you would open a consulate or you would ask to open a consulate in Ulcinj. Because, in line with your agreed policy, "Kosovo is Serbia, a being, and there has been," Serbia's most citizens from Kosovo come to fly to Ulcinj, not the White Field. You will not open a consulate in Ulcinj because you will not serve Serbian citizens. After all, it might be a joke, maybe they won't come to that consulate. In any case, some who are not from Kosovo or Bar come to Ulcinj. On the other hand, you want to open a consulate, say, in Knin, where after Tudjman and Milosevic agreed, as well as in all of Croatia, the number of Serbs was halved. Tudjman and Milosevic agreed to split Bosnia, and the price was paid by Serbs from Croatia. There are no Serbs in Knin, and you are closing a consulate in Rijeka, where there really are Serbs, ethnic citizens of Croatia, and in which part of the Croatian coast there is a lot of property owned by Serbian citizens. Of course it's normal and necessary to have a consulate there. This "negation of civil," which is, above all, citizenship, and the emphasis on the first plan of ethnicity is wrong. Let me give you an example, think about it a little bit. Hungary, under one nationalist government, wanted to share passports and citizenship with all Hungarians wherever they live in the world a few years ago. There was a referendum in Hungary. That idea didn't go away. Why? Because most citizens of Hungary, Hungary, said – wait, we pay taxes, why should we now serve some citizens of foreign states, regardless of what Hungarians they are, so for example. at 65 they can also come and have a health, social pension, etc.; that's what we don't want to do. It is a civil approach, not to force Bosniaks to see Bosnia as the country of origin, and Albanians from Presevo to Albania, by saying that for Serbs from Romania or Serbs from Croatia, Serbia is the country of origin. The Serbs from Croatia rule Croatia, they are in the government, and I really don't think they need your ministry's help, Mr. Sredkovic. In Article 4, you say that the Republic of Serbia can take measures to achieve ties with emigrants from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their descendants not covered by Article 2. I don't know who is not covered by Article 2, when Article 2 includes real citizens of Serbia, i.e. The diaspora, and the others, who gave up Serbian citizenship. I guess there's some people here who aren't Serbs, they just shouldn't have written it. There's no such thing as a third. You covered everything you could cover. I say too much. Because, after all, whoever pays taxes to the state, he gets those rights by paying taxes. It's the simplest rule. Rare are states that give rights to those who don't pay taxes. As you readily understand the diaspora and Serbs in the region, it is evidence that we are present these days with harassment, say, a Serbian citizen at the border with Bulgaria driving vehicles with Bulgarian plates and dual citizenship. Now police are asking them not only for a passport and ID card from Bulgaria, as proof that they have Bulgarian citizenship and that they have the right to drive a vehicle with Bulgarian plates, but are asking for, say, a work book. After that, in fact, the unemployed in Serbia should not drive a car. What would one Serbian citizen ask for a work book, and the other would not? Confusion is general in this law. Vesna Pesic talked a lot about the Council, etc. We think it's the fundamentally wrong concept of this law. We don't mind taking care of the diaspora, but I argue, I was there, I know who represents the diaspora, they're usually organizations with one member and a seal. I am afraid that this law will come to the attention of the tourist organisation for the representatives of the diaspora that you counted in your opening presentation, which will occasionally have paid plane tickets from the Serbian state, accommodations and here something to worry about the interests of the diaspora, and when they return home, they will be able to say that only to their nearest family, because there are approximately so many members' organisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27332	Thank you. Before I give my word to Mr. Radenkovic, I would like to make an important statement. In accordance with Articles 37 and 38. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the deputy president of the parliamentary group is a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, instead of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, in the SRS parliamentary group. Mr. Radenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27333	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, the law on diaspora and Serbs in the region is the first step that represents a turning point, a clear definition of the Serbian state, with respect for international law... Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, if you could... It's not about the microphone. It's about the noise. (President: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we keep quiet a little, we may hear a better MP; if not, I will ask him to sit down. Please be quiet. Thank you. (Dear Shormaz, from the place, everyone hears me even when it is a noise. Everyone can hear me too, but you probably can't hear the noise. As I have already said, with respect for international rights and respect for Western standards of conduct, which at the same time protects both our national and national interests, and also takes care of all our people wherever they live. The legal framework is the first... Dear Shormaz, from the city: Bravo. That's untasteful of you, Mr. Shormaz. This is the parliament, after all. You've been in parliament a long time to behave like this. Thank you. ) The legal framework is a first and necessary step towards radical changes in state policy towards diaspora and Serbs from the region, which have not received the necessary attention from the state of Serbia for decades, and I hope that we will not remain on it. The high potential of the Serbian diaspora lies in its professional and professional knowledge. A significant number of people have higher education, many of which work in the most technologically powerful systems. There are estimated to be more than 5,000 doctors of science, many of whom work in top scientific institutions to develop new technologies, including genetic engineering, research into new materials and computer technologies, new sources of energy, nature protection and greatest medical achievements. The establishment of a modern partnership relationship between the queen and the diaspora cannot be achieved without defining the real status of members of the diaspora queen, especially their civil and other rights. Serbia has so far failed to even recognize who is doing everything in its diaspora. Serbia's diaspora is made up of all those people living in the world, and they consider Serbia their queen. The queen is the state with which you identify yourself with culture and tradition, the one you love, respect and defend, which you return to, and even in your mind. To prevent citizens from having a dilemma, since there was controversy yesterday and on the subject, the aim of the law is, and it is seen from the attached, that it refers to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their descendants living outside the borders of our country, regardless of national, religious and political membership, and to all members of the Serbian people who consider the state of Serbia as parent. So, I underline, the goal is, in accordance with international law, to cover everyone who wants to cultivate close economic, political, cultural ties with the state of Serbia. So, there's no ethnic principle, but it has a state obligation to cultivate close relations with our people. The diaspora is the political and economic emigration that has left the country most often because of the wrong policy that has led to the lack of democratic freedoms and poor living conditions, but also because of too much expectations after so-called. democratic change. Migrations are a normal phenomenon, but it's not normal to break relationships and it's not normal for the state not to care about people in the distance. Despite some earlier attempts at office relations between the diaspora and the queen, they were far from expected. We are still lagging behind countries such as Greece and Israel, Ireland, or Armenia. The diaspora has become an important factor in the economic development of India, China or Poland, which has long ceased to divide people into queens and diaspora. After all, Greece and Italy have leveled in the rights of their people in the womb and the diaspora in terms of citizenship, passports, voting rights and the like, and France also does not make a difference between the French, no matter where they are. The relationship towards diaspora and Serbs in the region should not depend on day-to-day politics and political parties. The passing of this law finally recognises the importance of diaspora and Serbs in the region, and therefore I believe that this is for Serbia and its prosperity a historic moment and a beginning that will contribute to the historic reconciliation of different parts of the same people and to the launch of a new policy, of which only the state of Serbia and each of our people will benefit, wherever they live. For all of this, we must reach a consensus on the proposed law. All the people in the diaspora have each other's ties, they just need to be able to strengthen them and enter into natural partnerships with the queen. That is why the most important institution in this law is the Parliament of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, which will be the pregnant institution of the new policy and which should actually be a symbol of the unity of the state of Serbia and of our entire national Corps. The diaspora assembly and Serbs in the region will comprise delegates from the diaspora and Serbs in the region. It is about persons who are respected in their environments and are ready to perform conservation and strengthening of the relations between the country of origin and the diaspora, as well as the country of origin and Serbs in the region, and are selected from parts of the countries where a significant number of members of the diaspora, i.e. Serbs in the region, reside. The terms and conditions of the election are agreedly determined by diaspora organisations, as well as by Serb organisations in the region, and the country of origin will in no way and must not interfere in the process of election of delegates in the assembly. In addition to representatives of resolution ministries participating in the work of the Assembly, the president of the Republic of Serbia also participates as an honorary guest in the assembly's work. The same participation sends a strong message that the state is seriously planning to address the issue of diaspora and Serbia in the environment. It is also good that the law provides for the Diaspora Assembly to form a number of advices, such as the Economic Council, the Status Affairs Council, the Council for Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Sports Cooperation. Our people in the environment are our best relationship with the countries they live in. On the one hand, Serbia must continue to encourage Serbs in the region to be loyal citizens of the countries they live in, as this will indirectly work to improve the image of both Serbia and the Serb people, and on the other hand, Serbs in the region will not feel neglected. We think it's very important. All surrounding countries are already in the EU or are on their way to becoming members, and regional co-operation and good neighbourly relations and European standards are one of the priorities of our state policy. The bill also provides for the establishment of a Council for Relations with Serbs in the region. At the head of the Council, you can see from the attached, the president of the Republic of Serbia. We believe this is of paramount importance, as the president will encourage co-operation and make an important contribution to the process of European integration and economic development of the Western Balkans. It will also be made by the Prime Minister, resolution ministers, the president of the Autonomous Region Executive Council, a representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church, as well as a commissioner for the refugees of the Republic of Serbia. Since there was a controversy on the subject yesterday, I agree with the fact that the failure, perhaps unintentional or whatever, is about the representation of representatives from another autonomous province. I think that's where we should find a model, we even have a minister for KIM, who might be able to define himself to be a member of that council. I heard some suggestions yesterday, I think they're tasteless, by the opposition, to be representatives of some communities with KIM. It's about to be said the name and last name of some opposition parties, and I don't think they belong there. The SPS-JS Parliament Club is urging all political parties to contribute in the coming period and help to develop the Strategy for the Conservation and Strengthening of State Relations and Diaspora, as well as the home states and Serbs in the region, which will define measures to improve relations both in relation to the country of origin - diaspora and the country of origin - Serbs in the region. As you have already seen, the attached law will establish the Budget Fund for Diaspora and Serbs in the region, to achieve concrete goals, such as the use, learning, preservation and care of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters, the prevention of assimilation by caring for close relations with the country of origin, as well as the strengthening of awareness of origin, the preservation and care of Serbian cultural, ethnic and religious identity, the promotion of information and promotion of cultural heritage and cultural activities and raising the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law provides for the government to educate the Diaspora Council with its decision, to consider individual issues, to give proposals, opinions and professional arguments, and to establish and conduct a policy towards the diaspora, as well as to give opinions and to propose activities that will be financed primarily by the Budget Fund for Diaspora and Serbs in the region. The council will form representatives of the resolution ministries. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislative proposal envisions registering organisations in the diaspora and Serb organisations in the region. Registration of diaspora organisations as well as records of Serb organisations in the region will be conducted by the ministry responsible for the diaspora. Finally, I would like to add and confirm that this law should be just the beginning of redefining the state's relationship with our country's countrymen living around the world outside Serbia's territory, and that this should be the only basis on which we will further develop our relations with our countrymen. Never before have the Republic of Serbia and its state-run summit attached so much importance to the issues of diaspora and Serbs in the region and dealt with this problem this thoroughly. I would particularly like to highlight the importance of the SPS contribution, the SPS-JS parliamentary group, because it is important for us to have a relationship with diaspora and Serbs in the region, because they have multiple importance, both in the process of European integration and in the construction of modern Serbia. By adopting this law, we show for the vast majority another way and in another case Serbia's determination to become a serious state. The SPS-JS parliamentary club will declare positively on this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27334	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27335	The Honored Chairman, Mr. Srekovic, respected fellow MPs, respected representatives of the diaspora and respected Serbs in the region, after this assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia normably arranged 230 areas, passed 230 laws and 70 other acts, so he brought about 300 legal acts to the MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia, a law that was crucial to all Serbs and citizens of Serbia living outside the borders of our country, especially for Serbs in the region, most of whom lived within the borders of the former Yugoslavia until its disintegration, and are now separated from the queen. According to estimates heard by the minister, close to four million Serbs live outside Serbia's borders, so almost half of the number that lives in the Republic of Serbia. We are one of the countries that has a high percentage of people living outside the borders of the country of origin. The fact, on the one hand, is negative, if we assume that many villages and areas of Serbia have been released because of economic migration, that we have lost a lot of professional staff, etc. (not to list the negative consequences). But if this is a negative side, the positive circumstances are that our people are our ambassadors around the world, that from our diaspora we have a very stable foreign exchange inflow (which we do not have in the balance), that some of the capital through foreign investments can and should be from our diaspora, so be it, to be a bit picturesque, and that we are not on the 'Eurovision' Song without a vote from Sweden or that our Serbian team will not be anywhere abroad without religious fans of Serbia. Let us not forget their voices and messages from numerous meetings around the world, when it was difficult to be a Serb and a citizen of Serbia in and outside its borders. It's a reality, but the reality is that, because of everything that's been happening to us for the past 20 years, we've forgotten very well on the diaspora. Serbian children and children of other nationalities who have left Serbia do not have a lot of opportunities to attend Serbian schools, there is little hearing of state radio and state television outside Serbia's borders, there are few cultural events in our diaspora in which our theatres participate, and we are estranged from nearly four million Serbs and Serbian citizens who are beyond our borders. The government recognized this problem and found the strength to create a legal proposal that would regulate this area in the national interest. I wouldn't say that the previous governments were reckless, but there were always more things than our countrymen outside the borders. That is why this government deserves praise and therefore this government, I am convinced, will be written in gold letters in our diaspora and Serbs in the region, Serbs in Croatia, Slovenia, BiH (Republics of Serbia and the Federation), Montenegro, Macedonia, Romania, Hungary, Albania, but also in Serbs across Europe, America and Australia. I can't help but look back now on some exposure here yesterday by the opposition, primarily LDP and DSS. The statements of both these parliamentary clubs had exactly the same tone, they simply couldn't tell the difference. I recommend that the DSS gentlemen, before they go and ask for the opinion of the Venice Commission, since they have a room in the Novi Sad Vojvod Brigade in the building where the humanitarian center for integration and tolerance, where Mr Bubalo, a legal expert in the field of comparative law, is also consulted with him on comparative law, since the parallel law, and I do not think this law, has been read either. I'm really sorry that this party acted this way towards the Serbian diaspora and Serbs in the region. On the other hand, it is very strange that Mr Ostojic said that when he left Serbia for four years, he broke away from Serbia. I must admit that I first heard the expression that someone leaving Serbia is temporarily or permanently detached from his country. Mr Ostojić also said a very dangerous finding, that the Serbs are no longer in Knin. You know, there are five times fewer Serbs in Knin than there were in the Storm, but there are. There are 200,000 Serbs living in Croatia and we must not say that the Serbs are not in Croatia, because this means that we will forget about these people and we will not think about them. This government will certainly not do so and I am sure that this law will receive support in parliament. Something else was interesting yesterday, in the presentation of the LDP's authorised representative. When it came to the recognitions that would be established under this law, a very sarcastic one spoke of the "Mother of Serbia" award, so some deminutive was given, in the sense of "Mother of Serbia", and the whole group, as many as there were, two or three, laughed at the meeting yesterday. I don't see anything funny in the name of that award, and I think any Serb living in a diaspora or in a region with great honor will receive that award. Of course, if he deserves it. We could also call this law a system law for this area. It is defined what a diaspora is and who makes Serbs in the region, but has also established what the obligations of the ministry, government, president of the Republic and even local self-government are on this plan. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is in Article 13. I remind you, and the political parties that are against this law, apparently, voted in favour of this constitution. Article 13. The constitution, chapter "Citizens and Serbs abroad", states, among other things, that the Republic of Serbia is developing and promoting the relations of Serbs living abroad with the country of origin. I remind you now of the SNS MPs. Otherwise, I truly appreciate Mr. Rogovic's involvement on the Committee, but the concern of the diaspora is not only that you would go to Ravne Kotara and drink white or black wine, or that you would eat a face lamb in Donji Lapac, but that you would also vote in favour of the diaspora law in the day of voting, and then you might go to Knin and Donji Lapac. I would point out another constitutional provision, which shows that in this respect our Constitution is very open to and pre-national minorities living in Serbia, so in the chapter "Right to Association and to Co-operation with fellow Americans", they are guaranteed the right to uninterrupted ties and co-operation with their countrymen outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What was the situation so far? We have the Ministry of Diaspora, we have the Directorate for the Neighbours, and that's it. We didn't have any legal regulations, we don't have an operational structure that deals with these issues, and when you don't have the law, you don't have too many legal opportunities to form budgets for that purpose. Our situation was such that the relationship with Serbs in the diaspora and in the region depended more on the energy of certain ministers, their assistants and other people in the state structure and functioned on the principle of a second priority, as other topics were always imposed as a priority. This law creates a commitment to the state of Serbia, and I would say it gives it the right to care for its non-residents in Serbia. Under the law, the government determines the country of origin's policy according to the diaspora, as well as the Serbs in the region, which is being conducted by the ministry responsible for the diaspora, as well as by other authorities of the state administration, under the law of the established area, and there is a clear law. The competent ministry is required to establish the Strategy for the Conservation and Strengthening of State and Diaspora Relations, as well as the countries of origin and Serbs in the region and the measures to be taken for its development. I would like to invite the Minister and the Ministry to make this strategy available as soon as possible. It is very important that the diaspora and Serbs in the region, according to the law, will receive their assembly representing the whole diaspora and Serbs from the region through their representatives. The Assembly will educate the Economic Council of Diaspora, the Board for the Status Issues of Diaspora, the Council for Cultural, Educational, Scientific and Sports Cooperation, and I am sure that the voice of this assembly will also be heard in the Government. In order to implement a draft strategy related to diaspora and Serbs in the region, it is necessary to provide certain resources. That is why the establishment of the Budget Fund for Diaspora and Serbs in the region is envisioned. In all countries, the diaspora and Serbs in the region are not the same. Perhaps the most significant part of this law is the one relating to Serbs in the region. Given the problem of Serbs in the region and the slowness of its resolution, the establishment of a Council on Relations with Serbs in the region, which will take care of Serbs in the region, Serbs in Slovenia, the Republic of Croatia, BiH, Montenegro, the Republic of Macedonia, Romania, Albania and the Republic of Hungary, is envisaged. At the head of this council will be the President of the Republic and will certainly give this council great importance. It will include the Prime Minister, resolution ministers and a representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church. In this way, it is given the importance of this council, and it has been established a very specific competence. Since no one has cited these powers so far, I will count some: it proposes measures for the competent authorities to improve economic co-operation with Serbs in the region; it is considering issues and proposing to resolve the return of Serbs to former residences, for those people who had to avoid them, and proposing measures to protect their rights in order to return them to the region (I think that this jurisdiction is very important for people who had to avoid their homes); it is considering issues relating to the use, learning, preservation and care of the Serbian language and religious identity of Serbs in countries in the region; then it is the issue of informing Serbs in the region about events in the Republic of Serbia, etc. A number of responsibilities related to this council and which will be very important for improving the quality of life and preserving the identity of Serbs in the region. In addition to the Council, it is very important that the Serbian Parliament will also, hopefully, have a board for Serbs in the region in the future and will control the implementation of this law. Since there have been a lot of controversy these days as to whether we need this law or not, and since some MPs are obviously uninformed, debated in the sense that there is no such law anywhere in the world, that this is our originality, yet, if they do not go to the Vojvodina Brigade, I will read to them and point out several provisions of parallel law, as some other countries have arranged this area. Let's say we don't go far, the Republic of Slovenia may be a good example. In a normative sense, Slovenia has gone the farthest in this respect. She passed the Law on Slovenia's relations with Slovenians beyond its borders, i.e. beyond its borders, in 2006. Slovenia has adopted two resolutions from this area, gentlemen - Resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world (2002) and Resolution on the position of Slovenian indigenous minorities in neighbouring countries and, in this respect, the obligations of state and other bodies, as early as 1996, means immediately after independence. The Slovenian government has brought in, which is very important, the Funding and Support Regulation for the maintenance and development of the identities of Slovenians outside Slovenia's borders. Slovenia has only four committees in parliament and one of them is beyond its borders for Slovenians. The fundamental principle, given in Article 5 of this Law of Slovenia, is that 'the Slovenians are in neighbouring countries and in the world equal to the part of the Slovenian people'. The position of the 2nd member states that "the Republic of Slovenia is the home country of all Slovenes outside its borders and the protector of indigenous Slovenian national groups in neighbouring countries." The same law says that the areas of neighbouring countries in which an indigenous Slovenian national group lives and the Republic of Slovenia form a common Slovenian cultural space. Article 7 says that care for Slovenians in the neighbourhood and the world is an essential part of the policy of the Republic of Slovenia. This law has a hundred members, I won't be able to read them all. Both of these strategies have been elaborated. In that sense, this law can certainly be a good example of our legislation. The Republic of Croatia has about three and a half million Croats in the diaspora, no special law, but has detailed the area in several laws. If it is tried according to information from 26 June 2009 in the press, a version of the law on the relationship of the Republic of Croatia to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia has been made. Croatia has in a specific way, perhaps somewhat controversial, resolved the issue of the electoral right of Croats living outside its borders, the electoral right of citizens who do not have residence in Croatia, by forming a special constituency in which they elect their representatives to the Assembly. This primarily applies to Croats living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. BiH has about a million and three hundred thousand people in emigration, has government bodies dealing with these issues, and many parties are seeking to pass diaspora laws and immigration queen laws. Macedonia has a large diaspora, somewhere around 900,000 emigrants, has a constitutional provision on diaspora, while the law on foreign affairs has also settled the issue. In 2001, the Hungarian Republic drafted a law on Hungarians living next door, but it was not brought in because of some legal originality that would likely be partially modified. Here is France, if it can be our reputation, as one of the most important countries of the European Union. It's a very important concern for the French living outside France. France, within the framework of the government, has a High Council for French abroad. It's a roof institution operating within the Foreign Ministry. Interestingly, members of the High Council for French abroad (please, this is very important) are one of the mandated candidates for President of the Republic of France. In addition, evidence of concern for the French outside France is the fact that they have the right to their representatives in the Senate. So the French outside France elect 12 representatives to the Senate and the condition is that they must live outside France, so they cannot be members of diplomatic and consular representations. I wouldn't talk too much about Ireland since you know she has a huge diaspora. She practically established a system of the so-called virtual Ireland. Even its development concept is explored in connection with its countrymen living outside the borders of Ireland. Significant support and significant investment in Ireland comes from its diaspora. Italy has the Italian Ministry outside Italy and the Foreign Ministry has jurisdiction in this area. Perhaps the originality of Italian legislation is the fact that in diplomatic representations in the world, where more than 3,000 Italians live, they form committees of Italians in the world. They have a number of tasks and are all about proposing measures for the Italian government's social and cultural measures towards Italians in the country. This is kind of a pandan for this assembly that will be built by our diaspora. I don't think there's any need for us to waste a lot of words on Israel. He has a number of diaspora and the government of this country has very big concerns about its diaspora. I deliberately did not mention those countries you know enough about – Spain, Greece, Romania, Russia, etc., about how they take care of their diaspora. In the end, it can be concluded from this that editing this area is none of our originality. Moreover, I believe this is necessary for the sake of us living here and Serbs outside Serbia's borders and, of course, other citizens who see Serbia as their country of origin. On the other hand, we believe that the political unity of the position and the opposition should be expressed here and that this is a law that will be a great temptation for the opposition to be against or abstention. It is likely that our diaspora and Serbs in the region will already know how the law (some have already learned yesterday) will be declared by the opposition parties, who have so far declared that they are against this law. I'd be very pleased to hear their definitive response to this bill. Of course I'm in favour of respecting all the amendments that amend this law and surely the Ministry will hear about it. I once again congratulate the government on preparing this law. I, like DS MPs, will vote in favour of the diaspora law and Serbs in the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27336	The right to replica has the mandated representative of the DSS political party, Mr Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27337	I didn't mention any MPs, so I don't know why you needed it. I'm going to try to be very tolerated. No one here has disputed that this law is necessary for both the Serbian diaspora and the Serbian state, but we have made arguments here and proved in the first run that this is a bad response to the needs of our citizens who do not live in Serbia. So this is a law that is not for diaspora. This is a law written for a political party. And the Serbian diaspora gave the best answer – either it attacked this law or it was aggressively silent about this law. That's what we were talking about here. You obviously wrote your speech, and that's good, so you can add your thoughts together and not miss something. But you missed one very important thing. You haven't read your head of Parliament's stenographic notes. If you had read that speech, which was written yesterday, before Mrs. Hope Kolundji's presentation, he would have been acceptable. It is not now, because Mrs Nada Kolundzija has also expressed reservations and doubts about many things both for the Assembly and for the duration of the term of office and for many of the institutions that are forming here. Next time, listen carefully to what the head of your parliamentary group tells you. When you talk about parallel law, you spent 15 minutes, it's of course your right, but I really don't know what this is about. You're saying that France has 12 members in the Senate. Do you suggest that Serbia has a two-home assembly? If so, then come on, open that question. You're talking about Slovenians "out of bounds", so you're talking about the rights of indigenous minorities. Do you know that Serbs are not an indigenous minority in Slovenia? Yeah, well, that's what we should worry about, isn't it? Do you even know that President Tadic opened the issue when he recently visited Slovenia? What are you talking about? You listed here from some brochures something about legal regulation, about borders, about diaspora, so here you are now reading and spending both your time and ours. You are talking about the case of Croatia, which is quite the opposite of the solution offered here. They have the Croatian queen of emigrants and they all gather around them. They don't have the law, but they have a successful relationship with their diaspora, far more successful than we do. So, what you've all numbered here and what you've collected, in the end it gives us the right to say once again that this law is not written for diaspora. The law is politically motivated to build its infrastructure for a political party, which has three mandates already held by the ministry. That's what this is about. It is simply irrefutable that this is not how the Assembly can be established, it cannot be effective and that these advices are very problematic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27338	Thank you, we understand. The word is made by the head of the ZES Group, Nada Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27339	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm always surprised to see how much someone can abuse what someone else says. I unequivocally said that the ZES parliamentary group would support this law. We absolutely support this law and consider it an extremely important step made by the Ministry of Diaspora by proposing this law to the National Assembly. There's no dispute about it. I have in no way questioned the unambiguous support of this law. So what has been identified as the country's priority is both the interest of diaspora and Serbs living in the region. What has been identified as the basic objectives of this law, to which the state has legitimateized its position on such important issues, is absolutely not controversial to us, in no way at all, and we have not questioned it. I don't want to see what I've put forward as my dilemmas about efficiency in certain stages of the application of this law... But I have said many times that there is no perfect law and there are no perfect circumstances. Under certain circumstances, we make laws in accordance with these circumstances. As the circumstances of the law change, we are, of course, always ready to go out again and say, yes, we are now promoting legislation, because life has created conditions in which this regulation is being improved. Please, don't use me to argue, I stand absolutely behind every word Mr. Janko Veselinović has said about this law. What for me, as someone who's been dealing with diaspora and knows the problems within the diaspora, was the question, did we predict all the instruments that we're going to give the best answer to what the demands are. Also, I have to tell you, I know very well that these solutions, which create a dilemma for me whether they are effective enough, the solutions sought by the representatives of the diaspora, or by the representatives of the Serbs in the region. So, it was their request that in this way diaspora be involved in solving common problems, which, of course, remains for all, especially the Ministry, to see how the most effective way will achieve the possibility that these issues, that is, all of this is extremely important... I absolutely don't want to argue with those who claim...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27340	And time's up. The word is Dr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the DHSS, I support the adoption of such a law. I don't think he's going to solve the diaspora problem, but it's important as a first step, as the first step in changing the state's relationship to the diaspora, because that relationship has been absolutely maternal so far. Rarely, the country in the world had such a negative and reluctant attitude towards its diaspora as was the case with the state of Serbia, which has a number of diaspora. On the contrary, in many countries the influence of the diaspora is also significant, often very dominant for both political and economic developments in these countries. Of course, we have several categories of diaspora, one that remained abroad before World War II and their descendants, immediately after those tragic events in World War II and their descendants, then one wave of socio-economic diaspora and, most tragically, the departure of hundreds of thousands of young people who fled the regime of Slobodan Milosevic. And that needs to be said out loud and clear. You remember the mile in front of certain embassies. That's the most tragic thing. I've met these young people around the world -- young, smart, educated, beautiful. They did it, but there. They got apartments, they got houses, but they're gonna have to pay every cent. They live decently and pleasantly, living off their work, but you see sorrow in their eyes and sorrow in their hearts. Serbia is their country. That's why this law is significant symbolically, as a message that something is changing, that there will be no more of this maternal relationship. You remember what Danton once wrote to Robespeer – "It's not a problem when people move from one region to another, not when they go from one country to another, but it's a problem that you can't get out of the sun, a cricket of birds or graves of ancestors to the soles of shoes." We need to show our people the desire to come back, because there's a smart, there's ideas, influences, capital, and that's what needs to be used. How many people vote in the diaspora when the elections are? He's more out of here than he's saying there. It's that stepmom relationship. I have also suggested that the minister of diaspora be affected, because we have some old structure of diplomatic and consular representations, which has nothing to do with reality. I have proposed to Minister Jeremic, I hope he can hear me and he will do so. For example, in Malta you have 3,000 of our people, 1% of the population of Malta are citizens of Serbia. It's a similar situation in Dubai. You don't even have a consular office there. You should go to Rome. The plane flies five minutes longer than Belgrade to Malta than from Rome to Malta. And those from Dubai should report to Cairo. That doesn't make sense. So, I think that relationship should change. But it will not only change by law, but by content, by doing, by works. If they have the peripetitis to get travel documents, if they have peripetia in paying tolls, various taxes, taxis, jobs when they return to the country, problems with investing their capital in Serbia... A lot of people tried to come back, so they ran away forever. Tom needs to get in the way. Because if it goes on like that, I'm afraid that we're going to have the same or more people in the white world in a few years' time than we are here. There, on distant meridians, with sorrow in their hearts, they seek their happiness and the future. Like all normal people, I look forward to a white Schengen, but I'm afraid of the fact that 70% of high school students want to go abroad. It's genocide towards its own people. That's why the state needs to do a lot here to create opportunities for these young, smart, educated people to stay here, not to go into the white world, so we don't have to bring any new laws on diaspora again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27342	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Bozidar Delic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27343	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly it was necessary to regulate relations in this area, in order to achieve better results in collaboration with our diaspora, and ultimately, other countries in the region have regulated these issues either through one law or this issue is in several laws. On the other hand, there's a need for one of these laws. However, by reading the law, it was particularly interesting to me, Mr. Minister, that I did not find anywhere, and it is not in the law, that the Emerging Mother of the Republic of Serbia was mentioned. If you don't get me wrong, I didn't expect you to dedicate a chapter, a member, or even a position, but if we already have in the law a Council on Relations with Serbs in the region and the Diaspora Council, it is my opinion that as one member of one or the other or both of the councils should have been a representative of the Mother of the Movers of the Republic of Serbia. It's kind of weird. When the 2008 budget was adopted and the 2009 budget was adopted, we insisted that the funds for the Republika Srpska emigrants were highlighted in the planned funds. The SNS is special, when the 2009 budget was adopted, it was sought and explained by the Emigrants' Mother. On one occasion, the finance minister set out exactly what the funds were defined for the Serbian Emigrant Matica. A few days ago, the annual assembly of the Emigrant Mother was held. We spoke with delegates at the SNS MPs' club, and then we found out that, we thought that the problem was solved, but no single Ms. Emigration Mother got this year. If you want to put away any organization or destroy it, it will be the easiest thing to do if you cancel its funding. The emigrants' mother has been existing for almost 70 years, and she has only two employees. I don't know how many Diaspora Ministry, probably 50 or 60 people, I don't want to make any mistakes about it, but certainly the Emigrant Mother should survive. And it can only survive if you try. If through this law you say you are showing concern for the Serbs in the diaspora, then you should also show that care to the organisation. I expect you'll do it. By reading this law, I noticed one other thing. And in this government, it's often said that there will be reconstructions, so there will be no reconstructions. I don't expect it to be. But you, writing this law, simply went into the future, because the law is written so that if another government, precisely because it thinks there should be fewer ministries, might predict that there should be no Ministry of Diaspora, this law will still apply. That's what I say, and that's good. I think every ministry, after all, should work that way. I expect you to answer me concerning the Emigrant Matika.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27344	The word has Minister Sredkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27345	I planned to finally address the MPs in relation to all proposals and suggestions, but since Mr Delic has asked a specific question, I will answer specifically. As far as the Diaspora Ministry is concerned, there is absolute readiness and the mood for the Serbian government to partially finance the work of the Emigrant Mother. What we are doing within our more than modest budgets, and I will say that the budget of the Diaspora Ministry is 120 million dinars (I have not sinned for one zero, is not one billion and two hundred and 12 billion), that is 0.025% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia. In line with our capabilities, we support projects of all our associations and organisations that work to improve the relations of the diaspora, or Serbs in the region towards the country of origin, and in this regard we have also supported projects of the Emigrant Mother. I support this initiative and, as far as I'm concerned, we, as a ministry, will propose that financial resources, which are not really large, be found in the budget for next year, so that the Emigrant Mother can function. But at this point, it's not possible within the Ministry of Diaspora because our budget is really negligible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27346	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Žika Gojkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27347	Dear President, Mr. Minister and members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my presentation, I will read only two sentences from a letter from the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic, so that there will be no confusion in the further discussion: "The position is the Office of the President of the Republic to fully regulate relations between the Republic of Serbia and its institutions with diaspora and Serbs in the region. This creates an adequate legal framework for achieving and further developing the diaspora and Serbs in the region with the Republic of Serbia in all areas of social, cultural and economic life." This is only one of the evidence that the SPO in its work is working with its coalition partners and that, as the only representatives of right-wing European Serbia, we will do so in the future. I must admit that it has already become common for opposition individuals to be tough and exclusive when it comes to proposals coming from the ruling coalition. We are also used to the draft laws being criticised by flat-rate and superficial statements, which clearly shows the degree of politics in the heads of certain people, who are just calling for politics in the making of this law. Unfortunately, some of these people aren't here in the O.R. I'm not the kind of guy who likes to talk behind his back, but these are the things that have to be said after all. Some of these people are so burdened by the SPO and consumed with anger that they've brought out a series of nonsense, so we've had a chance to hear certain terms like the infrared structure. Traditionally uninformed patriots forgot that the 2004 SPI initiative was founded by the Ministry of Diaspora, and that this is the second term and not the third, and we are proud of it. Until then, the diaspora was dealt with by recalibrating diaspora, liquidating more visible representatives, robbing them in various ways through customs, police, tolls and similar creative influences during their visits to their homeland, especially after 1945. We had a chance to see in one of the insiders the testimony of a certain Mr. Stupar about the state's relationship to the diaspora. Mr. Rogovic, in my opinion of the very quality of exposure yesterday, presented several very important facts that confirm why it is necessary to pass one of these laws and why it is necessary for the Ministry of Diaspora to exist. I wouldn't repeat what he said, I'm just going to look back at some of the data that he missed or that maybe they deserve to do it again. The number of people of Serbian origin abroad is between three and four million, representing nearly two-thirds of the domestic population. One third of that population lives in America, about 700,000 lives in Germany, which is the largest part of our population in Europe. The 1990s led to about 400,000 people leaving our country, and of those 400,000 people about 30,000 were highly educated. Unfortunately, despite all the stories of corruption, crime and affairs, few people from any government have dealt with this problem so far, nor have the media ever wanted this story out. I had a chance to stay in America recently and hear how much it cost one year in one of the mediocre colleges. Forty thousand dollars costs years of study. Some have calculated that a finished student leaving the country costs the country 200 to 250 000 euros. If we look at and figure out how many people have left so far, we'll see that it's actually the biggest regular robbery of this country and that it's just amazing that the state has been dealing with this problem to this day or not at all. There is also one piece of information that I believe is news to many of you, and it is very important to hear it. There are several hundred highly educated young people who are now employed by foreign administrations. It is a terrible potential for this country and I think that, apart from the Ministry of Diaspora, many more serious institutions need to deal with this problem. The bill, as well as the formation of the ministry, is a far-reaching matter, which has nothing to do with any ideology, but aims exclusively to improve the situation of Serbian citizens living abroad and others who are of Serbian ethnic origin, their political representation, the creation of conditions for their inclusion in the political, economic and cultural life of the queen and, finally, the creation of conditions for their return, especially those who escaped from this country in the 1990s. You have to say what three very important factors are and what's most important is how our diaspora was created. These are: the economic -- the pursuit of a better standard of living because of the poor situation in the country, the high unemployment, poverty and absence of perspective; then ideological factors -- is the reason for the prevailing ideology, especially after the establishment of the communist regime in 1945, and then recently, because of the regime of the 1990s; and finally, humanitarian reasons -- a large number of refugees and asylum seekers in the EU who were forced to leave their hearths due to the international recognition of independent states in the territory of former Yugoslavia. I don't want to talk about the importance of passing this law, as well as the positive things in it, because all those who are well-intentioned see it. I just want to point out that the Ministry has well recognised that it is impossible to create an appropriate image and strengthen the sense of belonging to the queen, unless it is working on the exchange and dissemination of knowledge and information, on a daily basis, and through new media, such as satellite television, the Internet, as well as through traditional conferences, anniversaries, visits to migrants and their descendants. What may be most important and where a very small shift has been made so far, it is enabling political participation by their vote and something that might be a step forward, which is the introduction of a diaspora representative into power. There are examples like this, and I think Serbia could think very seriously about it. The diaspora should have the right to participate actively in the discussions, and this ministry recognized, which concerns, of course, their needs, the quality of everyday life in the country of reception, but also issues of development of the queen and her needs. One of the prominent objectives of this ministry is to create a database on media and diaspora organisations, its clubs, leaders, i.e. Important individuals abroad. For those who have had some doubts about this law, it should be said that this law is living matter, that improving relations with the diaspora in the future will certainly lead to some changes to this law, and all the irregularities we have had to hear on both the Committee and the discussion yesterday, probably and which will come today, will be governed by sublaws. I've seen a handful of amendments to this law. I hope that the majority of the amendments are well-intentioned and that the applicants will finally appear when it is Voting Day and that they will vote in favour of these amendments that they propose, not just declaratively to advocate some issues, as has been the case so far. We've also touched the budget this ministry has. For those of you who don't know, Mr. Sretkovic just said the number. In order to compare, I'll just tell you that this ministry has a budget that is less than the cabinets of individual ministers. These people are very rational and pragmatic about both their work and the making of this law. It's one true call to national unification, much greater than any party could do. Of course, the SPO will vote in favour of the bill, the first diaspora law ever proposed by this state, and we call on everyone to support it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27348	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, if she wishes. You have to put on a card and press the key. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27349	I'm sorry, I went out for a moment, and the card was left out, as I usually do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will make sure that very heartily, but reasonedly, in the way that DSS MPs have repeatedly defended the law in the Assembly, or spoken highly of those things that are not good in law. Before I start talking about the law itself, I'd like to draw attention to a series of interesting things that this law follows. First of all, there is a law before us, without the government setting a policy towards the diaspora and Serbs in the region. Also, on the grounds that there has been a wide public debate, above all in the diaspora. Many alliances, associations, many organizations and clubs have no idea that this law is in front of us today. Not even the Emigrant Mother has been consulted on this law. Next, I have to say another very interesting thing. It has been mentioned several times here - the opinion of the Venice Commission on this law does not exist. What's interesting is that the ruling coalition, every time it knows that the law can't pass with the Venice Commission, passed that law before the Assembly, and it's acting crazy, like -- it doesn't matter. I would like to remind you that the Information Act, recently adopted, has also been passed without the opinion of the Venice Commission. Of course, according to the diaspora news, and believe that we have consulted many from the diaspora, for them this law represents nothing new and anything special. For them, other things are vital to life, such as the law on restitution, the different banking system, the laws of the direct investment set. I will begin to comment on this law, therefore very argumentably, from the statement by Minister Sretkovic, who says this -- the new law is a fundamental turn in politics towards dissipation, because three million of our people around the world will, for the first time, be given the opportunity to actively engage in social, economic and political developments in Serbia, but also get support from Serbia that has been missing for years. I don't know in what form that support will be, given how you said it yourself, how big your budget is. But let's start talking specifically about this law, very argumentatively. Members 15-23, for those who think we speak casually. I'll go from the first Potemkin village, and there are more in this law. You call him the Parliament. You say the Assembly will be 44 delegates and you offer the criterion that these persons are respected in the environment in which they live and that organisations in the diaspora should agree on this in agreement. That's what the bill says. First, it's a completely unclear criterion and it's not a criterion for being respected in its midst. You just need to figure out what the facts are. It's so fluid and undefined that it leaves a big room for manipulation. Secondly, I assume that in your ministry you have at least a dozen listed clubs, associations and organisations of Serbs living outside Serbia or in the region. You also know that among these organisations, which are completely diverse, mostly with regard to internal policy, Serbia's foreign policy, in terms of economic policy, culture, religion, there is a complete discrepancy. And now you expect those organizations on the ground to surprise one delegate candidate, who they will deliver to you. I can tell you that's almost impossible. Take the example that in Scandinavia, in Sweden alone, you have 50 different and diverse organizations. Do you expect to be offered only one candidate? What if he offers you five candidates? What if he offers you ten candidates? If you get 50 candidates? Who is he who will choose this one candidate and on what basis will he do so? Let's assume that the criteria you've given, that these are respected persons in your midst, are to be fully satisfied. How are you going to choose that one? Of course, you say you won't get involved. But obviously, from what you've written, that you have to get involved, someone has to get involved. This means that you will choose some similar party people, because from the diaspora we are getting comments that mostly, where this debate was held, it was done among the like, those who are prone to this government. So they tell you from the diaspora that you'll only fight them more. Let's move on. You can't tell how long the Parliament's term is - it's not in the law. You do not say how long the delegation's term will be - it does not say in the law. You don't say in the law who will be bound by the decisions made by this congregation. According to everything that's written here, it's a solemn assembly, which will gather once a year on a day that you say you will celebrate, but is not celebrated among Serbs. There's just no reason for us to make one of these bodies, which will only be a candlestick. On the other hand, the way you imagined it would create chaos, it would upset people on the ground and give you open space to decide which people you would choose. Organisations that have come to us, and I have taken many comments from websites from many organisations, say the minister even has photos of candidates who will be delegates. That's how you imagine democracy. Here, it is democratic and what you have written now – the government determines the country's policy towards diaspora and Serbs in the region, and the minister of diaspora is implementing it. Where is the Council of the Republic of Serbia? She's gone. Where are the diaspora people? Where are the Serbs from the region? They're gone. The government knows best, both Minister Sredkovic and Boris Tadic, how they will determine politics. So, you will simply determine a policy towards Serbs in the region and politics towards Serbs in the diaspora without asking them what it should look like. Next, form the Budget Fund. You say it is a budget fund, and by doing so, you are misleading not only the citizens of Serbia and the MPs of the Assembly, but also the people of the diaspora. How can there be some budget fund if you foresee the possibility that money in that fund is coming out of the budget? You say, two -- comes from donations, three -- from some other sources. When the money comes from the diaspora (you assume that they will mostly need to donate, right? The money will be managed by you, the Ministry of Diaspora, or the chief minister. The minister, as many times as we've done so far... Look, it's not your original act, there are those who reminded you, sitting in the government, because they were celebrated in the '90s, just by robbing the diaspora and making that diaspora ratio to question everything that comes from the queen. So, you'll have the diaspora money. Excuse me, please, that's a little much. I'm not sure the diaspora gave you permission to have her money that way. To prove that I am "fat" right when I say this and that this is an argument, not a flat-rate assessment, I will remind you of the statement by Minister Sretkovic, which "Fonet" delivered in 8.9.9. He says Serbia needs a new patriotism of the Western type. We've talked about this more than once. Minister of Climate, but he didn't explain to us what he meant by that patriotism of the Western type. Patriotism is patriotism and the love of the country is the love of the country, I don't know that there is a Western, eastern, southern and northern type, unless the minister thinks that the patriotism of the Western type implies that the diaspora gives money and that it spends it. So the government of the Republic of Serbia and the minister say patriotism and love for the country are measured by the amount of euros delivered to this ministry. Let's continue to comment. Let's take a look at the composition of the Council. Article 29, not at all: "The members of the Council are: President of the Republic of Serbia (based on what I realized last night, the President thanked for this honour); Prime Minister; Minister of Foreign Affairs; Minister of Diaspora; Minister of Education; Minister of Culture; Minister of Faith; Minister of Finance; President of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina; Representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church; Commissioner for Refugees of the Republic of Serbia". Well, it's a state body, and this is a state body, sir. Why is there supposed to be a state organ here? Excuse me, if you're building a Council on Relations with Serbs in the region, do you think there should be representatives from the region? Not to say another thing, which is scandalous. As the law comes to the Assembly, we are witnesses that the government forgets somehow, I don't know how, that there is another province in Serbia, that it is called Kosovo and Metohija. How come there's no place here for a representative of the Serb municipality community with KIM? I don't know how you forgot that detail, and it's particularly scandalous what you explained yesterday. Let's do some more interesting things. When we look well at this law, and believe that we have really worked with very professional people, and indeed the comments on this law have been removed from the websites of various organisations, we see only one thing - since the Diaspora Council and the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region will take over the responsibility and competences of the Ministry of Diaspora, I suppose this ministry will then cease to exist. That's totally logical. Given the circumstances of the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. that we are bankrupt, although one of the officials should say, it is quite clear that this ministry, when this law is passed, should not exist. But that's why Minister Sretkovic came to think of it, and he came to think of it because he explained to us in his statement that the area of his ministry is a journey, which, of course, is not... It is his job to make a link between organisations, to ensure conditions that Serbs living in the region and outside Serbia can function better and be connected to the queen. It's his job, not his trip. So, the minister came to the sense and, as you look at this law, you see that various powers in this law are to be taken over by the Ministry of Diaspora. It's already got that jurisdiction. Why do they need the law now for those powers? So, one is too high, or law or ministry. The law is necessary, the ministry, unfortunately, according to the results, is not. So that there is no flat-rate assessment that the DSS criticises without arguments, here's what the representatives of the organization say. For example, the president of the Serbian United Congress, Mrs Samardzija, warns that the ministry is politicised and that the issue of the queen's relations with the diaspora will remain unserious and unprofessional as long as it is part of the party's prey. Please, none of the DSS MPs have written. Let's move on, I'll do one more, I won't torture you anymore. So here's the president, Mr. Predrag Golubovic. He is the president of the renewed Serbian People's Defence branch and says this: "This policy that is on stage in the country is contrary to our basic performance settings. To be clear, we are not against Europe, America, Russia, China and other forces of the West, the East, the North, the South. On the contrary, we are in favour of co-operation with everyone, but without the subjective and condescending relations, and especially not to the long-term damage of the Serbian people, and that is what seems right now." So, just two, and when they're amended, I'll read you a lot more. What can I say next? This is a very perfidious attempt, a dangerous attempt to abuse the diaspora and play on a map of political division, an attempt that should bring a new dissension amongst the loose cohesion of Serbs living outside Serbia anyway and make room for party action for a party party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27350	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Alexander Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27351	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry of Diaspora, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, firstly I would like to point out that the draft law on diaspora and Serbs in the region has been supported by the Resorial Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. SPO MPs, within the ZES parliamentary group, will support this law, and I am confident that most MPs, because this is a very important law, which is very high-quality, which is a result of the various proposals and opinions which have been delivered during a very long period of time, which was available to all interested in making known about this legal text, given that it has been in public debate for more than six months, that it entered the assembly procedure on 13 May this year. This law, when adopted, will represent its own, free to say without exaggeration, the constitution of our diaspora. This is a very significant basic system law, since for the first time in our legal history one of these texts is being adopted. It will have great importance to improve the relationship between the country of origin and a very large number of our diaspora. Of course, the law is based on the constitutional provisions of the country's highest legal act, which was adopted in 2006, and will for the first time regulate a very significant area that concerns a large number of what our citizens living abroad, which is members of the Serb people, above all in the region. The importance of eviction, of the importance of diaspora, of the importance of Serbs in the region is best told by data, facts. Although the 2002 census found that 415,000 citizens of Serbia are abroad, the number is incomparably higher and it is estimated that at least 3,000,000 of our citizens and countrymen live on five continents in over 100 countries of the world, that they are organized into more than 1,000 organisations, alliances, clubs and associations, that there are more than 350 temples of the Serbian Orthodox Church around the world. It is also estimated that the huge economic and economic potential of our diaspora, which will only in the coming period, and the law will help to free it, i.e. that we can expect much more investment and investment from the present. And they are not negligible at all, because estimates say that the participation of businesspeople from our country has been around 15% in the past privatisation, and many times already it has been pointed out how much money is coming into Serbia through the line. Just to make a brief digression, a little reminisce, to say how important our diaspora was in the past and now, and on the spiritual, cultural and scientific agenda, to remind that some of the greatest minds of the Serbian people lived abroad, but made a huge contribution to our science, to our culture. Just to say that Nikola Tesla, no doubt the greatest scientist from our people, has spent practically his entire life outside Serbia's borders, that Negos, undoubtedly the greatest poet of Serbian romance, has also spent his entire life outside Serbia's borders. From scientists, in this brief review, I will mention Pupin, Milankovic, whose anniversary we are marking this year, Dosite Obradovic, who was born in Čakov, in today's Romania, Milos Crnjanski, who was born in the territory of today's Hungary, Vuk Karadzic, who lived in Austria for more than 50 years, in Vienna, and gained affirmation there. By passing this law, four basic objectives will be achieved by my judgment. He will contribute to further convergence between the mother country and the diaspora. It will allow for a better quality, better involvement of diaspora representatives in the country's political, economic, scientific, cultural life. It will help preserve the identity of members of our diaspora, both national and linguistic, cultural iver. It is also very important that relations with diaspora and Serbs in the region have multiple significance in the process of European integration, in the process of building a modern Serbia. Because this law that we are about to pass is the first draft law that legally regulates the relationship between the Serbian state and Serbs living outside its borders in our legislation. I'm surprised by the politicization of this law, the partying, and I can't figure it out at all. I don't understand why it is said that the Ministry of Diaspora is not needed, and it was first formed in 2004, when Vojislav Kostunica, who supported the proposal, was headed by the government. Whether there has been a change of attitudes in his party or some MPs working and speaking contrary to the views and opinions of their president – it is a question for them. I thought it was an unintelligence, but it wasn't. It is a bad intention, the urgency that the abolition of the Ministry of Diaspora and the prevention of the adoption of this law may actually put an end to the entire diaspora, because those who say that the ministry does not feel that there should be neither diaspora nor relations with it, and that the party that says so is returning to some of its original principles. Because I remember well, when the party was formed in 1992 (and very much thanks to the assistance of the SPO, it probably couldn't have happened without it), it was said that it was a party in its name that wanted to point out that it was the Democratic Party of Serbia, that it would only deal with people living in Serbia, and that they were not at all interested in our countrymen and citizens living abroad. Looks like this is where you go back to those beginnings, which is why you seem to be founded. Now it becomes clear to me why this law, which the Ministry of Diaspora in the previous term began to work and send to other ministries and the Secretariat for legislation, waited so long and why this legislative proposal could not possibly get the green light. Someone consciously blocked it at a time when the president of the DSS was prime minister, and we are late to pass this law for several years precisely because of the obstruction of those who today openly show that they think that we, as a country of origin, should not pay attention to our countrymen abroad and that we should not maintain ties with Serbian citizens beyond its borders. It becomes clear to me why, at that time, in 2005, the Diaspora Council was formed, headed by the then prime minister, who never found it necessary to call for a session of the body even though he accepted the presidency, although he accepted the proposal from the then diaspora minister for the diaspora to be representatives of other ministries in order to address the problems and issues of our diaspora. Now it becomes clear to me why nothing could have been done at the request of the diaspora to return the funds that were in the Diaspora Foundation to the queen. At that time, before 2000, there were several million euros in the fund collected for humanitarian purposes to help and take care of refugees. The funds were frozen, frozen, could not be made available to those who needed them for more than five years, by inaction of the prime minister and those who made most of the then government. That money couldn't, besides, be used to rebuild bridges after the bombing. Only now, thanks to the efforts of Minister Sretkovic and his associates and the understanding of partners in this government, are the funds finally returned to those who were authorized to have them. These funds are now, and I am talking about significant, large funds, amounting to several million euros, finally made available primarily to people who need these funds most in Serbia and are collected in the diaspora. This issue of diaspora, as well as the question of KIM, should by no means be a party issue. This is a matter of the greatest national and national importance. Don't hate St. Peter because of Peter's hatred, so if you don't like the SPO (which, unlike you, is getting stronger and more clear now, as soon as you're so concerned that the SPO is getting more support at the expense of your party and that all the DSS committees are joining us throughout Serbia), that you're against the interest of the diaspora, that you're saying that the Ministry should be abolished, that there shouldn't even be our diaspora. There are also various arbitrary and incorrect claims, such as those that this material is not legally regulated in other countries, that there are no adequate laws governing this matter. On the contrary, I'll give you only a few examples. I will start with countries that are on the European continent. Italy, Romania, Portugal, France are European countries that have legally regulated the representation of the diaspora in parliament. Austria, Bulgaria and the Russian Federation have directed their state policy towards foreign people towards cultural co-operation and higher education. In addition to all the differences that exist in the laws relating to countrymen abroad, Slovakia and Hungary have adopted the practice of issuing a special evictive document for their countrymen who do not have the nationality of these countries and who, consequently, give them a number of privileges. Mr. Vesenovic has already mentioned an example of Slovenia, which has indeed detailed the state's obligations to Slovenians living beyond its borders. They paid special attention to the process of returning Slovenians to the country. And indeed, this law will certainly, while we are talking about this return issue, contribute to a more significant return of emigrated in the past decades, because now there is a different state policy, a policy of trust, thanks to the people who are now at the head of the ministry. Earlier, in some years and decades, only UDBA has dealt with our diaspora. In what way? More than 30 prominent political emigrants were killed. They've been liquidated, which on the ground of Western Europe, in overseas countries. I was in some of our diplomatic and consular representations in the stands, in talks with representatives of our diaspora who in the last three or four years had the first opportunity to enter their premises. Previously, in that previous period, these places had performed some other function, were used to spy, to denunciate our people, and now this trust has been restored, which is a prerequisite for both their return and their investment and their inclusion in the country's life. This law will contribute to the integration of our citizens and our countrymen into the domestic environments, so to the countries in which they are staying, but it will be one strong dam for their assimilation and their rebirth. It is certain that Serbia, after many years and decades of being a stepmom to its children, will not be pathetic, but I must say that they are truly experiencing Serbia as their mother, because the word of the queen, which we often use, is derived from the words of the mother, this law really becomes a mother and will no longer be a stepmother, as it has been in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27352	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Nikolic, based on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27353	You didn't answer our first question, but let's take our turn. We can't argue and we'll never argue about the need for the state to establish better relations with the queen. With regard to all that Mr. Čotric has now, in the finale, spoken, we absolutely share all that, and we know what she suffered and the diaspora and our emigration, and we know that these injustices need to be corrected. There is no dispute, but Mr. Čotric spoke very little about the law, and much more about the DSS. I don't know why. First, if one law, which is intended for diaspora, comes into the assembly procedure and we ask you a question that relevant organisations in our diaspora have supported this law, and you do not answer it, then it supports our suspicion and further gives us an argument that this law is not written for the diaspora. Secondly, it is absolutely unnecessary when you talk about the law, Mr. Chotric, to speak and to mention the DSS, who founded who and who helped whom. So, I highly appreciate you, I have many of your books, and I know you're a great aphorist. Since you participated, I suppose, and in writing this law, and this law is one good aphorism, he laughs at the whole diaspora. But you still managed, even today, to overcome yourself. You said your best aphorism today, which is that the SPO is stronger.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27354	Thank you. The word is by MP Branimir Djokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, representatives of the Ministry of Diaspora, listening yesterday and today to the presentation of the MPs on the draft law on diaspora, I come to the conclusion that we really need to ask ourselves whether some people here representing MPs think that those other half of the MPs really don't know anything and that they live on Mars. A few political reports were heard here, which some MPs read. It's nice to make everything at home. It's all right. These reports remind me of those two-way referendums to party bosses, representatives of ruling coalitions, the president of the state, and so on. Very few have touched essential problems in this diaspora law. The opposition tried to directly influence one constructive way, to help pass this law, which certainly needs the state of Serbia and people living (about three or four million) outside Serbia. He can't be ideal, he can't solve all the problems of our people in the diaspora, but he can't be as you suggested. He's an executioner. It's better not to have him than to have him like this. Why do I say that? Because I see you're looking at the opposition as some sort of opposing side and you're setting yourself up as if you're the only one here who wants good for this people and for those who live outside Serbia. Don't say that. You're looking for a consensus. You're asking us to get along together. It is certain that our proposals, which we present here, are not party-colored. I can certainly say that on behalf of the SRS, and I believe that's what the other opposition is thinking. However, as far as I can see in the discussions here in the Assembly, that's not so. We can talk a lot about this law in principle. I would ask certain MPs from the ruling coalition not to replace the thesis, because of the public, because of the people living in the diaspora. Because, like, my God, only the ruling coalition wants this law to be passed, only the ruling coalition wants the benefit of all citizens, and those three or four million around the world, and the opposition wants to bring down this law. No, I don't. Let citizens from Serbia and citizens living (three or four million) outside Serbia, around the world, know that the opposition also wants to solve this problem and to settle as much as possible through this law the problems of all these people who live around the world. Don't replace thesis. It's recognized by people who listen and monitor transmissions. We have contacts with a large number of people around the world, in associations, associations, wherever you want. We listen to their voice and we know what they think of this law. Don't look at criticism and our suggestions as if we now want to bring down something that you have suggested. No, I don't. We want to make our contribution to improve this, to participate in some way, in our opinions and experience, so that this law can be applied tomorrow in practice. If you think that law should be just like 'ere, it's gone, we've written it, we'll get points for it, and it doesn't matter what happens the day after tomorrow', it's a very unserious setting by the Ministry of Diaspora, which it suggests, up to the MPs themselves, who blindly support it. We also support and want the law to be passed, I stress once again, but keep hearing, so all of our concrete proposals... I've been hearing a lot of concrete suggestions here from different political parties that are even overlapping, they're exactly the same, who are asking for something to be fixed, complete. Well, the head of the DS parliamentary group has, in some ways, made it clear that there are some things to be added, to consider, to look at. Something's wrong. There's a lot of confusion, there's a lot of things that aren't clear at all. You can't put the law in the process and bring it in, and many things are left to hang in the air. What will be tomorrow, the day after tomorrow? We will see. Some of the Messengers of the people say, "We will deal with it by means of sublaws." You can handle things by sublegal means, but you can't solve key things like that. So that I don't repeat it now, because that's a lot said in that direction and you're going to hear a lot more, I hope you'll have time to look at and appreciate it, in the interest of what we're all supposed to stand for, and we stand for it. You've predicted members of the Council from the part where the diaspora Assembly is. The members of the Council that appear from the region, you've heard it so many times from all the MPs here, it's a state apparatus. Where are the people in the region who are supposed to be involved in the work? They're not here. You've listed the President of the Republic here, all certain ministries... I can read it again if I have to, make it clearer. Of course, there is no representative of the Serbian Parliament in this whole law. First, which is very unserious, the president of the Serbian Parliament is nowhere to be put here. Nowhere does the president of the Serbian Parliament's Committee for Serbs appear outside Serbia. Now watch the other thing. It is very important that some institutions such as the President of the Executive Council of the Duke are placed here. You've heard that a lot of times from other MPs. The president of the Serbian Parliament is gone, the president of the Assembly Committee on Serbs is not outside of Serbia, and therefore you have the PresidentIV AP Vojvodina. And now, an even bigger tragedy, Kosovo and Metohija are not mentioned anywhere. The KIM rep's gone. Please, I can't believe it was accidentally done. If it's done on purpose, you probably have a fat explanation, so here in front of the Parliament and the public tell why you did it. You have to explain it. Why is there no president of the Assembly, president of the Committee in your law, and why is there no representative of the KIM? It can't stay hanging in the air, too quiet, so we'll move on. Furthermore, you have here how members of that congregation are elected. You've had a lot of objections to that part of the law. How did you get to 44? One representative from a single country, but you haven't cleared up anywhere, and that law has to be clarified how they choose. You know the situation in our diaspora well. It's about three or four million people. No one can say now that he's the only one who knows the diaspora, no one else knows. Well, if you're not here, like the Ministry and through this law, somehow give guidance on how to organize it around the world (what one colleague said, in Sweden alone, you have 30, 50 associations and clubs of our people), who will organize them? Not to talk about America, Australia, Germany. How will they agree between themselves? Who's gonna say, hey, you're gonna be a representative of that. Unfortunately, the picture of division and chaos in Serbia is also painted on the diaspora, as you well know. And instead of trying to reduce their disagreements, through certain acts that we're going to bring, to direct them how easier it is to get there, we're going to leave them in the air, so let them get along, let them fight, let them do whatever they want, whatever they want. Whoever comes doesn't matter. We're going to have one congregation that's just going to be a form. Or, I know the diaspora very well, in such a situation, which will happen not only here in the environment, but around the world, you'll have to say, well, we'll take the man of that and that. And that's what the opposition was talking about earlier, that you automatically elect certain people from the diaspora who will be in that assembly. I don't need to get involved in the selection of their delegates, but we need to get through the law how they're gonna do it. My people, they live there so far away from each other they haven't heard of each other or existed. How will they organize themselves? Who's going to organize them? You've got to make sure you're all right to do it better. You have time to think and find a solution to improve that part of the law. You just gave an answer specifically to one of our MPs. I ask the same answer, to the question already raised on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia – how did you come up with the fact that in Bulgaria and Greece Serbs are not an indigenous people? How is it possible for those in the law to be kicked out of the region? Did you bother maybe, I believe you did, but you didn't go to the right place to look at the facts? I, on behalf of the SRS, tried to convince you in some way, but there's nothing to be convinced of, that's facts. We received data from the Academy of Sciences, from the Serbian Museum of History, documents from the Serbian Orthodox Church that over 30,000 Serbs live in Bulgaria alone and that they are indigenous people, inhabited in the seventh century. According to research by Professor Slavenko Terzic, a man I think knows best the historical structure of the Balkans, as many as 100,000 Serbs live in Bulgaria. Please, Bulgaria is bordering on our country, it is bound both territorially and economically and culturally and Orthodoxly, and you reject these Serbs, you throw them out of the law of the region, as if they do not exist. You put them in the diaspora. That's where you put them, with some South African Union, with Australia. Is it possible that you do not seek opinion from the largest institution in this country? Do you know that downstairs, in southern Serbia, where Bosilegrad is, there are about 20,000 Bulgarians living here in Serbia. Do you know what rights they have here? I know you know -- both schools and languages and participate in Serbia's political life. So they have all the rights here. You 30,000, or that 100,000, according to the data we're getting from the Archives and the Academy of Science, you write that they don't exist. That also applies to Greece. It's the same story with Greece. It's completely painted. Serbs appear in the seventh century, also create Greece, settle down the entire Balkans. For centuries and years, these have fought together with Serbs, created a state. Macedonia didn't exist. Please, it was southern Serbia. How far has southern Serbia gone? You're throwing it out of the region, too. Hilandar, who was vertical of Orthodoxy, of the Serbian people, you're pushing down somewhere. Do you really not know that? I can't believe you don't know. You probably have some reason. Which is why you have to explain it to this people. You must explain to the Academy of Sciences, historians, you must explain to the Serbian people. History doesn't start with you. We don't know all the details of this history either, but there are institutions dealing with these things. To pass such laws, please contact these institutions, so when you get the right information, go on. Thank you very much. I think there's gonna be a lot of talk and through the amendments we've submitted, so we'll continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27356	Thank you. Just to inform you that the current session is attended by representatives of the EU Embassy, led by a representative of the Swedish Embassy, a country currently chaired by the EU. Now I give my word to Minister Srdjan Happykovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27357	Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak of concrete suggestions at the conclusion of the debate in the principle of this law, but now I want to say a few principles, the public does. Mr Branimir Djokic, an SRS MP, is chairman of the Assembly's Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. I have to point out, at best, that for the last year, we've really had great, very correct co-operation. I have seen this collaboration with the Members of the Committee as a joint job and a joint task, and I think that in the spirit of tolerance, understanding and mutual goodwill we have come to many good and concrete solutions. At every session of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, I came with my entire team from the Ministry, and I think we've always talked very constructively. I am really glad that, in this process of talks on this first law on diaspora and Serbs in the region, which began on December 1st last year, many concrete proposals, suggestions and criticism of opposition MPs in the Committee were accepted and became an integral part of the bill. I understand Mr. Djokic's appearance today, of course, as an opposition MP. I, too, would probably behave in a similar way if I were him. But I do believe in good faith, and not only Mr. Djokic, but other SRS MPs who participated in the work of this assembly committee. I am pleased that we have included good ideas and suggestions in the bill, and of course there is room for some more things to be completed and repaired in the amendment sense. You must bear in mind that the Ministry of Diaspora will not give up on the basic origin and basic spirit of this law, which is that we are a modern democratic country, attached to international law and Western standards of conduct, and that with a lot of love, attention and understanding we cultivate the best possible relations with our people in dispersion. I am sure that even after the adoption of this law, we will have fruitful and good co-operation. I am glad that the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia is a representative of the opposition party. I think it contributes to the quality of work not only of this committee, but of the Ministry of Diaspora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27358	The replica has Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27359	I'm reporting from article 101. First of all, I want to apologize to all the MPs if yesterday I may have been vague or unspeakable, so maybe I wasn't precise enough about where the limits of my dilemmas were. That's all I want to explain. I think it is important that this law determines and determines institutions and capacities for full co-operation with emigrants and Serbs in the region and that this law should in no way regulate relations between emigrants. When I spoke on the subject yesterday, I only shared with you the dilemma of whether there was an opportunity in this law to interpret such a thing, so whether this law opens up the possibility that the state would interfere with the organisation of the emigrants and Serbs in the region and that this law should not be. So, all those who claim that the state is not doing it, show then that this law does not really contain these elements and that this is so much better, because the essence of this law is that the state determines its relationship, of course priorities along with the diaspora, but to establish its institutional capacities to achieve these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27360	Thank you. (Branimir Djokic, from the place: Can I have a word? On what basis, Mr. Dickie? (Branimir Djokic, from the place: Replica. Sign up. We also allow commendations for the minister's expense. The word is by MP Branimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27361	Given that I have been mentioned three times, I would like to say that both here and on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, I am representing the position of the SRS and we are trying to make as concrete as possible, the better we contribute to this committee and this law, so that it can be applied better. Your intentions are no better than our intentions to understand each other. That's what I said at the beginning. Don't replace the thesis in terms - the opposition doesn't want the law, we want it. Here to be clear. Now I would add something else about what DS representative Nada Kolundji said about whether Serbia should or should not interfere, through this law, about how the diaspora will be elected. In any case, Serbia should not interfere, but it should prescribe a certain mechanism to implement it there. It'll make it easier for these people all over the world to organize. Now, if you leave them alone, as someone who knows the diaspora, I say, you'll make an even bigger problem. So I'm not up for it, but you can't leave them alone. I'd like to add something else, which is very important. I asked for an answer to the question. Is it possible, Mr. Minister, to answer me this moment – how in the law of the region Bulgaria and Greece were expelled? What are the reasons why they are not classified here and that you believe that they do not have an indigenous Serbian people living in them? A moment ago, I was here in public, in front of the cameras, talking about the numbers and the documents, which I would very much like to deliver to your ministry. The documents were obtained from the Academy of Science, from the Serbian Orthodox Church Archive. These are the historical and valid documents of the highest institutions in Serbia. That is why I ask you to answer my question – why did you put them outside the regional states in law, what are the reasons?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27362	The word has Minister Srdjan Srekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27363	I will answer all suggestions and suggestions in the final presentation, at the end of the debate in principle, very detailed and pleased, and also your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27364	The word is Mr. Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27365	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, I would first return to the presentation of the DSS MPs. They, as expected, were politically inconsistencies this time. Even the president of his party today has been accused, though indirectly, because he, as prime minister, set up his cabinet by the Diaspora Ministry, and now his party's MPs accuse him of being a party ministry. I admit, after all this, after all these years, that there is a responsibility of the SPO which the DSS founded in the early 1990s (I repeat what MP Čotric said - in hopes of fighting for European principles, for European values), but the DSS policy has recently turned so much to reminding the policy of the 1990s, of the policy of isolation, which has driven hundreds of young people out of Serbia. For more than half a century, our people have been considered as political and state enemies of the First Order. They were killed by then by secret police all over the world. Dragisa Kasikovic, nicknamed "The Knight of Serbian Immigration", was killed in Chicago, and the New York press described it this way: "In the analysis of the Chicago police, this scene has not yet been recorded. There were two butchered bodies lying on the floor of the house of SNO. The body of a 45-year-old man was stabbed with a sharp object exactly 64 times, and the skull was fractured by severe hammer blows. Three steps away from that body was the nine-year-old girl, his stepdaughter. My grandfather Milic Damjanovic refused to return to Serbia after the Mathauzen camp. He fled to Australia because news of the murder of his father and the killings, by communist death squads, about 100,000 of his parliaments, members of the Ravnogor movement, or more specifically, members of the Yugoslav army in the country. Most of them who managed to avoid death shaved around the world and formed a Serbian diaspora after 1945. So, already former members of the Ravnogorje Movement found their refuge in the West, as General Draža Mihailovic's movement was pro-Western. Another great injustice occurred in the 1990s, when a large part of Serbia's youth left the country seeking its future far from the burden of evil and the wars that have struck us. So the best part of Serbia took the position of the Serbian diaspora, because after World War II, they were persecuted by the best, most educated, and in the 1990s in Serbia, youth and brains had no perspective. We must use these people as promoters of Serbia, and we must do everything to become a member of the EU, and thus also part of a major alliance that will include the European diaspora of Serbia. We must turn Serbia into a modern, developed, democratic state that respects the principles of the modern world. That's why we need a whole new policy, a completely new approach and a relationship, most frankly, towards our people living outside Serbia's borders. We also need a long-term strategy. We need a strategy and policy that will not depend on who is in power, which will not depend on the will of political parties and which will not change after each vote. This law is the basis of a new policy towards diaspora. We must respect European principles of conduct, but also be determined to protect our national interests, just as France, Germany, Great Britain, Spain, so the strongest forces in the world do today. New, the best possible relationship with the diaspora is more than necessary. However, diaspora also need close relations with the queen. Not only because of emotional, but also because of a number of practical reasons, such as resolving status issues, easier obtaining documents, achieving their rights in the country of origin of Serbia, e.g. in the future, following the adoption of the restitution law, for which the adoption of the SPO is persistent. I believe that in the future the diaspora will make a significant contribution to Serbia's economic and democratic development. I believe we have a much better, closer and more honest relationship ahead of us. It must never be repeated again that they are not on the same path, such as Rastko Petkovic and Milos Crnjanski, on the one hand, and Serbia, on the other. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27366	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mico Rogovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, Mr. Novakovic, another example of the task and obligations to you and the rest of the leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that it is inevitable to introduce a assembly channel, for the reasons of finding out all the events, not only the events of this Assembly Hall, but also the situations of preparation and discussion of the laws on boards and their further analysis in the Assembly Hall. I ask you to work on this issue in the next period, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and our findings on all committees and stories here in the Assembly. I have to, Mr. Minister, tell you, and today I wouldn't talk about the amendments since it's still a principle debate, that the SNS has really tried to fix a part of the law. This does not mean that all attempts here today should be sealed, but they will eventually, given the events and relations of the queen and the diaspora, experience some new dimensions. The biggest problem was the title of Delegates and Article 18. That's what I want to point out for the reason I counted who knows how many times to get to the proposed number 44. There's also a SNS amendment. Indeed, given the seriousness and, as you say, the historical importance of adopting, that is, entering into the procedure of the bill, there is a little inconclusiveness on the other hand, about the situation that delegates are literally not well counted. There are 45 on the list, and in the bill and in what we received in the materials was number 44. You, in the explanation of this law, corrected it, did not stick to the number 44, but to 45. Unfortunately, I still have to talk in my presentation about relations in the last period between diaspora and queen. This is what causes all the problems and what we want to fix in the future. Not just the SNS, but all of us. There's no party policy here. There should be no policy here, no SNS, no SPO, but politics of people living in diaspora and queens. When that cohesion was made, politics succeeded. Political principles fall to that. We are, by the very act of passing this law, still only on our way to taking one step towards all of it. In view of the findings that I will speak in the next part of my presentation, the story of dissension is also here, as is noted from the assembly debate, but unfortunately also about the discrepancy in the diaspora, which is partly caused by all these waves and the reasons for the wave of migration of the population from Serbia and the relationship of the country of origin of the Republic of Serbia towards its people in dispersion. We have to admit, no matter what party we belong to, that in the last 50 years the relationship to immigration has literally been like this – it's a Chetnic emigration. And that encourages a part of the problem, which continues in the later period, and that problem is later only trying to correct itself a little bit, i.e., given the potential and thinking of diaspora as a potential that is truly inevitable and that is very important for the lives of us here and for the politics of the Republic of Serbia. We can't just give the diaspora the right to vote. This right has literally been introduced and made possible, but as far as this right is concerned, we see when we start from the situation that in the last presidential elections in January 2008, only 1% of the population living in the diaspora, and has the right to vote, went to the elections and voted. Why? This is about replacing thesis all the time, and it's about ruling parties in the queen, i.e. in the Republic of Serbia. There was no campaign. You can't just call the elections, do all the campaigns in the Republic of Serbia, invest huge funds both by the state and by the parties to stay in power and make the elections succeed, let's say your candidate wins, and that the diaspora is neglected and that no marketing, or media campaign for these elections will be made there. That's why we're coming up with a 1% number of eligible voters in the diaspora. Why? Because, once again, there is a replacement thesis, because part of the ruling coalition's political parties behaves like this, in one way or another, according to the diaspora, from the aspect -- who knows whose voters they are. That's our people, that's our voters, no matter who they vote for. That a real replacement of the thesis is also showing the result of these presidential elections, where, for example, the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic of these, unfortunately, 1% of the voters received the highest number of votes. We'd prefer it if it were different, but it really was. Given the wide story of the diaspora, in the next part of the story, I need to look at the problem of the major problem of life and the existence of Serbs in the areas of the countries in the environment and the region. It is very good that the law distinguishes between diaspora and Serbs in the region. As I said yesterday, their lives, problems and existence are really two different worlds. It is much more difficult to be in an environment than to live in economically developed countries abroad, where at least they have some economic rights if they are politically and neglected. Serbs in BiH, fortunately, have the status of a constituent people and their entity. National minority Serbs have status in Croatia, Macedonia, Hungary and Romania, while the status still remains (may be changed these days, after actions related to relations with the Republic of Slovenia) do not exist in Slovenia, Bulgaria and Albania. I must remain in the conduct of these states and their institutions towards our people. For example, in Slovenia towards the Serb population, which has been living there for 18 years, there is, unfortunately, such a discriminatory relationship, that over tens of thousands of people of Serbian nationality are literally deleted from the list, for a single space of reason, because they have not received Slovenian citizenship. So it comes to the conclusion and the fact that Serbs in Slovenia have become citizens of the lower human rank. Data from a closer environment, from BiH, are even more alarming. From the geography of BiH, I am talking about the Federation, it wiped out 527 Serb settlements, in which only Serbs lived before the war. There's no going back to these settlements. As an example, I also cite Sarajevo, where 160,000 Serbs lived before the war, and now there are only 7,000 Serbs, and none of them have the right to compete, not for leadership, directorial posts, but for employment relations in public enterprises and institutions. All this says what these countries' relationship to national minorities is. We come to a situation in Croatia, where the rights of Serbs are only formally protected, by the fact that there is a Law on National Minorities, but it has never been applied, nor is it applied, nor is this the state summit of the Republic of Croatia intended to do so. I must remind myself that, in line with the proportional participation in the number of inhabitants, the number of Serbs who should have employment in Croatia should be over 20,000, but that is also a dead letter on paper. It is all done because of EU pressure, and because of this pressure and the SDSS has been saving only the Croatian government for several years. Many relevant people in this area know that this is the case, as well as people who follow the events in Croatia, and I hope you are aware of the situation. The Serbian party and its leadership have indeed done nothing during this period for the problems of Serbs in Croatia. For example, in 300 settlements where Serbs now live, there are neither electricity nor phones nor traffic to these settlements, there is simply no life. After the war, about 50,000 Serbs returned to Croatia, although Croatian authorities are processing a figure of over 100,000, all because of relations with the EU and the National Minorities Act and, allegedly, the rights that our people realize as a national minority in Croatia. Of them, 50,000 died. Most of them didn't actually come back. They went back to settle their papers, go around their hearths, and come back here again, or, unfortunately, they go to the other side. The fact that he is vice president in the Croatian government is a Serb, it is good for him personally and for a part of the Serbs in those places. Normally, for the Croatian Democratic Community, which is in power, Croatia's cold behaviour towards Serbs and the situation that Serbs allegedly enjoy rights in the Republic of Croatia would appear formally in front of the EU. Here's a banal example. For the purposes of the education of Serbs in Croatia, seven million kunas were allocated last year, while, for example, more than 350 million kunas were allocated only to the University of Mostar, and data indicate that the number of Serbs in Croatia and the number of Croats in BiH is almost identical. These are issues that all of us should be concerned about, and the Committee in the Assembly and your ministry and the complete government of the Republic of Serbia, and before these issues we must not have time and understanding. Finally, when all these problems of Serbs are compared in the environment and relatively comfortable life, as I pointed out yesterday, Serbs in the diaspora, in the economically developed countries of the world, there is a reason to ask the question, which I was saying yesterday, whether the list of Serbs, this giant project, is a very expensive, really need or arises some other need for the development of relations and situations, that we should improve the relationship of the queen and the diaspora at all costs, and there are no pardons, because indeed for many years and decades these issues are taboo topics for both the queen and the diaspora. And we must not, speaking of this law, possibly by the terms of the diaspora and Serbs in the region come up with some new division, let's say the Croats, the Montenegrins and the others. Why am I saying this? For the reason that there is talk here at the beginning of today's debate about Serbians. In terms of the geographical binding of Serbs to Serbia's space, therefore, as a geographical term, it is correct, but this concept was talked about back in the days of Austro-Hungarian times. And do you know why? It's only to termnologically separate Serbs from the left and right of Drina. If someone's trying to give it back to us again after so many years and decades, it really doesn't make sense. If it is ignored that this is only an anti-Serbian connotation, the word "Serbian" almost has no proper meaning or use. Please, that's why we can't talk here or anywhere, make some other division besides the many divisions in recent decades with political and various connotations. We can't split up. We are all Serbs, wherever we are, in both Serbia and America and BiH. I really resent it when someone brings it out here or anywhere. The problem is that the problems of the diaspora and the queen are still not seriously dealt with and almost nobody is talking about it. I point out once again, as shown by yesterday's part of my presentation and exposure to other colleagues, the situation is that virtually all governments since 2000 have fallen due to an uncovered import deficit closing in on the foreign currency of Serbs from the diaspora and the region, both officially and unofficially. Once again, I must point out, when it comes to the law itself, that it really looks like a start in politics towards diaspora and Serbs in the region. And it really matters what that start is made. Everything else is things we need to talk about and things we can't have any doubts about whether we're them or them. The fact is, you have to agree, it's only a step, because you've really been more concerned with this content than with the law itself. The fact is that we have inherited historical problems and a situation that should be interrupted in Serbia, which we need to solve, solve economic problems in Serbia and not allow our youth and our personnel abroad to leave. This has yet to follow, because so far it has not been stopped, and then the changes in the law will lead to a situation where this law is even more appropriate. Right now, it's not, given all these situations that are unscheduled and unpredictable, given what I was talking about yesterday, that I can come from 1.1.2010, which is that citizens get Schengen visas. The most important of all, despite all the failures, which are evident, but which should not be deliberately understood, on my part or by other MPs, no matter who they come from, is that something concrete has begun, and we will work on it and we should work on it. Whether the law will meet the expectations of the diaspora, probably none of us know, except that they really are the potential that, apart from showing up at a hole in the budget, we should not ignore any moment. The question is whether the diaspora will finance the proposed advice, the proposed assembly, since the reason behind this bill states that new debts relating to the application of this law and the constitution of all the bodies necessary for this law are neither large nor exist, so the question is whether we should expect from the diaspora to finance all the bodies and bodies listed in this law. Once again, I have to ask you, and I hope that at the end of the debate, you will answer, given the fact that there are a very large number of Serbian associations in the diaspora, various organizations, cultural, sports, such and such, and this is the case of an unofficial 1,300 figure. You're running away from finding that you've been talking to part of the organization. It's certainly a true fact, you've led these people, and I don't think you'd be able to get the strength to put all these organizations in a position to explain that you haven't contacted them. But it would have been an even better finding, Mr. Minister, if you had said that you had failed to contact a large number of organizations. This is perfectly normal, because of the very finding and the fact that your ministry, our ministry and all the relevant authorities of the Republic of Serbia do not really deal with the good fact. It's not just me, it's you, it's all the problems we've been talking about all these days. In the bill of law, you are talking about one of the basic obligations of the Council to record and collect all these organisations. It's in the law, and it's really a commitment and it has to be a commitment. But I would really be pleased if you said that you were able to contact the part of the organization, and for reasons like this or such, you couldn't get in touch with many organizations, which was practically impossible, regardless of the time period and procedure of this law. We also need to add that unfortunately, the leaders of the Serbs in the diaspora and in the region are sometimes from here, from the Republic of Serbia, so they are more elected here than in their congregations, and in the vanity of the works of those leaders and everything else, that it is even more disturbing to the situation. There is also a problem that the diaspora must reach agreement and unity and that the queen must reach a compromise under the law to reach an agreement on the future, and then because of the diaspora and because of generations that were born in the diaspora. Believe me, and you are aware that they do not experience the queen of Serbia as their ancestors. They're probably better off with the problems of their new homeland, and that's where we're supposed to work. When you think about it and talk about it, since you haven't answered the question of what you were thinking (also mentioned by Mr Nikolic and colleague Jankovic) under the new Serbian patriotism... That's what we all found in your presentations. About that, I'm going to remind you of just one sentence. This is how you said - Serbia needs a new patriotism of the Western type, which would make the country an economically strong and politically influential state that has the strongest countries of the world for allies and which therefore has democratic capacity to defend our state and national interests in the best way possible. Does this mean that the strongest countries in the world aren't our friends? It's not like the strongest countries in the world aren't friends with us and these governments. It's not like there's supposed to be a new patriotism of the Western type. Then we fall here and before part of your ideology. Are you giving up the Straight Up? If you give up the Straight Up, I ask the Members of the SPO whether they give up the Straight Up. Serbian history cannot be forgotten. Wars and uprisings against the Ottoman Empire, against Austro-Hungarian countries cannot be forgotten. You can't forget Cer, Mishar, Kolubara, Drina. We can't forget that. That's not even people in the distractions will forget. That's not the new generation that was born there. They won't forget. Did you think of those new generations that were born there, and who really wanted us to or didn't want to admit it... (President: The time foreseen for your parliamentary group is up. )......................................................................................................... Here, I'm done, Mr. Novakovic. (President: I'm sorry, 20 seconds.) You've been more correct, 20 seconds. Mrs. Chairman took her word in five seconds yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27368	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27369	I'm reporting for replication. The basis is in the presentation of Mr. Jugovic, and Mr. Rogovic mentioned me. Article 101. The Rules of Procedure clearly give me the right to take my word for it. Or would you, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, not give the word to those who, according to the Rules of Procedure, have the right to do so? It just has to react. Our criticism of this poor bill applies exclusively to the law. We do not enter the ideological definitions of members of the SPO, but in the absence of arguments we have experienced here to attack the ideological definition of the DSS and even to interpret it. That's inadmissible. The only thing I can answer to my fellow Yugoslav is that, when our government, or the real government of Vojislav Kostunica, formed this ministry, it was actually our programme commitment, to establish more significant contact with the diaspora. So, you got a chance from Prime Minister Kostunica. With this bill of law, you've gambled that chance, and we're making arguments here that made you gamble and why this law is so disastrously bad. We're not happy about that fact. We're not happy that the congregation procedure hasn't entered such a bad law for a long time, but we're making arguments here. The Minister wants to speak at the end when the debate is over. If he believes in this law, let him enter into the argument, let him say which organisations supported this law, let him say what was happening in the public debate, let him say why there is no representative of Kosovo and Metohija in the Council for Serbs in the region, let it state what the Assembly will look like. Come on, gentlemen, we're making arguments here without any exaggerations, no reminders of our past emigration, no memory of all the problems that have killed us in the past, and you're just expressing emotions and memories, and you're running away from arguments. We want to really encourage a real debate here and see who's actually right and we're eager, if we can, to get to a common denominator to fix this law. You've been ruled in this law. Mrs. Hope Kolundji was clearly determined under this law. She is the head of your parliamentary group, or ruling coalition, and is the largest parliamentary group. She has to take care of how she will say it, but her objections are identical, or very similar to those of us, in a stricter form because we are not in the ruling coalition, through these amendments. So I advise Mr. Minister not to be silent, and especially not to go out when the DSS representatives speak, because we actually opened the problem the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27370	Thank you. It's been three minutes. The People's MP Mr. Mirko Chikiriz has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27371	Madam Chairman, I have responded to the replica since the SPO parliamentary group was mentioned, so I would ask that you do not count on me at the time of the discussion. Mr Rogovic, whom we highly respect, asked the SPO MPs whether because of the statements made by our minister, we deny Ravne up. What is physically visible, is that the Serbian Renewal Movement built a memorial in Ravno Gora, a church of suffocation, funded the construction of a local road, electricity networks, erected a monument to General Mihailovic not only in Ravna Gora, but in several towns in Serbia and we have initiated that many streets and squares in Serbia get the name of General Draža Mihailovic and one of these squares is the square in Lapovo. That's what's visible physically, and it seems to me that by pawning the SPO, the Equality and Anti-Fascist Movement is evened out. What is the basis of the SPP policy, and what is the continuation of General Dragoljub Mihailovic's policy, is that even at the time that Western allies acted incorrectly towards our movement or our country, it did not affect the change in the course of our policy, that is, General Mikhailovic's policy. Because when a decision was made in Yalta in 1943 on the division of interest areas, in which Bor Komaovski, the leader of the resistance movement in Poland, had to be sacrificed, as well as the leader of the resistance movement in Bulgaria, the leader of the resistance movement in Serbia, it did not change the strategic policy of the movement, and later General Mihailovic, with the equals, participated in a major action to save allied pilots, who were shot down by fascists in our sky. Therefore, the SPO wants its policy to restore the alliance Serbia had before the arrival of communism and has achieved extraordinary results in terms of state policy, as Serbia has been constantly expanding its borders, has made economic progress and has not had migration from its country, primarily economically and politically, as it had since World War II. That would be my replica, and now I'd say something, if you'll excuse me and I'd like to ask you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27372	It's time for the replica, so Mrs. Kolundjia will get her word first, and then I'll let you take part in the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Kolundjia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27373	I was thinking, and I was hoping that there wouldn't be any abuse of what the MPs here say, and that it wouldn't be used in some kind of reckoning. As before, we have listened carefully to opposition remarks. Whenever we found reasoned reasons for some of the amendments to contribute to the improvement of the law, we ourselves advocated that these amendments be adopted. It doesn't seem to be the fact that your reasons why you reject this law are identical to the dilemmas that I've brought about it. The main problem, what you're saying, is that this is party law. I say this is the law of the state where it defines its position on the issue of emigrants and Serbs in the region. That's where we're fundamentally different. Your objection and argument that this law ceases the need for the Ministry to exist is contrary to what I stand for, which is strengthening the capacity of the state institutions to achieve these objectives. My dilemma was whether this law provided for all competent organisations and institutions, which are necessary to ensure that this law could be fully implemented. There we are fundamentally different, and you cannot identify what was my dilemma and what are your reasons for disputing this law. Of course, the key thing is that what I've been saying is actually the state's attitude towards emigrants and that this law should define this relationship between the state and its instruments, in order to achieve the goals of emigrants, and I am deeply opposed to anyone who thinks the state should regulate issues related to emigrants. That's also one fundamental difference. I really ask you, if we are going to discuss the amendments very carefully, we will consider your amendments very carefully and any amendments that may contribute to the possible removal of some ambiguity in the law or some indiscretion. But conceptually, we are fundamentally different in this approach. I conceptually support the Ministry's approach to determine its relationship to diaspora and Serbs in the region and to build its own capacity to realise this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27374	Mr. Nikolic, on what grounds did you answer? Replica? You didn't understand, your MP group interpreted it one way, and Mrs. Kolundji explained it. There was nothing offensive or vague about her exposure. You're misread? Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27375	I will refer to the stenographic notes from yesterday, that is, last night, when you spoke of this law. You said, in my deep confidence, that the law should be passed primarily in order for the state to establish its relationship with diaspora and Serbs outside Serbia, in order to determine the bodies that will deal with improving these relations, in order to determine the instruments for improving these relations and, in that sense, in my opinion, should not address the issues of organising the diaspora itself. Great. All of this and we're saying, we're just saying that the law is the negation of all of this, the declared desires and the goals that you've set and which are common to us. When you challenged the Assembly, because we say that the constitution of the Assembly is actually political manipulation, you say this: Now we come to this issue – if this is the law that defines the relationship between the state of Serbia and its institutions towards the diaspora and Serbs living outside Serbia, is this the place in this law to the diaspora Assembly established in this way? You're asking and opening the question of the Assembly, and we're doing it, too. We're about to sit down and talk about this. The minister doesn't want to talk about it. He's here to keep his mouth shut. Let's open up this problem, because you've kind of expressed a dilemma. Could a congregation like this be a bond between the state and the diaspora in the right way, the way you want it to be, and that way we want that contact to be achieved? The concept law has already been challenged. Let's see if the method of constitution, mandate and everything else is right, if this law is meant to do so in the right way. We claim it isn't, and we have submitted amendments in that direction, and there are amendments from other parliamentary groups. And that's all I'm talking about. But today, government representatives, or positions, talk about diaspora problems, talk about memories, talk about what, and don't talk about these arguments. We're just about to launch an argument-based conversation. We've never heard of a counterargument from a minister before. We have expressed this in a stricter form, you have expressed it in the form that it is written in stenographic notes, I do not dispute or exaggerate, nor abuse, but that is sufficient reason to finally open a serious debate on this law in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27376	Mr. Nikolic, thank you. The Minister's right is to listen to all MPs, all possible dilemmas, and finally turn around. We can't tell when he'll do it. The majority of ministers have this approach, to monitor MPs' statements and address eventually. Your persistent insistence to include the minister whenever you want, is simply not a positive answer. The minister has the right to decide when to call. Mr. Alexander Jugovic. It's also a replica. What's the basis for your replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27377	I've been mentioned twice by Mr. Nikolic about my presentations, so it's the basis of my replica. First of all, I would say to Mr Nikolic, who said that Kostunica had given someone any chance that no one in person, not in politics, not in any sphere, could stand a chance. Politics is such that the people give a chance. The people gave SPO a chance, which is in the government from 2004 to 2007, from 2003 to 2004 it was established. With the same Kostunica, the people took a chance, and the SPO was once again given the chance to deal with the diaspora problems, obviously because he did it in a good way. Next, I see a lot of people here are taking on a lexema, and they don't understand the essence. It doesn't matter what we call patriotism, it's important to carve it right. Many here who do not understand what that word means are seeking their support in politics in the 1990s. I see a lot of people recognize each other because of that discontinuity that the SPO wants to make. It's not the new patriotism that's new. The new patriotism is a completely different view than the one that led Serbia into misery and wars. We want strong Serbia in every way, economically, with friends in the West. I think that's the essence and what every citizen of Serbia should be seeking. The flat mountain should also not worry about SNS MPs. Mr. Rogovic is my great friend, it's not controversial, but I understand, he's in a young political party, they're still wandering. We just know what our identities are, and they're still looking for them. So, I mean, this exposure of mine has put an end to some of the doubts that the opposition has shown.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27378	The word is Mrs. Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27379	I hope I don't have to answer that again. The thing is, if you have any dilemmas or if you think that some provision of a member's attitude may not be clearly precise enough, then we are fundamentally different from what I say - yes, this law is good and we will support it, this law is necessary, and if there are objections that can fix it, we are ready and the minister is ready to talk about it. And you say the opposite. You say - we have small objections to this law, but the law is no good and we will not support it. That's why I'm asking you not to take me as a comparison. We are fundamentally different from this law. So, all that is defined as state priorities, all that has been identified as a common interest between the state of Serbia and the diaspora and Serbs living in the region, all the instruments that the state has included as its capacity to do so, are necessary for us. I just asked the question - is there a need to include some more instruments to strengthen this, starting first of all, that the Ministry of Diaspora, and also the Government of Serbia and we here, determine that this is a crucial issue and that we should devote ourselves to the maximum capacity that the state has at our disposal. When it comes to my dilemma about whether or not the state interferes with the diaspora organisation, that's all I have to say is a question for the Assembly. The fact that everyone is talking about it and most opposition parties are asking for the state to interfere (because it does not interfere, under this law) allows me to conclude a calm conscience that in this law there is no such risk that the state will in any way interfere with the organisation, organisation, discipline and I do not know what. Our argument is that this is no party law, this is where government authorities are given the powers that are relevant to achieving these objectives. That's what should be an argument for you to support the law, fighting for some amendments to fix what you may not think is precise enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27380	Thank you. There are no more grounds for replication. You've explained enough to the Assembly. If there are any discrepancies, let him take a break between you. You can't have a replica on me, I wasn't talking about a matter that's on the agenda. If you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27381	I was misread. You resented me, in a certain way, calling on the minister to engage in this debate and you said that he had the right to engage at the end of the debate and to make his final comment. It is precisely the lack of this parliament, because we later do not have the possibility of replicating the minister's exposure. He, of course, has the right, but no one contests his right to be involved here in the debate at any moment of discussion under any law, or law that he proposes. That's what many ministers do, and that's my advice to Minister Sredkovic, to include himself, in order to remove some dilemmas. We will return to these dilemmas that Mrs. Nada Kolundji had, and many dilemmas may just be solved by the minister. In my opinion, it is not good for the minister, when such key problems are opened, to address at the end of the debate. It is desirable that the minister be involved, and once again I call on him to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27382	The pursuit of an interactive relationship obviously exists and is possible in the debate in particular. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27383	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that, at least quietly, we should reach an agreement that one of these important laws, which is very important because it is the first time adopted by this country, because it regulates one significant matter and refers to a large number of our citizens, should still be focused in the other direction. If there is a first time situation in our country that is systemic and normative, we are legally engaged in diaspora, it shows that the state has not been, until today or these days, serious about the relationship with its citizens living outside the borders of our country. Often, when we met our emigrants, after talking to them, we concluded that their relationship with the queen was often much more mature, more responsible, and more serious than ours. The very fact that there are several hundred or several thousand associations, organizations, associations of our citizens living outside the borders of our country, and that the state has done nothing seriously so far in terms of their organisation, shows the queen's reckless attitude towards its citizens outside the borders. The draft law, you could see it in an explanation, got 2,400 associations, associations, organizations and influential individuals to normize this law. This law is, of course, in line with the Office of the President of the Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He's not party law, and I'm asking all my colleagues, first of all from the DSS, not to make any further confusion in the diaspora enough anyway, with a flat-rate thesis that this is party law. If it were party law, the SPO MPs would not have submitted six amendments to it. We would probably move within our party, agree that the law should go, agree with coalition partners that they do not submit amendments because it is our party law and then our coalition partners would not submit amendments or express certain doubts about the quality of the law itself. In the opening statement, as many have forgotten, the minister said that, given that a large number of amendments to this law have been submitted, all amendments that improve this law, in agreement with the government, would be very much accepted. Secondly, if it's about the most important bodies, then the Assembly elected by our people outside the borders of our country and the Council that make up the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, the minister of diaspora, education, culture, religion, finance, the President of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, the representative of the SPC -- you're not going to say that all these are SPO personnel and that they make such an important body? Of course, freedom of speech allows everyone to say what they want, but I think, first of all, because of this sensitive relationship to the diaspora, which has been divided for decades, confused, disoriented, left by the queen, that we do not need to further confuse the diaspora in this high house anyway. If this were party law, the SPO would talk dominantly about what we've been talking about since 1990, political emigration since 1945. However, the law also treats political emigration and economic emigration and so on. Human emigration and immigration created in wars, unnecessary since 1990. Of course, and this is a party's view, the SPO has an emotion and is the only political party in Serbia, the political party on the ZES list, the right-wing European Serbia, which has a respect for people who have been politically persecuted, according to which the state has achieved and allocated significant financial resources for their secret monitoring, listening, to find the perpetrators of brutal killers. Mr. Jugovic was talking about Dragisa Kashikovic. The SPO also established the Dragisa Kashikovic Award. And what the queen's relationship to, say, the Dragisa Kasicovic award also shows that one award winner, otherwise the LDP mayoral candidate for Belgrade, did not know that he pronounced the name of a man whose name bears the award. The SPO believes that with this system law, we should start connecting the diaspora and the queen. In that part, we expect constructive support from all. You're not going to tell me that the representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church is SPO? I have great respect for the DSS. I think they're very high-quality personnel, but I don't agree with their policy and I can't understand their yesterday's and today's aggravation and anger. And we lost the election, so what? We were twice below the census, so we survived as a party. You'll survive, too. You've changed course. You now believe that Slobodan Milosevic had good political goals but wrong methods and, if you were given a chance, that you would achieve the same political goals, only by different methods. That's why you're on the block now with the SRS, who thinks the same way you do. If so, you should be. It is your political right to be a monarchist party by 2000, that when we climb the Straight Mountain, you go to the village of Ba and then become a Republican party since 2000. It is your right to advertise that your presidential candidate, who received the mandate for change, is a descendant of the Duke of Misic, never a member of the Union of Communists, monarchs, which I know what is not, and then the greatest protector of those who came to Serbian political emigration after 1945. However, I would return to what preceded this law. The bill, in addition to obtaining more than 2,400 associations, organisations and associations, is in line with international principles and standards relating to the position of the diaspora. Many diaspora offices have been established in local self-government. The SPO participates in 30 per cent of government in local self-government, but not in all 100%. Especially in local self-governments where there are the most people outside our country's borders, especially in eastern Serbia. A second conference of Serbian associations of countries in the environment, the International Conference on the Serbian Diaspora and the development of the country of origin, was held. It's made, and on the Ministry site you can see the information manual for the diaspora. A number of public debates have been opened on the subject -- Serbian diaspora, position, participation and importance for the upcoming European Parliament elections. Many thank-yous, books, textbooks have been presented, the construction of the Milevi Marić-Einstein Memorial in Zurich has been funded, co-operation with sports, cultural organisations has been achieved. So far, our people from abroad, when they came into the queenland, didn't have their own ministry. They didn't have a local self-government office where they can solve basic issues of importance -- travel documents, legal issues, customs issues, etc. They were "recreated" at every turn, robbed with the loan for Serbia's rebirth. He asked them for money for wars. Many came and left their lives in these last wars and were left without a broken dollar, which was made for tens of years. Therefore, we really must, as is done by Ireland, Italy, Germany, Greece, as countries do in the environment, as Croatia does (what relations between Croatia and Serbia in the past were), lead a serious relationship with the diaspora and we must systematically regulate these relations. Is the diaspora itself choosing its representatives in the diaspora Assembly a party issue and is it the influence of the state on the choice of their delegates? Believe that many meetings with the most influential organizations have been made and, after these talks, it has been concluded that they want to self-organize and that it is best, that the queen should not interfere in their choice. And here is the question of what are the responsibilities of the Assembly except for these responsibilities listed in the law. This congregation, of course, cannot have any legislative, executive, court, nor normative authority, etc. But it is necessary to define the basic problems of the diaspora, to address them in co-operation with the Ministry of Diaspora, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as with all other ministries and councils, through state authorities, primarily diplomacy, in agreement with the countries of origin. Is that a party question? We don't see it. I'm saying that if the law deals exclusively with political broadcasting, if members of the Council were SPO staff, if the Assembly were elected by the SPO's main board, then it would really be a party issue. Now, please, let's all get serious, please, when we discuss in particular, explain their amendments. Here, I'll tell you right now, I'm not interested in my party's position at all, I'm voting to establish the Free Jovanovic Award. I think the applicant for the amendment has made an extraordinary amendment. I think it's our most important policy, state and law theorist. There are, of course, significant citizens. For example, Jovan Hadzic, who is also from the diaspora, as Vojvodina was then outside Serbia's borders, made the most significant contribution to the country's normative establishment. To a large extent, he made laws of respect for then European laws, Napoleon's "Code Civil", the German civil code, the Austrian civil code. And all those who were just counted by Mr. Aleksandar Čotric - Dositej Obradović, Vuk Karadzic, Jovan Hadzic, Mihajlo Obrenovic, because they were right-wing, patriots, because they were Europeans, had problems with primitives in their country who understood nothing and who called them "stranger spies". Today you can hear many that Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic has ruined Serbian, ruined our alphabet, was an Austrian spy, etc. Please have a special attitude of respect for people who have given great importance to the restoration of Serbian statehood. Let's not forget, in the 19th century, when there were no schools in Serbia, they came to Serbia from Austria and Hungary, above all from the territory of today's Vojvodina, many educated and trained people to be scribes, to be teachers, to be educators, but because of the way they behave, the way they dress, because of different habits, the illiterate people called them 'Germans' and 'Swabovia' with contempt. But the 'Germans' laid the foundations of our new Serbian statehood, and when we talk about diaspora, I feel on behalf of the SPO the need to remember 'Germans' from this distance, to remember those people who left easy lives in Pest, Vienna, Novi Sad, Subotics and came to rural and illiterate Serbia, carried by the most beautiful patriotic initiatives. What does this law want? If we want this wave, this river of educated people, who should be the bearers of Serbian citizens, to our right, European Serbia, not to bear their brains and not to use it in the east, neither in the west, nor in the north, nor in the south of our continent, but here in Serbia. I understand that, probably, the people of the party that I mentioned further angered our stance on NATO, but that's why I mentioned General Mihailovic a moment ago and said that, and at the moment when the allies were totally unfair to him, it didn't affect his policy course. Therefore, the SPO believes that if we really want to economically recover the country, if we want to be a large part of the European community's family, we must join NATO. Of course, in the debate on the specifics of this law, the SPO will give its vote for all amendments that, in our opinion and in deep confidence, improve this law qualitatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27384	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27385	Article 101. Rules of Procedure. We're working on the morning debate system. So, I am an authorised representative and whenever a party is mentioned, a parliamentary group in a negative context or in the wrong context, then the president, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the right to replication. I'd like to ask you to give me a word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because some big things and accusations have been said here compared to the DSS. Could I, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? (President: You can use time to advertise the Rules of Procedure. You have another minute and a half. I've got a minute and a half, quite enough. Mr. Chikiriz, don't mix grandmothers and frigs. So me and the DSS here all morning are really trying, we're opening up a certain argument and we're looking for counterarguments. The minister's been quiet all morning. Okay, that's his right. I understand that you, as representatives of the SPO, must defend the law here, but let's make some arguments. Constant emotion, constant memory. With all the stuff you've brought up earlier in the finals, I agree. But you said at the beginning, and that is why I am responding, and that is why I have the right, that the DSS is leading the policy of Slobodan Milosevic in the 1990s. Excuse me, first chronologically to say one thing, very important. We were not in any of Slobodan Milosevic's governments until 2000, and the SPO was. Secondly, logically, if you say that we run the policy of Slobodan Milosevic in the 1990s, who are you sitting with in the government now? Are the representatives of the SPS (you, as Parliament Speaker and SPS Vice-President), in fact disowning the policy led by Slobodan Milosevic during the 1990s? Because based on what Mr. Chikiriz said, then you're giving up politics, because as far as I can tell, the SPS had no objection to this law and gave him support. We have a grudge, and then you say we run that policy. So, simply, logically something doesn't stand. If it is true that we are running a policy led by Slobodan Milosevic in the 1990s, then the party that inherited that policy has given up. And to remind you that you were in two governments with us coalition partners and you didn't talk like that then. You seem to have just realized, in 2009, that we have changed, too. I really call on you, if you're discussing, we're giving you some sort of argument here, you've been challenged by the law and by the head of the parliamentary group, Mrs. Hope Kolundgia, by the counterarguments. Convince Mrs. Hope Kolundji that she has her doubts about this law and that they are gone, and then we can talk about some other things.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27386	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. On the right to a replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure I decide - everything is clear and there was no insult. They're not here now, Mr. Chiquiriz, so you won't get the word. Mr. Nikola Lazic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27387	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will look back at the beginning of what Mr. Minister said when he moved in with Mr. Djokic, president of the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, which is that he would probably also be an opponent and critic of this law that he is in opposition. We don't think that way at the DSS. We believe that whenever a quality legislative proposal is on the agenda, it should be supported. There are several examples of this, but I will refer to the environmental set of laws, which our MP group supported because we consider it to be quality, necessary and well done. As for the fact that the SPO MPs in most of their discussions dealt with the DSS than they did with the measure of the law and our observations, this suggests that they had nothing to answer to. I think the law itself, except maybe called the law, missed the subject. Also, the SPO MPs accused us as a party, identified us with a '90s policy, numerous victims, etc. I think the question is, then, whether the MEPs are aware of who they are sitting with in the government, that those who are criticising and who accuse themselves of being the biggest culprits, are actually the most urgent advocates of adopting this law, which we have had the opportunity to hear yesterday and today. I don't think such a well-conceived legislative proposal will solve practical issues that remain open to the diaspora. Also, this will not make the state's co-operation with the diaspora more efficient, reversible and, after all, will not be beneficial. Yesterday, representing the law, the minister said that this law was actually the cornerstone of a dissipation relationship. I have to notice that if this law is the basis of the diaspora relationship, it seems to me, that building will actually be Popkin's village. Even the head of parliament's largest ruling party made serious reservations and objections yesterday to some of the key provisions of the law, such as the Diaspora Assembly, etc., which is in fact largely coincided with remarks made by DSS MPs. The fact is, there is no precisely defined diaspora database. The task is certainly difficult to take into account its heterogeneity when it comes to motives for leaving Serbia, whether they are political, economic or other. Also, these reasons determine the quality of interest of the members of the diaspora relative to the queen, as well as the different degrees of integrity of the members of the diaspora, even somewhere in the societies where they live today. When all of this is seen, the question arises whether such a conceived legal framework can be considered a serious expression of the state's intention to indeed deal in a quality way with diaspora and Serbs in the region. We will all agree that the state's relationship to the diaspora in the second half of the last century was maternal, that the authorities generated and encouraged many divisions in the diaspora, there were even more drastic examples and moves. The reason is extremely simple, and it was a fear of more serious organisation of the diaspora, whether it's political or someone else, out of fear that the regime would not be threatened at the time. Of course, diaspora felt it because diaspora didn't need control, but diaspora needed co-operation and partnership. As for restoring the trust of diaspora in the womb, it cannot happen overnight, but it is a long and very demanding process. The first formal step in this direction was taken by the government of Vojislav Kostunica, allowing our citizens abroad to vote. That the diaspora's response to the polling stations abroad is still low, just talks about the fact that much more has to be done so that they would like to participate in political processes in our country. But that's certainly a good start. The extent of the diaspora's attachment to the mother should not be further spent on words, it can also be seen during every international sports event, wherever she is, throughout the world, taking place. Our members are really very hearty about all our teams. Also, when the Ministry of Diaspora was formed, there was an idea that it would intervene in a number of different legislative proposals, so that issues from the area would be effectively resolved. Unfortunately, that's missing. It seems to me that those who ran this ministry took more care of everything else than the diaspora issues. Some even used the Diaspora Ministry to promote their own parties. Some even thought about a profitable business, such as charging diaspora members the release from military service of 5,000 euros, two and a half thousand euros, or rather not speculating about the figures. It seems to me that the writer of this law has failed to tell the extent to which the state wants to participate in the life of the diaspora, as well as the degree in which the diaspora needs to participate in the queen's life. This specifically refers to the arrangement or control of their organization. This concise text identifies some formal, minor things, and there is a lack of formulating essential goals. Also, a question arises to what extent there have been quality discussions among the members of the diaspora on this legislative proposal. As far as the remarks are concerned, the DSS has many and they are formulated in the amendment interventions that we have submitted, and some of them are consistent with the remarks, as I have already said, by individual representatives of the ruling parties. In this bill, there is no consistent monitoring of a thread that distinguishes between where our population is indeed dislocated from the queen, and where Serbs are an indigenous population. Also, when dealing with Serb issues in the region, it is not clear that the legislator really understands the situation where Serbs are a constituent people and where they are minorities. One of the key remarks, which was most said, is the way the diaspora Assembly was designed. It is unclear and confusingly defined, because it does not offer answers to who chooses the Assembly, where it chooses, how it works, what its mandate is, etc. In view of the possible and possible compromise of an important issue, the DSS parliamentary group intervened in this case, because instead of being a binding tissue of diaspora and queens, such a solution would only instigate the diaspora and would open the space for possible manipulation and party privatisation of such a significant issue. Also, the way the money is made available, or the Fund is not precisely worked out. In addition, the law foresees only co-financing of projects, does not leave the possibility that one or the other party will independently finance certain projects of common interest. When it comes to the fact that many have manipulated diaspora and state money in the long past, it is clear that these mechanisms must be precise, with an emphasis on money flows control. When it comes to the powers of the Council for Relations with Serbs in the region, certain items are from an external political aspect at the very least, and we talked about the internal political aspect. The Council envisions a representative of only one autonomous province, and as far as we know, the Serbian Constitution knows two provinces in Serbia's composition. Also, a question raised by several MPs is why there are no representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Council. I think it's really unacceptable and we've amendedly intervened on that issue. I hope you'll appreciate the remarks, though, if even some of these remarks are respected, I don't think that's going to change the capacity of this law in any way. To sum up, a single superficial act cannot make a serious move in relation to Serbia with diaspora and Serbs in the region. This requires a comprehensive process in society, which involves embedding into system laws of important issues, issues alongside status, cultural, economic, political and other issues. Do you think this legal proposal will enable and help bring back hundreds of thousands of young, educated people who left it in the '90s? It certainly won't. Will it increase the will of the diaspora to invest in Serbia's economy? I don't think so. This is more like looking for a reason for the Diaspora Ministry to show he's doing something.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27388	Thank you. Mr. Djokic, are you advertising the Rules of Procedure or what? (Branimir Djokic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27389	My DS colleague mentioned me in the presentation, and I don't think he understood me very well, so I'd just like to replicate. I didn't have any special dialogue with Mr. Minister, I simply asked to be answered specifically why there is no representative in the Council of the KIM and there is an AP Vojvodina law in the diaspora law and Serbs in the region. That's one question. The second question I asked the minister to answer is why Serbs living in Bulgaria and Greece were kicked out of the region's law. I asked for a concrete answer, given that I brought a historic building to have over 100,000 Serbs living there since the seventh century.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27390	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS really didn't expect any more of this government when it comes to the law that's on the agenda today. To be honest, we may have expected more from the minister concerned, given that he belongs to a party that is somehow all these years ago, even decades ago, we had a mortgage to exploit this topic of diaspora relations. Of course, Mr. Minister, this law is all but as you wish to present it, nor is it systemic, nor is it a historic milestone, nor will it represent an institutional framework for improving the queen's relationship with Serbs in the diaspora and Serbs in the environment. You're part of a government that's had an opportunity for almost ten years to show a diaspora-different relationship. You failed to count how many people Serbia has in its diaspora for the same period. You're starting to talk about this law on a flat-rate basis and so flexible, speaking of the three to four million diaspora, and in the elections, that same diaspora sends only a few thousand people to vote and thus demonstrate their interest in government in this country. At the beginning of my debate, I will refer in principle to a few things that you mentioned in your reasoning by promoting this law, convincing us MPs that we should vote for it and, I suppose, the public that this is a good law. You're saying in your explanation that this law is a function of uniting all forces of a nation. I remind you, Mr. Sretkovic, that you are part of a government that has sown everything in Serbia for the past ten years, from the local community to the highest state level. Be assured, Mr. Sredkovic, that these divisions have also changed to our diaspora. Yesterday you were talking here about 2,400 associations and associations. The Serbian Radical Party does not like the fact that it is so, but be assured that each of them, or a large majority of them, finds it relevant and that it is authentic and that it is the real representative of the Serbs in the diaspora. You, Mr. Minister, as a representative of the government, have brought into the context of a national awakening with this law. You, who promote globalistic, supranational values, Euro-Atlantic integration, are talking about national awakening. The people who elected you as minister yesterday said that the tradition of this people represents shackles and that we should not be bound by our tradition. You, Mr. Minister, are trying to promote and present this law as a chance for historic reconciliation. A few days ago, the media was buzzing about disturbed relations in the government because a court rehabilitated a historical figure, not entering its historic role. You and Serbia couldn't spare that argument and debate, no matter what the positions of the SRS were, including me personally. You're saying, Mr. Minister, that this law will allow the economic capacities of the diaspora to be supplied here in Serbia. Based on what? We agree with you that they are large, both human and cultural and economic capacity. But Serbia, Mr. Minister, is a country where there is neither legal nor financial security nor the system laws that should be provided are applied. In ten years' time, the authorities in Serbia have failed to provide administrative capacity for our diaspora to come here, invest its money and spend it here, that we who live in Serbia, and certainly those who feel emotions and connections for this queen, for the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, the law is unsettled in technical and other terms. A large number of fellow MPs have said that you are predicting an institution, you are predicting mechanisms whose functioning and choice you have not worked out until the end but on a superficial and flat-rate basis. I'll ask you a simple and ordinary question – what does "experts" mean in Article 23? Who are these experts, respected in their midst, who will be members of the Diaspora Council and Serbs in the region? What should they fulfil as a condition so that Serbia recognises them by law or experiences them as experts? Should they have high schools or should they remind us of the experts you have imported into Serbia, from Djelic to the great expert Dinkic? Why couldn't they be respected Serbian hosts, or from some other people who make up the diaspora of Serbia there, who are recognizable and respected in their midst? It would be nice if you could explain it to us. It's proof of the surface and the writing of the law just works, and this law, according to the SRS, could have been anything, just not that. What is essential to the SRS's objection to this law is the fact that you absolutely absorbed the presence of parliament in the implementation of this law and the control of the implementation of this law. It is true that it has been said before, both in yesterday's and today's debate, but here I am asking you – in which article of the law do you predict that parliament, through your bodies, your committees or individuals, will be presented in the institutions and mechanisms that this law foresees and develops? Take a look at the Environment Relations Council. From the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, to the last, are all the will of the assembly majority, except for SPC representatives, although the state is working very hard to involve these fingers and to fully devalue and devalue the importance, value and meaning of the church and church dignitaries in one serious state. And what does that mean, you invite us? You are inviting us to a general political consensus, and here you have denied those who do not represent the opposition the right to participate in all of this in any way. You again, as a government, usurped the exclusive right to your relations with Serbs in the diaspora. Do you really believe there are no parties in the opposition who care about national reconciliation? Well, if someone had spoken in the last 18 years, acted politically and acted in the spirit of national unity and reconciliation, it was the SRS. Do you think we don't have individuals who, if not great, could at least make a modest contribution to you in the application of this law? No, I don't. We're going back to the beginning of a story that says you've been scarred and that you've been sowing for the last ten years and that you're not able, politically, to overcome them. What does it mean, Mr. Minister, to say - this law sends a clear political message to the diaspora, the President of the Republic is president of a council? Our president understands infrastructure, he understands national security, and now he will be president of the Council for Relations with Serbs outside Serbia. Is that a guarantee? What guarantee is that? What does he know about diaspora? What does he know about these relationships? You oblige him by law to convene the Council once every three months. Do you consider this a clear political message for Serbs in the environment? If that's the price of DS voting for this bill, then we understand and we close our eyes on it, we won't comment again. Mr. Minister, this law is thin, it's not good. The law is none of the things you wanted to introduce. Again, it is not any institutional framework for improving our relations with Serbs outside Serbia, or with Serbs in the diaspora, is not a historic milestone, it is not what would give the Serbs who do not live in their mother a guarantee that Serbia in one rooted, radical way changes its policy and creates and starts to create healthy relations with them. In the end, you will not send any political positive message to these people as long as you rule and govern the principles in which this law was established, in which it will be voted and in which you will apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27392	Mr. Nikola Žutić has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27393	Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, in the principle debate at the Assembly Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, the number of countries covered by the bill included Serbs in the region included Bulgaria, Greece, Turkey and Republika Srpska. My colleague Branislav Djokic was already talking about this problem, so I'm going to cut a part of my story short on the subject. As for Greece, the historic tradition of Serbia's medieval existence in those areas should be respected. It is known to mention Serbs lakes in the early Middle Ages. It is not necessary to forget the unfailing tradition, especially the march of Emperor Dusan and the imperial Serbian country of Thessaloniki. In Greece, after all, there is also a symbol of Serbia's anti-Svetoslavic Orthodoxism, the Hilandar of the Holy Mountain. Because of all this, I don't know why Greece was forgotten. You put it in that brochure of yours. A Serbian tradition in Bulgaria has also been forgotten. Since Serbs, in schools called Slaveni, inhabited those areas prior to the Asian part of today's Bulgarian population, which in the famous Asian warrioric style led by Asparuh in 680, occupied the territory of today's Bulgaria and merged with the Slavic-Serbian majority and received a variant of the Serbian language from the formerly pure Asian Bulgarian tribe, a common newly formed Serbian-Bulgarian national conglomerate took over the Bulgarian name. We in the SRS are asking only that the Serbian historical tradition be cherished through the Serb minority in Bulgaria in agreement with the Bulgarian state, and without any other political or god-given territorial aspirations. We want the truth about the Serbian people in that space to be remembered. A similar historical story is with Turkey. According to some data, about three million Turks speak Serbian in Turkish today. The data can be further linked by the two countries, especially through the care of a common historical tradition in the areas of the Balkans. It should not be forgotten that a number of herdsmen formed from the Serbian national core and translated by Islamisation into elite Turkish warriors. An unfortunate and cruel blood tax, or dervism, when Serbian youths are forced into Turkey, today from this perspective can be a factor in the merger of two once hostile nations. By revealing the historical truth about modern, liberal and well-to-do layistic Turkey, a part of the Turkish population of "the Janjikar origin" could further challenge closeness with the population of today's Serbia. War axes, thank God, have been buried long ago. You see how high-quality basketball is in today's Turkey. For what? It is because of the Serbian background of many Turkish representatives. A little joke doesn't hurt. ) I ask further Mr. Minister why Republika Srpska is not particularly apostrophe as a country of the region, with which Serbia otherwise has special ties. Already, the data suggests a specific problem of Republika Srpska's relations with the Croatian-Bosnian Federation. The abandonment of Republika Srpska from the list of countries covering Serbs in the region endangers the original state-of-the-art provisions of the Dayton Agreement. By abandoning Republika Srpska, we are strengthening BiH's unitarity and thereby jeopardising the Dayton Agreement again. I also ask what is wrong with Serbs in the region or diaspora forgotten, deleted Republika Srpska Krajina, which has just been founded by the people's plebiscite, as well as violently separated republics of internationally recognised Yugoslav states. The legitimate definition of Serbs in Republika Srpska should have the same treatment in international relations. And so it was in the years of war, when the Krajina area was a special protected zone of the UN. Unfortunately, today's government contributes to addressing the problem of Serbs from Republika Srpska under the carpet. But in this lofty assembly home, there are individuals who mock the idea of united Serbian countries, which talk about aggressive radical national politics. Come on, someone in the Croatian Parliament should speak against the today's borders of 'great Croatia', against the great Croatian occupation of Serbian countries, against Croatia, which was created by an aggressive and criminal policy of imperial forces. It certainly wouldn't have been a good time, at least he'd be processed. But in Serbia, in the Serbian parliament, individuals can come forward against the national traditional and state foundations of the Serbian people without any consequences. Thus, for example, Mr Batić's lawyer, Mr Batic, is fooling with the vicious nationalists who mention the border of Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica. The analytical elements indirectly attack the text of the "God of Justice" anthem, which is sung in Serbian countries and in the Serbian Brod. It spits, therefore, in the national historical tradition and nothing to anyone. Mr. Batic doesn't need much of a grudge. He's consistent in his anti-Serbism. That's the kind of consistency I respect him for. Such comedian spiritual extensions, unfortunately, there's a lot in Serbia, and that's the thing. Mr Batic defended Mrs Pesic at a assembly session when I mentioned in a discussion of the Serbian historical border on the symbolic line of the historic Serbian spread Peroj - northern Istria - Serbian Moravice - Gorski Kotar and Žumberak, in which Serbs Greek Catholics or unions live today. One such is German publicist Nikola Zivkovic, who performs from Serbian positions. Then Mr. Batic, with a surprise, cried out, "What Moravices? Is that Moravia in Czech Republic? "So he can freely insult, mentor historical topics, even though he is not a historian. I'm still a historian, and I don't speak in my head. When I was presenting information on Western Serbian countries in my book "Serbian Roman Catholics So-called Croats", I was using Austrian demographics, Austrian accurate censuses from 1846 and 1850. They say precisely mathematically that Serbs dominated the western and central areas of the Western Balkans. It is thus noted that there were 134,555 Serbs of Roman Catholic and Orthodox faith in Istria and the Kvarner Islands. So, very precise data. Furthermore, about 60,000 Italians Latina and about 30,000 Slovenes, without mentioning Croatians and Croatian names. According to the 1850 census, there were about 330,000 Serb Roman Catholics and about 70,000 Serbs in Dalmatia, without mentioning Croats. In Slavonia, Orthodox Serbs and Roman Catholic Shockers were over 250,000, again without mentioning Croats. Dr. Batic, therefore, does not surprise me. But yesterday's so-called. Serbian nationalists from the advanced political formation suddenly meet with a small Serbian programme and change into some kind of social party formation. They're also making fun of the concept of "great Serbia" today. In addition to Dr. Seselj, I too feel called by the ideologists of the Serbian former Radicals programme, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic and Vukic, as I spoke on several occasions about Western Serbian historical countries, which go to the mentioned line Peroj - Serbian Moravica - Žumberak. Mr Nikolic is giving us lessons about the senseless mention of the occupied Western Serbian countries. He's indifference to us - what's the solution? He adheres to violently established Brozovian-Anglo American borders. These borders were also established by war aggression in 1991, but they were achieved by a violent liberalcommunist project in 1945 through the Gilas Commission and Joseph Broz. Today, when Tomislav Nikolic declares that the existing borders between Serbia and Croatia are internationally recognised, he recognises that statement... (President: Mr. Žutić, I'm sorry because 14:00 hours is the usual break time... All right, I've only got five minutes left. (President: would you like to use those five minutes when we start at 15.00 hours? I'd better use them now. (President: All right, here you go. ) Even the Croatian media were surprised and, in doing so, very pleased with Mr Nikolic's statement on Serbia. Nikolic and Vucic, moreover, say that militant radicals want war to achieve their grand Serbian goals, just as the Democrats once accused him of pushing Serbia and Serbian children into bloody wars with their demagogy, so none of the radicals force the war option, but only respect for international law and respect for historical tradition. From whom do we Serbs need to ask permission to speak historical truth about Serbian historical distribution in Serbian historical countries? Mr. Nikolic probably thinks history is one human life, that history is a preserved state of one life. I used to speak to the congregation speaker that Jews must be an example of our perseverance in the care of national traditions. The Jewish mythological story of Palestine as a Jewish country has been realized thousands of years later, and our historical documentary story, which speaks of Serbian countries 150 years ago, is put on a pillar of shame. Mr Nikolic, moreover, together with Vucic, renounces Western Serbian countries, openly attacking the concept of a great Serbia. Mr. Vukic mocks the national ideology of the SRS as an unreal, warlike, and calls the radicals to prepare war for Zadar, Split, Sibenik. According to him, it seems that the Serbian past of these cities should be forgotten. As I said, in Dalmatia, Serbia's national tradition has been lost gradually since the second half of the 19th century, through the acceptance of the Croatian name from the works of the Serbs of the Roman Catholic faith. No one, therefore, wants war, and at least Serbs, who were killed as cannon meat during the 20th century for the interests of large, especially Western liberal countries. The radical idea of a great Serbia at the moment is actually the idea of a national historical and spiritual awareness of the people, and this is not any militarist programme. As a historian, in my public appearances, I liked to remind the public where the boundaries of western Serbian distribution were and what they came down to thanks to the anti-Serb and anti-lawful actions of the Vatican, the Habzburgs, the Comintern, the Nazis and the Anglo-Americans. Mr. Minister, this historic story of mine aims to make the Ministry think more about the force of the ruined diaspora of Republika Srpska, to support the historic truth about the western Serbian spread, to fill the truth more medialy, as Croatian television does, which every day publishes the Gebels' lies about peaceful Croats and Serbian aggressors. So, to go back specifically to the law. I had objections, as I mentioned, to Article 42, about national recognitions. Namely, I'd like to supplement the kind of national recognitions. I would like to propose a national recognition for mathematics and astronomy, which would bear the title - Milutin Milankovic Award. Historical science, as the foundation of humanistic science, is, in my opinion, neglected in this draft law, because no recognition for scientific achievements in history is foreseen. That is why I propose that national recognition for history be educated -- the Radovan Samardzic Prize. The Commission in charge of categories of national recognitions may also designate another prominent historian, but it is important to establish recognition from the area of history. Therefore, the list of national recognitions clearly neglected the history of, for example, language and literature areas for which two national recognitions were provided - Dositej Obradović and Milos Crnjanski. I would give just one more proposal, relating to a legal science that has also been neglected and no national recognition is foreseen, to award a prize that would bear the name -- Slobodan Jovanovic or Laza Kostic. Here's how much I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27394	Thank you. We'll continue at 1504 hours. Mr. Dusan Maric will be the first speaker. [[After break – 15/05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27396	Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this law, in itself, will not change anything unless Serbia in its root changes its attitude towards Serbs outside Serbia. Serbia's current attitude towards Serbs living beyond its borders can be called motherhood rather than, as you say in power today, motherhood. The best confirmation of this claim is what is happening today in Sarajevo. A meeting of Muslim, Croatian and Serbian political leaders is being held under US and EU patronage today in the Sarajevo village of Butmir. The meeting aims to carry out a further revision of the Dayton Agreement and to create conditions for further abolishing Republika Srpska. What is startling is the fact that neither at this nor at previous similar meetings, there are representatives of Serbia and Russia, who, as you know, are guarantors of the Dayton Agreement and the existence of Republika Srpska. It is even more startled by the fact that Serbia has not raised its voice in any way, has not protested the fact that it has not received an invitation to attend today's meeting. The debate on this bill is the right opportunity to speak again about the position of the Serb people outside Serbia, and since my colleagues spoke about the position of the Serb people in Croatia, I will take this opportunity to talk about the position of the Serb people in BiH, but only on the position of Serbs in BiH after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, after the end of the war. In short, that position is much worse than it was 14 years ago. The Serbian people, 14 years after the end of the war, are exposed to media Satanisation in the same way as it was exposed in 1992 or 1999. Media and political defamation of the Serb people in BiH can best be seen in the Srebrenica case. According to some real data, about three thousand Muslim soldiers were killed in Srebrenica, two thousand were killed in the struggles with Serb forces, and estimated between 800 and 1200 were shot after capture. These soldiers, before they were killed, which is certainly a war crime, committed terrible crimes against the Serb population in Podrinj. As you know, they destroyed more than 130 Serbian villages and villages, killing about 3,300 Serb people. There were more than 1,000 Serb civilians among the killed. So on the one hand, you have killed Muslim soldiers, and on the other hand the same number of Serb civilians killed. What is amazing is that for most of the world's media in BiH, for most media in Serbia, for The Hague tribunal, for the International Court of Justice, for most or for a large number of politicians in Belgrade, killing Muslim soldiers is a crime of genocide, and killing Serb civilians is not even a war crime. This is a classic example of the Satanization and discrimination of the Serb people. The relationship between the two arches to the Serbian people and its victims illustrates the relationship towards the killed Serbian civilians in Sarajevo and Muslim soldiers in Srebrenica. In Sarajevo, some 3,200 Serb civilians were killed during the war, according to current lists, not to mention about 5,000 soldiers. These people were not members of the Serb army, before the killed committed no crime, had no weapons and uniforms. They were simply taken out of their houses and apartments, often with members of their families, and murdered. A few dozen Serbian civilians were killed after a beastly torture in a camp in the "Vicor Bubanj" barracks. For ten years, the campers have been trying to place on a building where they camped a monument of half a square metre, as a sign of memory of their dead whisperers and a reminder of 3,000 Serb civilians killed in Sarajevo. Every time they tried to set up that record, they were welcomed by armed police cordons. At the same time, in the territory of Republika Srpska, in Potocari near Srebrenica, an impressive mausoleum was erected on the dead soldiers of Naser Oric at more than ten hectares of the Serbian country. Now watch out for this situation, the constituent people in BiH -- Serbs, the constituent people -- Muslims. Muslim soldiers have the right to mausoleum in Republika Srpska, dozens of hectares of land, and Serbian civilians in Sarajevo do not have the right to receive half a metre square on the facade of a Muslim building. A crime of ethnic cleansing has been committed against Serbs in BiH, as you know. More than 460,000 Serbs from Sarajevo, Central Bosnia and Bosnian Krajina were expelled. Unfortunately, the second stage of the conduct of the crime of ethnic cleansing is under way, as the Muslim and Croatian authorities in the Federation of BiH are doing virtually everything to prevent the return of the exiled Serb population. The consequences are the following -- at least 527 settlements in the Muslim-Croatian Federation, where only Serbs lived before the war, no longer exist. So, the rest of the ruins are houses, broken churches, destroyed cemeteries, cut orchards and vineyards, in weeds, healed fields. That's all that's left of Serbs in 527 settlements. Unfortunately, return to Serbs is not only impossible in villages, but also in urban areas. In many BiH cities, the number of Serb returnees and the number of Serbs living in them can literally be counted on the fingers of two hands. I'll give you an example of Kupres. Before the war, 2,300 Serbs lived in Kupres, and they accounted for 65% of the population. Only seven Serbs live in Kupres today. Nine live in neighbouring Duvn, there are no Serbs in Capljina, 18 Serbs live in the old Serbian town of Key. There were 16,000 Serbs living in Bihać before the war, and now there are 380 Serbs, and there were 24,000 Serbs living in the Sanski Most, and now only 2,500 are allowed to return. The most massive ethnic cleansing was carried out in the BiH capital, Sarajevo, the same one where politicians from Belgrade, including Serbian President Boris Tadic, are very often and very happy to apologize to Muslims for crimes committed by Serbs over the Muslim population. Out of the pre-war 168,000 Serbs in Sarajevo now live seven thousand. They do not have the opportunity to get leadership jobs like Muslims in Republika Srpska, to get political functions, but not have the right to work. Those in Sarajevo literally live as second-class citizens. As living Serbs in the Federation of BiH are seen from the following data -- in at least 70 Serb settlements in the Federation, where people have returned and where 15,000 inhabitants live, and among them 1,900 children, there is still no electricity, and we live in the 21st century, and since the war has been 14 years. In parallel with the media, the Satanisation of the Serbian people is also carried out through the work of the judiciary authorities, on three parallel colossals -- Sarajevo, Belgrade and The Hague. Out of the ten indictments filed by the Sarajevo prosecutor's office, nine were brought against Serbs and one against Croats and Muslims. It is literally the same relationship in the BiH court's rulings. Perhaps because the court is located right in the building of the Vicor Bubanj barracks, which 15 years ago contained a camp where more than 400 were tortured and more than 60 Serb civilians were killed. As for the UN tribunal and its participation in the Satanisation of the Serb people in BiH, you yourself know that the accused and convicted is the full political, military and police leadership of the Serbs in BiH. According to some automation, those in The Hague tribunal get between 20 and 30 years in prison. At the same time, the number of indicted Muslims is symbolic, and it seems to me that so far only three full-fledged verdicts have been handed down for Muslim crimes against Serbs, to the symbolic sentences of two to three years in prison. What is worrying is that arches similar to Sarajevo and The Hague apply Serbia's judiciary as well. The trial against participants in the attack on the JNA column in Tuzla on May 15th 1992 is practically the only major trial conducted in Belgrade for crimes committed against the Serb people. The rest are processes led against Serbs for crimes committed against Muslims. For example, several court proceedings have been conducted in Belgrade for the murder of several dozen Zvornik-based Muslims, but there is no court case for the brutal, beastly murder of more than 400 Serb civilians in the municipality of Zvornik. In this way, a message is sent to the world that Serbs are indeed the greatest criminals. If said in Belgrade, such claims cannot be expected to be challenged by Brussels, Washington, Sarajevo or Zagreb. A similar judiciary is also being handled by a significant number of media and politicians in Serbia and almost all the more significant NGOs involved in the so-called. protecting human rights. It is incomprehensible that the president of Serbia leaves and bows down to killed Muslim soldiers in Srebrenica, who have committed terrible crimes against Serb civilians before, and refuses to go to Bratunac on that same day and bow to the remains of Serb soldiers and civilians killed, but only by a year later. It is also incompatible and making it difficult for the Serb people in BiH to contribute to its Satanisation, when Serbian President Boris Tadic goes to Sarajevo and apologizes to Muslims there for the crimes committed against Muslims in Sarajevo, and literally does not provide for a single word to gain some reciprocity, that Muslim politicians, at least in a symbolic way, apologize for killing more than 3,000 Serb civilians in Sarajevo. When you have this relationship, then, in any case, Muslim and Croatian politicians in BiH are encouraged to continue with their fundamentally criminal policy towards the Serb people, whose ultimate goal is to abolish Republika Srpska. I will now present some facts that speak about what all Republika Srpska's competencies have lost over the past 14 years. Thanks to Serbian politicians from Banja Luka, whether because of their ignorance or inadequacy, whether because of careerism, whether because of fears of the Hague indictment, whether because of money, whether because of all of it a little, but thanks to them and thanks to Belgrade's silence, Republika Srpska first gave up the Dayton right to give its citizens citizenship. That right has been granted to the central government in Sarajevo. After citizenship, the authorities in Banja Luka and the Palace gave up the right to issue registration plates on vehicles, issue driver's licenses and determine their appearance. Serbs in BiH then ran out of their own money, so the Serbian dinar replaced, as you know, a converting mark, whose convergence begins and ends in its name. Serbian politicians have easily agreed to give up autonomous tax policy, so that money from taxes in Republika Srpska is being collected by the Directorate for Direct Taxation in Sarajevo. I am saying all of this for the reasons that I believe these things directly concern the Republic of Serbia, for two reasons. The first reason is that the existence of Republika Srpska with attributes of statehood that it had in 1995 is the vital interest of Serbia. Another reason is that Serbia is a signator of an international agreement that guarantees respect for the Dayton Peace Agreement and the existence of Republika Srpska. After tax, Serbs in Republika Srpska, with the silence of Belgrade, gave up the right to issue ID cards, passports and traffic permits and, practically, deleted Republika Srpska's markings from those documents. The Dayton Agreement to Republika Srpska included customs and the protection of its own border. The work is now being done by a single State Border Service, based in Sarajevo. If Republika Srpska wants to, this may be a banal example, to increase the number of television and radio stations in the future, it will no longer be able to do so alone, without the consent of Croatian and Muslim politicians. With the help of the occupation authority, Banja Luka has given Sarajevo and the justice of Republika Srpska and now you have this situation to press charges every month in BiH and to give sentences for the real or imaginary crimes that Serbs have committed against Muslims, but therefore there are almost no judicial proceedings for crimes committed against Serbs, so you still have no convictions, you have not even begun the crimes against Serbs in Sarajevo, Podrinj, Sansko Most, Mrkonjic, Bosnian Brod, Kupres, etc. Republika Srpska gave up the right to have its own army, as you know, by force of opportunity, because of the co-operation of Serbian politicians in Banja Luka and thanks to silence in Belgrade. Republika Srpska's army is drowned in a joint army with Croats and Muslims. In the end, what is incomprehensible to common sense and what is most difficult for the Serbian people after the abolition of the Republika Srpska army, is the fact that Serbian politicians have agreed to practically lose their security services. As a result of all this, we have this meeting today in Butmir near Sarajevo and, while we are discussing, I really think, peripheral things, in Sarajevo it literally decides whether Republika Srpska will continue to exist. As you know, Muslims have two demands. Of course, the US and the EU are behind these requirements. The first is a requirement for Republika Srpska to give up its police force, and the second is a requirement to waive veto rights in joint authorities in Sarajevo. Practically, it is a complete abandonment of the Dayton Agreement, and the Dayton Peace Agreement is practically the only international contract guaranteeing the existence of Republika Srpska. For these reasons, I believe that Serbia must be actively involved in this process and published today. I think the diaspora minister should explain why the Republic of Serbia is not participating in today's negotiations in Butmir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27397	The word is Mr. Bojan Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27398	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, I consider the relationship between the country and the diaspora a relationship of great national and national interest. The approximation of Serbs who are separated for a number of reasons is of exceptional importance. Several immigration waves are the reason for the Serb people's separation. History records emigration back in the 18th and 19th centuries, but Serbian emigration often involves a wave of political refugees after World War II, then a wave that took a large number of our people abroad from the mid-60s to the end of the 70s and finally the last wave from the 1990s, which has not completely stopped yet, and has caught the Serb people from all of the former Yugoslav republics. Serbia should welcome and enable the return of the Serb people who want to come and live in Serbia at any moment, as well as to provide material conditions for that. Everyone who wants to come back is welcome. It must be possible for them to bring their material and spiritual goods, which, apart from their presence and the presence of their offspring, will complement and enrich our country. Compared to the number of Serbians, it is right to say that the Serbian diaspora is very numerous, as it represents more than a third of the country's population. The Serbian diaspora implies all those who experience Serbia as a queen and who identify themselves with Serbia in both cultural and linguistic terms, whether they have Serbian citizenship or are members of another or third generation of emigrants, whether they live in overseas countries or in the region, whether they are Serbian nationalities or are members of some of the national minorities living in Serbia. The potential of our diaspora is extremely large - ideas, knowledge, experience, business ties, capital, which can contribute to our country's economic development. Therefore, business co-operation between diaspora and queen entities is extremely important, then economic co-operation between diaspora and queens, organization of business meetings, promotion of diaspora and queen representatives, exchange of economic information between the queen and the diaspora and the like. It is important and important to make concrete proposals for projects that are interested in representatives of the diaspora and businessmen from abroad for investing in Serbia's economy, development of municipalities in Serbia and the like. However, not only should it be related to economic co-operation and constantly mention it, but scientific, cultural sports and many other forms of co-operation between the diaspora and the queen should also be improved. Diasporas should provide all the necessary information concerning the economic, cultural and political life of the home country. Particular attention should be paid to enabling the learning of Serbian and Cyrillic letters. When events are organised in Serbia of any character, much more needs to be taken care of when they are held, which is not the case today, that they are exactly the moment when a large number of Serbs from abroad are present, which is during New Year's, Christmas holidays, summer vacations and so on. It is necessary to help the diaspora as much as possible, not just to require capital from them and to invest in Serbia. More care should be taken about Serbian communities abroad, as there are many poor people there too. Ten years ago, when he was in the republican government, the SRS allowed the purchase of a large number of books donated to our children in Romania, as well as a child transport van to school. Also, during that period, we organised the first meeting of Serbian journalists from abroad at the Youth Hotel, where over 50 journalists from several countries came from several continents, which we consider to be extremely important for relations between the country and the diaspora. The annual report on the work of the Ministry of Diaspora said Mileva Maric-Einstein's memorial plate was set up in Zurich. I am taking the opportunity to ask the question of the Minister himself – whether enough is taken care of at all about cultural historical monuments that have been placed in honor of our greats abroad, because what we see in Serbia, in what state they are in, does not give us the hope of taking care of them. I will give you an example only in my municipality of Voždovac, where you do not have adequate access to the home of Duke Stepanović or parking space. The yard is healed and unencumbered, there's a part of the fence that looks, probably, even set up by the Duke himself. The warlord who spent over 40 years in the Serb army doesn't deserve this kind of relationship. The city's mechanism, also on Vozdovac, in Kumodraž village, which is an otherwise protected facility, has completely collapsed, without windows and doors, full of waste and garbage. I've only cited these two examples of how one municipality treats its monuments, and I hope that's not the case abroad. I would end the exposure to the fact that the diaspora should not only be looked at through economic co-operation and economic exploitation, but should be given as close as possible to co-operation with the queen, as much as possible to invite them to come to their homeland and take much more care of the poor Serbs, who unfortunately have many abroad, who have failed in an adequate way, who often feel that they are left to themselves, who feel alone and forgotten by their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27399	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Milorad Buh. There are three minutes left for your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27400	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will give a summary and a kind of view of this issue in these three minutes. We said this matter was regulated by the Constitution, regulated by a number of regulations. As a result, we have a certain objection, which we made yesterday, which is that this law lays down the powers and obligations of the Ministry of Diaspora until we see the obligations of the other ministries and state bodies. So the basic, basic pillar of the SRS comes from the fact that all state authorities have to work on this. If we leave it to the Ministry of Diaspora, we've painted free - this law will only be a law on paper, we won't be able to fertilize it and bring it to life in practice. The other thing, no funds, no work. This ministry gets at least the funding, and you have to make an effort in the government to act on far greater resources. Because without funds, you can't run co-operation, you can't develop that co-operation, and on the other hand, that very important segment, which applies to refugees, you have to treat it in a completely different way than you've treated it so far. Here's one proposal, that's the third basic pillar on which the SRS insists. Without a list, without real records of the number of our diaspora, there's nothing we can do. We in the congregation procedure have a census law. It is a convenient opportunity for you to make your proposals on what is necessary in terms of creating a database in the census. So far we've had, only after the war I think this is the sixth census. You need to use those databases. That's where the files on the people who left are. On the other hand, we have complementary data on the population that has come to these areas, both refugees and internally displaced persons and all other structures of the population. In the law itself, you don't have almost any provisions on local self-government. Local self-government is best aware of its population structure, and you have not incorporated in the law provisions which oblige local self-government that within the authority of the administration there is one department that will deal with persons belonging to this category - diaspora, refugees and internally displaced persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27401	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, the SPS-JS parliamentary group. You have six minutes, five minutes and 45 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27402	President-in-Office, members of the presidency, Mr Minister, co-workers of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS-JS parliamentary group is at the heart of the fact that the adoption of such a law is very important. Of course, by adopting this law, not all assumptions are made for the ideal working with people who live in dispersion, nor do we think that this law is the ultimate achievement in our country's legislation. Indeed, practice will show that it will be necessary to supplement and modify it in certain parts, and in order to improve this sphere. Every serious state takes care of its diaspora, and we should resort to such a single attitude, because it is very important to unite all the forces and potentials of the diaspora because of what their interests are there, far beyond our country, but certainly also the interests of our country, our citizens. Very often, these relationships extract a common denominator and there are common interests both material and spiritual. We of the SPS-JS think that we shouldn't direct the discussion here, focus and potentiate on what the diaspora gene in the past time and deal with certain periods and causes of diaspora, whether it's a significant part of the diaspora, perhaps even before World War II, for certain reasons... Of course, it was after World War II, and it was later, during self-government, and during Tito. It is said here that in the 1990s there has been a significant departure of our people to other countries, and it is certainly true that it is important to go to our people, especially the young world, after 2000. If we were to do this now and put the accent on these arguments, then we missed the topic. We keep in mind that we should not deal primarily with these aspects that aim at some calculation and an extension of time in Serbia in which we will continue to be divided. The bottom line is that without ideological prejudice and starting points, we do everything we can to really attract the diaspora, the people in the distance, and to contribute to the common forces further development both of Serbia's countries and the realisation of the interests of those people who live there. They are certainly in such a connection of great advantages in terms of and relief for the country of Serbia to make it better, for example. foreign policy, to faster achieve certain results in the scientific field, etc. I think there's too much logic in the discussions that this is about a law that regulates the issue of the Serbian diaspora. Of course, the law should do so, I think it does, but it is, in fact, necessary to work on forming awareness of the diaspora, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the nationality, who feel Serbia's heart and soul as their country, as their mother, and often depends on the majority of the people, that these minorities and those people who lead the origins of Serbia will treat Serbia, the queen, as we say. It should be more careful in terminology and in certain definitions. There are certain indiscretions. For example, in Article 2 of the diaspora are citizens of the Republic of Serbia living abroad, as well as members of the Serbian people emigrants from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their descendants. (President: Mr. Michaelovich, it's past time, finish your sentence. ) The question arises, "What about the other nationalities that are emigrants?" Let me just point out another aspect, very briefly. We have a large number of people, as previously said, on temporary work abroad. Maybe tens of thousands from certain municipalities...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27403	Thank you, Mr. Michaelovich. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before I conclude the search in principle, I know that Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic will seek the word and, of course, get it. I would like to, honourable MPs, just to clarify that there was an unpleasant situation yesterday because it is common for all present presidents and representatives of the parliamentary groups that the order of announcements goes from the smaller ones to the largest. If someone's not here, then he has the right to participate in the end. I'm really sorry. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27404	Now I'm going to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27405	Excuse me, you have 15 minutes. First you have a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27406	First of all, President, what you just said was not true because there was insight into the stenographic notes, and the public of Serbia had the opportunity to see in the transmission that I was there when you called me. So I suggest you take a tape of the sessions, which are definitely being recorded, and see what's going on. You called me, I was there, Mr. Buha also answered his word, I gave him the championship, then for some reason you considered me a nonexistent person. I think Mrs. Hope Kolundji's influence was probably crucial. She showed up and she got the word. So it's recorded, there's a tape of a session and there's a lot of witnesses, and these are the citizens of Serbia who saw it. I had no intention of doing this until now, but now I'm going to ask you to apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27407	You know what, I gave you my word and the other members of the presidency reminded me of the usual way of running and giving words...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27408	Wait, am I a smaller parliamentary group than radicals and DS?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27409	You weren't the first time...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27410	Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, you'll see the video...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27411	Let me tell you, you're absolutely right. The facts you're making are absolutely like that, but the point is that the first time you were in the O.R., you had to wait until they got the word first...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27412	I saw myself in an O.R. in all my size, which is the scariest, and it saw...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27413	I think you understand. I'm just sorry if you don't understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27414	I'm a little blonde, so I probably don't understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27415	So, from the smallest to the largest parliamentary group. When the first round is over, they get a chance again for those who weren't there, not among those present, but at the time of your timing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27416	Mrs. Djukic, I know that you, as president of the Assembly, are under a lot of tension. There are various pressures, and it's clear to me that it's not easy for you to run this session, and I will now accept that I apologize to you for telling the truth. Is that right? Here, I apologize for being here when you called me (which was seen in the video) and for giving the word to Mr. Buha. I apologize for not giving up my speech after Hope Kolundzhija, because half of Serbia is writing to me today and sending me e-mails from the type "Alexandra Kolundžija", "Nada Jankovic". I really can't stand it. So you've caused me psychological trauma, but I apologize to you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27417	You have your word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27418	Thank you. There's one more thing to inform you. Since the NS parliamentary group has not used its time, I, as an authorised representative, will also use the time of the NS Parliament Club, which is with these 15 minutes - how much? So 15 plus 11 is 26. I'll probably get 23.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27419	I'm sorry, you're not registered.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27420	How could I not?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27421	It's just like an authorised representative, and you're not a speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27422	And can an authorised representative use time...? He can't?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27423	Not if you're not on this list.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27424	Okay. So I'll probably join Mladen, Mishi and Radet very soon, as things stand. Face, 1389, Dverry, maybe National Machine... All right, let's go. So early work of the SPO. Someone made an aphorism for the Serbs in the diaspora that it's "Serbs out of themselves." I don't remember if Mr. Chotric or Mr. Baljak, but it was funny. The later phase, the later works of the SPO, it is now a truly developed phase and in English it would sound, about, Serbia "without mind". That must have been what the pioneers of the SPO did back then. In any case, this law really looks like an aphorism, because it laughs at him, Mr. Sredkovic, the whole diaspora. So, looking at the comments, I already said that on the Committee, diaspora to the diaspora law, I noticed that there is no affirmative comment. Either those who think your law is illiterate, or unreachable by e-mail, or there really is no one who supports this diaspora law. You, I must admit, have worked hard. The fact is, you've worked hard and it's not easy to build a diaspora law. It is also a fact that we in New Serbia believe that one system law, which would solve the problems of Serbs outside Serbia, is necessary, but that, earlier on, this law cannot pass because some basic problems have not been solved. So, you also (I received information) received a report on the political rights of the Serbian people in the region for 2008 and 2009 and in the introduction of the report, which I doubt you read because you did not mention it, it is said that Serbia regained independence in 2006 and became the queen of the Serbian people again after 88 years. In our time, Mr. Srekovic, in the Balkans, lives outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia about a quarter of the Serbian people. As you have made the law, it is hardly the quarter of the Serbian people will be satisfied not only with individual solutions, but with global solutions. Definitely, a report on Serbian people's political rights in the region finds that the Republic of Serbia does not have a lasting and thoughtful policy towards the Serbian people living outside its borders. The rationalisations for what is not there are, in fact, two – the first, that the civil and human rights of Serbs in those republics are more important than collective political ones, that they are essentially understood, and the second, that the whole region, so on. The Western Balkans, soon to join the EU, will derail state borders and allow all Serbs to live united. It is a fantastic thesis, as well as this attempt of yours, that is, complicity in recognising an independent state of Kosovo. What do we care if we have or don't have a southern province, do we have a Vojvodina in the end, when we're all going to join the EU once? Extraordinary. Why should we even think about any kind of life problem and sit in the congregation when we will all sit in the kingdom of heaven once? So we don't have to do anything, we just have to wait for that moment. What is also a fact that the state absolutely does not lead an active policy towards Balkan Serbs living outside its territory. Experiences from the last two decades of the 20th century force this policy to practically be the backbone of Serbia's foreign policy. Although Serbia has been defined by the 2006 Mitrovica Constitution as a state of Serbian people who is obliged to take care of Serbian people in neighbouring countries and diaspora, the country has not been organised to date. It is a particularly problematic issue of state policy towards Serbs in Montenegro, Macedonia, Albania and Slovenia. Serbia obviously does not recognise the existence of the Serbian people in Montenegro. Serbian diplomacy is in some way not concerned with the issue, neither is your ministry concerned, and all of it, starting with the view that Serbs and Montenegrins are one people. Loaded in certain cases of family origin and personal interests, Serbian statesmen are deafened about the apparent discrimination of Serbs in Montenegro and the pressures to their national, religious and cultural assimilation. The situation with the Serbs in Macedonia is similar. Despite the assimilation and ban on the functioning of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Macedonia, Serbia has never raised that important issue before the Council of Europe or UN institutions. It is also a symbolic state concern about medieval and monuments from the Balkan and First World War on Macedonia's territory. The paradoxical fact is that more Serbian representatives from Macedonia were elected to the Ottoman Empire parliament than there are today political representatives of the Serbs in Macedonia's Sober. In Albania, over 40 years, Serbs have been deprived of rights enjoyed by national communities. Things haven't changed at all over the last few years, unfortunately. It is obvious, therefore, that the authorities in Serbia do not have a permanent state, educational, cultural policy towards Serbs in those countries. Unlike, for example, the Republic of Croatia, which in Serbia is achieving a long-term state and economic policy, Serbia's actions, its diplomacy and this "Serb Ministry for Off-Serbs", as you do, in Croatia, are actually limited to declarative views regarding reconciliation and efforts to achieve some new Yugoslav unity on the axis of Belgrade-Zagreb. In BiH, the government of the Republic of Serbia is interested in co-operation for Republika Srpska. But I wonder how much you from this party state government are really interested in Serbs in Republika Srpska. Because, according to the incarceration of the media that you control or manage to choke, and in the absence of any discussion in this assembly, you are also practically complicit in the decommissioning of the Republika Srpska. Today, I'm only on one media, which, according to official duty, has to publish something of this guy, on B92, that the atmosphere in Butmir, by the mysteries and conversations behind the well-closed doors, is very reminded of the atmosphere in Dayton. What's this about? Some kind of review of the Dayton Agreement? Is Serbia still a guarantee of the Dayton Agreement? Do you, Mr. Lucky, interfere in your business? The package of measures is not known to be passed, but it is known that the change of the BiH Constitution is aimed at gaining stronger credibility. Everyone will have to swallow a bitter pill – at last night's secret dinner said Steinberg, Ren and Bilt, and by nature things, Serbs in Republika Srpska and the worst. Although there is no clear position on the entity vote, which Republika Srpska considers crucial, the intention is obvious to allow the change of the constitution to join NATO. How do you take care of Serbs in Republika Srpska? How does the party government in Serbia take care of them at the moment? It is obviously a completely wrong understanding of national policy, indifference, and we have had the opportunity here to see, the nausea of the Serbian national issue, as well as the belief of its own speciality in the work of the reform and pro-European elite. I still don't understand, Mr. Sretkovic, what is the new patriotism of the Western type, and I am even less clear that this new patriotism of the Western type will make the country an economically strong and politically influential state, which for allies has the strongest countries in the world and which therefore has the democratic capacity to defend our national and national interests in the best possible way. I hope I quoted you correctly. Does this mean that Serbia has the strongest countries in the world for enemies and that it is necessary to forget everything that Serbs have meant for centuries under the notion of patriotism? Take "Vujaklia" and read what patriotism is. Since the ages, Serbs have seen patriotism as patriotism, a love of their own country, which has never manifested itself in any other way, by other people's understanding of this concept. Through their entire history, Serbs under patriotism have meant fostering and developing free, democratic and defence traditions. For centuries and decades, Serbia has been fueled by free and combat traditions, emanating from many battles, battles, riots, uprisings and wars. I can't believe that, as a SPO representative, you can forget the tradition that was created in wars waged against the Ottoman Empire, the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and fascist countries. And should we really accept the patriotism of the Western type, forget people and events related to both Serbian uprisings, Balkans, First and Second World War, forget Misar, Deligrad and Chegar, Cer, Drina, Kolubara, Thessaloniki Front? If we from the national conscious opposition parties, as well as the national conscious Serbs, are not clear on what this new patriotism of the Western type is, try to explain it to someone in writing, let's say to Russian President Medvedev, who comes October 20th. Is Russia a world power, is Russia our strategic partner, has there been a close political relationship between Serbia and Russia at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the hit foundations of strong economic co-operation, which were formalised when the then minister, President of New Serbia, president of our parliamentary club Velimir Ilic, signed the Energy Agreement in Moscow? You accepted that, but in a way you write off Russia as an economically strong and politically influential state, speaking of the new patriotism of the Western type. God forbid. One more thing. Unaware pads often reveal much more about the intentions of a person than what that person would consciously and in control of her. No matter how hard you try to present this law as an out-of-the-way, non-partial, failure of your fellow Yugoslav, who has been involved here by explaining to you what this new patriotism is, it is very indicative. He said "patriotism." The criticism of this law in one word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27425	You have three more minutes, if you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27426	No, I'll take my three minutes, let's say, Mrs. Kolundjia, there you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27427	Mr. Nikolic, are you advertising the Rules of Procedure or did you accidentally answer? You have two minutes and 30 seconds left. Will you? I see you signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27428	Thank you. We have been discussing this law for more than eight hours, and I think the DSS's position is quite clear, so all MPs of the DSS Group have made their views and objections. What we have tried to do in this principle debate is to make arguments for our views, and I hope we will finally hear the answers from Minister Sretkovic to all the arguments that we have made regarding both the functioning of the Assembly and the functioning of the Diaspora Council and the Council for Serbs in the region. It has been asked here many times, and I think the minister will honor us with that answer – what is the new patriotism of the Western type? What is very important to us, I want to inform you once again, although I think you know, that the parliamentary group has submitted exactly 36 amendments, that we hope that many amendments can be adopted, and it is obvious that the head of the DS parliamentary group has expressed good intentions to consider these amendments more seriously, I hope, on Tuesday, on a Committee on Serbs outside Serbia. So, as I've concluded, and I think I've concluded correctly, the DS exposure to the head of the parliamentary group has actually challenged a concept like this, we'll just see if the amendments can fix it. This is a rather clumsy bill, controversial and methodological and per its content in many aspects. We really haven't had such a bad bill in a long time, and it points to one inconsistency in conducting a policy towards diaspora. I asked the minister at the beginning, I would like to see which is the relevant Serbian organisation in the diaspora uncontestably supported this law, but if she had done so in writing, with a seal and a signature. I will remind you, and I will conclude, that former Minister Vukcevic worked very closely with the Serbian United Congress. According to his statements, and I call for interviews from December 2005, it is a pattern and it is possible that an organisation that should unite all Serbs. We have now faced the Serbian United Congress against such a bill. I hope you'll finally answer all these questions. I will see you on the Committee on Serbs outside Serbia, hoping that many amendments will be adopted and that we can fix this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27429	Thank you. Mr. Minister, do you want to take part and give the final word? Here you go. Mr. Srdjan Sretkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27430	Thank you very much. Madam President, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I thank all those who participated in this truly interesting and constructive discussion. As a member of the government, who is the legislator of this law, I would like to refer to some thesis, suggestions and suggestions that I consider most important. This law reflects Serbia's firm determination to be a modern, democratic, internationally attached country, which wants to be a leader in the region and part of all European integrations, while preserving our identity and growing the closest possible relationship of co-operation with our people around the world. This law is important because we are a member of the 13th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia obliges us to take care of all our citizens living abroad and their descendants, regardless of their national, religious or any other belonging, as well as all the members of the Serb people and their descendants. In fact, this member of the Serbian Constitution has named this law, which some MPs had a dilemma about. We want to make much better use of the potential of our dispersion through a new policy, both economically and politically. We want to correct the mistakes of the past, when our diaspora of the state is treated as a political opponent, not as a partner and an ally. We should all be concerned about the fact that more than three million of our people live scattered around the world and never again allow Serbia to beat the policy that leads us to totalitarianism, isolation and economic collapse, because that is exactly why people have left these spaces. On the other hand, we owe our diaspora great gratitude and support to organize themselves even better, because they make an immeasurable contribution to improving our country's image, without which there is no integration into a civilized world. All those who claim that diaspora is irrelevant and that we do not need a policy of dispersion, must know that the diaspora is just one of the key factors of economic stability and that annual foreign exchange accounts of our $5 billion diaspora are actually the key reason why Serbia is living something better than official statistics show. These figures reach nearly 15% of GDP and this, in practice, means that each citizen of Serbia earns $58 per month on this basis, on average, and 15% of the average salary. The financial support of the diaspora is greater than the annual support of the IMF and the World Bank. That's what everyone needs to be aware of, I mean those who dispute the need to lead politics towards dispersion. In 2000, the diaspora invested about $500m in Serbia. There are 20,000 people working in these companies today, and that is a fantastic result even though the potential is much higher. We can and we need a lot more, because the economic potential of our distribution is estimated at 26 billion dollars. For this, among other things, we need this law, which will define state mechanisms to diaspora with a positive approach and by offering concrete projects to encourage and encourage investment in the country, to prove to them that Serbia is changing for the better and that we are better every day than we were yesterday. Never again must our people in the world be treated as political enemies, and Serbs in the region must never again be abused for daily political purposes. By adopting this law, we send a message to the dissident that it's past the time of fraud, that it's past the time of irresponsible approach and politics. We are creating an institutional framework for a new long-term and responsible policy, which I am absolutely convinced of. The diaspora ministry has done its work in the past year to help the state of Serbia finally recognise the importance of diaspora and Serbs in the region. I stress that the implementation of this law does not require additional appropriations, and with a budget of just 120 million dinars, so with a budget that is smaller, for example, than the municipality of Crna Trava, which is only 0.0025% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and with only 33 employees, we have achieved uncontested results and invested a lot of energy and sacrifice. I am absolutely certain that this is a new beginning, which will contribute to the historic reconciliation of different parts of the same people and to the start of a new policy, which will benefit both the state of Serbia and each of our people wherever they live. It is hardly ever possible that any law in the Serbian Parliament was passed after a wider and more democratic public debate. The working version of the law was published on 1 December 2008, and the Serbian government established the bill in May this year. During the public debate, which lasted for six months, more than 600 stands and round tables were held around the world, and the work version of the law was sent to 2,400 addresses of our organizations, associations and prominent individuals, with the invitation to be directly involved in the creation of this law through competitive proposals, objections and suggestions. The Assembly Committee for Serbs outside Serbia has been open and democratic at four sessions, along with me and the presence of the entire leadership of the ministry, or my associates, to discuss this law and to accept a large number of well-intentioned proposals from the opposition, which have become an integral part of the final version of the bill that is before you today. There's one thing I'd like to point out in particular. This law is a joint project of the diaspora of Serbs in the region and the state of Serbia, i.e. all relevant state institutions in this country, and I am proud of it. Don't mind me, but I feel a moral obligation to once again thank some of those who have made their own concrete contribution in a random order and with equal respect. These are the people, associations and organisations who have been partners with us in making this law and I think they deserve the public of Serbia to know who they are. The Congress of Serbian Associations from the United States, Australia and Belgrade; the Serbian National Defence from the United States, Canada and Australia; the Union of Serbian Associations in Germany; the Central Council of Serbs in Germany; the Union of Serbs Austria; the Community of Serbian Clubs Vienna; the Serbian Cultural Union of Switzerland; the Serbian Union in Sweden; the Serbian Cultural Community Arzinjano from Italy; the Party of Serbs from Macedonia; the Serbian Society of Great Britain; the Serbian Cultural Centre from Slovenia; the Association of Serbian Associations of Serbia; the Serbian Association of "Save" from the Czech Republic, 'Prosveda' from Croatia; the Joint Council of the University of Vukovar', the Association of Serbs in Sweden; the Association of Serbian Writers from Switzerland, the Union of Serbs in Romania; the Church of the "Sarician Association of the Republic" The Association of the National Alliance of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ljubljana, the Republic of Croatia, the Association of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia I note once again that the order is random and I thank everyone most sincerely. After long and exhaustive consultations with historians, linguists and our experts at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this law has for the first time defined our dispersion clearly and precisely. These definitions are the result of months of serious and responsible work. The diaspora, therefore, is economic and political emigration, which went abroad at different times, mostly because of the wrong policy that led to the lack of democratic freedoms and poor living conditions. The diaspora is made up of all our citizens and descendants of our citizens living outside the borders of our country, I stress - regardless of national, religious, political or any other belonging, and members of the Serbian people emigrants from the region and their descendants. Serbs in the region are the indigenous population who have lived in these areas for centuries. In some countries, they have been or are still a constituent nation. After thorough consultations with historians, Serbs in Bulgaria and Greece, despite some proposals that could be heard here, could not be classified as Serbs in the region in terms of this law, because in these countries, despite historical data, there is no identified Serbian national community in terms of indigenous population. The bearer institutions of the new policy will be the Parliament of Diaspora and Serbs in the region, which will be a symbol of unity between the state and the people. It's a basic idea. The proposal is for the Assembly to be one and unique, because it is an intensity to be a manifestation of our national and national maturity and responsibility. The assembly will meet once a year and make strategic decisions that will be carried out operationally by the Diaspora Council for Serbs in the region and by all representatives of the executive government. One thing to be clear: there is no politics and day-to-day politics. The conditions and method of election of delegates will be agreed upon by diaspora organisations, as well as by Serb organisations in the region, and the country of origin will in no way interfere with the process and conditions of the election of delegates in the Assembly, which is clearly specified in the law and could see and read anyone who wanted to. The power of the assembly, among other things, gives the fact that the delegates of the diaspora and Serbs in the region will have the opportunity to address specific problems in direct contact with the entire state summit, including the president of the Republic. We do not want me, or the Ministry of Diaspora, or the Government of Serbia to interfere in any way in the process of electing delegates, or in the way our associations and organisations function, because I deeply believe that these times have gone on forever and are behind us. The Alliance for Relations with Serbs in the region is a reflection of the will and determination that, in accordance with international law, EU standards and policies to preserve good neighbourly relations, protects the interests and rights of Serbian people in areas where they traditionally live. The Council will be chaired by the President of the Republic of Serbia, and the prime minister and resolution ministers will also be involved in the work, making it clear how much we care for this issue. Due to the large number of exiled and exiled persons on the territory of Vojvodina, the Council member is among other things the president of the executive council of the AP Vojvodina. KIM representative is not in the Council because we would indirectly recognise Kosovo's independence, declaring the remaining Serbs in Cosmet to Serbs in the region. That's what this government, and neither I as a minister, will ever do. The Council will support Serbs in the region in achieving their civic, political, social, economic and cultural rights and, in particular, the rights to preserve national identity. The position of Serbs in the region is far from ideal. I would even consider it very difficult in many of the countries, but the positive circumstance is that all countries in the region are either on their way to becoming one, and that is guaranteed that the position of the Serbian people, with the additional support of the country of origin, will certainly be improved. Our strategic goal is to be an economic and political leader in the Western Balkans, and that includes being a leader in the development of good neighbourly relations and regional co-operation. That is why I am sure that this council, led by the President of the Republic, will contribute to the acceleration of Euro-integration processes throughout the region. In this law, as in any other which my team and I would ever postpone, the basic starting point is the first and irreplaceable goal - to facilitate and speed up the path towards the EU and all international integrations, because this is the only way to have an economically strong and politically influential state. It is our firm commitment to be a factor in regional stability and development, a modern and democratic state that respects international law, but also protects our national and national interests and, in doing so, has the most powerful countries of the world for its partners and allies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-10-09-0.u27431	Mr. Minister, I really thank you and your associates for the effort you've made both in preparing this matter and in participating here in the work. I'm finishing the initial search. We move on to a joint single search of the 10-15th agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COUNTRY OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT MEETING MEETING MEETING MEETING MEETING MEETING MEETING MEETING MEETING MEETING OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT AND OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURSE AND OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURSE OF THE COURSE OF THE COURSE OF THE COURE AND OF THE STATES OF THE COURSE OF THE COURE OF THE COURSE OF THE COURE AND OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURSE OF THE COURSE AND OF THE COURT OF THE COURSE OF THE COURT AND OF THE COURT AND OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURTH 15TH AND OF THE COURT AND OF THE COURTH AND OF COURT OF COURT AND OF THE COURT AND OF COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURS, ROURS, AND OF COURS, IND AND OF COURS OF COURN AND OF THE COURT OF COURN AND OF COURT, AND OF COURT, IND AND OF COURS, IES, IES, IND, IND, IND, IND. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, are five hours, and that is:Employment Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS Parliamentary Group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; Parliamentary group Forward Serbia - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; SPS-JS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds;Sends group of minorities - eight minutes and 24 seconds and PUPS - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament who are not members of any parliamentary group, have the right to speak once, up to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if you have not already done so, to report for a word, with a order of MPs. I would like to inform you that by these points of the agenda, the MPs will be: Aleksandar Martinović - SRS and Srdjan Spasojevic - New Serbia. According to Article 163(2), Article 142(2) shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to elect members of the Council of the Republic of Post Office, a list of candidates for members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, proposals for decisions to suspend judicial office, a proposal to elect an election member of the first members of the High Council of Lawyers, a proposal to elect an election member of the First Assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors from the Court of First Instance and a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. With the novice's representative gone, the government's first part of our work is Jasna Matic, and since she hasn't arrived at this point, although I have received information that she's on the move, we will continue working on Tuesday, October 13th at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. By applying the electronic voting system, it has been established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are working conditions. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. We will go from representatives of the smallest parliamentary groups to the largest, as we have done so far. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
