ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26977	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall and that more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic and Vlajko Senic. According to Article 88(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic has called for today's session to be attended by proposing representative Diana Dragutinovic, finance minister. We move to the 24th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Debt of the Republic of Serbia to ALPHA BANK SRBIA A.D., VOJVODANSKE BANK A.D. NEW USA AND PIRAUS BANK A.D. BELGRAD (single details) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Radovan Radovan Radovanović, Zoran Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabaković on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 142 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I remind the MPs that the time available for discussion in particular is the time of the parliamentary groups, the time of 15 minutes each president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, and two minutes at his disposal by each applicant of the amendment. On Article 1 of the amendment, MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Jorvanka Tabakovic submitted. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Radovan Radovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26978	I thank Mrs Diana Dragutinovic for adopting all three amendments tabled for the bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Alpha Bank, Vojvodjanska Banka and Pireus Banka. However, the two amendments concerning the precision of the purpose of the loan are simply, I can say, technical character and really contribute only to the precision of what the Government itself has written in an explanation and that this loan serves to finance the budget deficit, but also to refinance the debt. In that sense, I cannot take credit for the adoption of this amendment, and I certainly admit to you that you are correct in what you have written in the reasoning you have entered into the law. What the amendment to Article 3 was also adopted, where the costs of this loan, where it was not precisely determined that the interest rate, which is otherwise determined as the sum of one month of reference interest rates and fixed margins of 4.75, must be at that level of one month calculated and thus paid. This was to be specified by the amendment because credit repayment rates were established at a six-month level and such a precision was in fact avoided the possibility of banks to attribute a one-month account to the six-month basic interest account, so as not to unduly increase the costs of this loan, so that the amendment could also be considered a technical clarification in one part. I ask the chairman, Mrs Comić, that all those who do not find this interesting ask to enable us who are interested in having this discussion at peace and in full concentration, now the quorum is not needed, it does not need 84 of them to sit here, and there is plenty of room for the conversation in the other rooms of the Assembly. These 25 minutes I have on behalf of the parliamentary group, I would actually use it to ask the question again, not at that deaf time of the night when the transfer went delayed, and on this subject, how did we come into the situation that we owed 90m euros to cover the budget deficit in the first place? This is why we have the most direct or indirect situation that some call – the hot autumn came in the middle of the summer and the start and end of all strikes, the threats to them, the suspension of work or what will happen, essentially has a fundamental reason for the irresponsible spending of the financial resources that this government has had. I focus my discussion on two basic questions. Did this government control everything it had to put into public income and whether its borrowing was washed away? When I say hers, I will not only mean what the loans we grant in this house are, as a legislative right of the Assembly to approve the government of borrowings that are ratified here, but I will really have to touch the subject of that approved loan three plus one billion of the IMF, because part of it is already available, the eight hundred million, and for foreign exchange reserves. In one word, this government, all the time, when I say this government, I mean the government from 2001 to today, has held us in the wrong belief that we have foreign reserves in the amount that it has published in real numbers, but not in the structure of what these foreign reserves really were. I'm going to have to touch the privatisation story, or the privatisation funds that really got us into a situation where we didn't have to do it today. I'm going to ask the citizens if they can assess who Pinocchio was now and who had no idea about the economy. You know, Pinocchio is a symbol of a boy who lies and grows a wooden nose, and in this society, you can lie to his will and you'll never get a chance to be punished for it, even with a mockery. So if you make the right arguments to the economy, you're going to risk being called ignorant in the economy, someone who's being abused, and that's the least that can happen to you. Before the government was put together in public, there was much talk about whether the privatisation money was spent. That's what the governor claimed. He was wise to remain silent at the time of the election campaign at the time, and then those who were afraid of being able to put the government together to their extent, and their measure of their participation in the government, began to give him the right of the former finance minister, and then as someone who became prime minister, that there was no money from privatisation. If there was money in the privatisation accounts and they were preserved, we wouldn't need this 90m-euro debt in the country from business banks. One year ago, we asked only the real inflow that was recorded in 2007. Out of the total of three and a half billion euros of foreign direct investment, which you can literally read as a privatisation income, one and a half billion euros were received from the sale of Mobi 063, I deliberately say not from Mobtel but Mobi 063 and all of this transaction I brought to this speaker, and this is best remembered by Mr Dinkic and Mr Schlaf's private accounts. So 320m euros were received from Telekom Austria's license, 122m euros from the Pannonian Bank, 385m euros from the Vojvodina Bank, sales, and all these revenues were reported in 2007. And in addition to this figure, which I'm counting, 220m euros have come from the sale of the DDOR, and then the revenue from the Belgrade Stock Houses has come. The question arises where three and a half billion euros of foreign direct investment are from the sale of enterprises introduced into the country only at the end of 2007. Budget, Madam Minister, you know well both you and me, and all high school students who deal with the economy, that it concerns one calendar year and that it has current incomes and expenditures, and that countries that do not privatise privatisation revenues must be financed in a one-year period past these exceptional revenues. These exceptional revenues were supposed to keep us from what we are in today, because what we are in today is not the result of the global financial crisis, but the result of our completely autonomous crisis, which is called unreserved spending without accounting and thinking about the future, and this crisis has only brought down all the problems we normally have. I'm not surprised that you, in the light of this borrowing, have not given a single reason why our budget is in this crisis, except for the financial crisis. So, I know that the first job of the government is to defend and guard its position, but that defense must also be based on the data available to the public, the data that can be seen on your websites and from the official documentation that we get. The proceeds from privatisation were kept somewhere in some accounts, someone and somewhere were charged by some interest, and all I can say is that there is a specific treatment, not literally, but the treatment of state and your secrets, because we have no idea how and why this money was spent, except that we have a fundamental suspicion, which is not legally proven, that this money was spent for the purpose of holding elections. But not electoral actions, but for the purpose of obtaining the choice of those who received such privatisation to carry out, a very hearty privatisation law was made in 2001 under an international contract published in the number 8 of 2001, and it was called the World Bank's Trust Fund gift, where mechanisms were drawn, institutions that would carry out privatisation in this way. When I say it this way, I say that responsibility has been given to the State of the Privatisation Agency to agree, control, charge and spend the money on privatisation. I don't believe there's anyone in this country today, even outside of it, who's going to say that this was a good model. Bad privatisation is not a domain of theoretical debate, and poor and unsuccessful privatisation is not a problem for dispute and discussion in this home and scientific gatherings, but is a problem for people who have lost their jobs and who are today looking for their basic human first to work, treatment and decent life. The money's gone, the people are out of a job, and the solution is in a new borrowing. Why? Because a state that shouldn't have authorized itself for all the privatisation actions and that by setting up the Privatisation Agency, it only tried to hold it at the first moment, until the agency took it off budget financing. The state had to control and deal responsibly with these means, just as today cannot avoid responsibility for the people on the street because they lost their jobs by doing this. The state cannot allow what is the resources of this people and the state to sell someone else, not have control over those funds, and then come out here as the most irresponsible man who, whenever he lacks money, I need a new loan. The question is, where will this loan come from and what are we going to make new so we can get those loans back? So the first thing I'm putting on your mind, as authorities since 2001, to date, is the irresponsible spending of money from privatisation that was carried out in a bad model, which has not been found out yesterday both this summer and in light of the financial crisis. It's too long a list of affairs in which, not by abuse of privatisation, but by exactly how it's meant to be conducted, it's impossible. What is the next extremely controversial problem in the spending and irresponsible rule of government in terms of keeping these citizens' money? All the laws that have been passed since 2001, so to speak, should have meant better competition, meaning that jobs, that a man gets to work, that the company comes to work in the most visible way as competitive, the one that offers the lowest price for the best quality of work he will do. We tried this as a society, and the citizens gave you the right to do so through various agencies, various bodies, administrations that needed to curb corruption, prevent overlapping functions and abuse of public interest for personal purposes. The great expectations of all of us have also been since the adoption of the Public Procurement Act. The law envisioned one indirect control of the state through that authority in all matters where budgets are spent and significant purchases are made. If you didn't use any of that law as a government, you had to use the definition that under companies whose public procurement is required, must be constantly controlled, implies all companies in which the state is the founder, at least 50%, in which the state has over 50% of the management rights, in which the state has one gold action, and above all... I'm really asking my DS colleagues to let me speak. Mr. Konstantinovicu... (President: Members of the Parliament, please allow the MP to speak and follow Mrs Tabakovic. I understand that it was most interesting for Mr Konstantinovic to abolish the right to eat during the work of the MPs of this assembly, counting on the loss of motivation to work. I'm not one of those. My motivation to do this job is equally important without that compensation for a warm meal. I'd really like to ask you to intervene, and in the meantime, yes. (President: Please enable the working atmosphere. I understand that this topic is not at all pleasant for these 126 MPs of the ruling majority who support power, but the fundamental democratic right is to allow someone to speak, and at no time do I use arbitrary data, improvisation, but only with documents and figures that the government represents, supported by the ruling majority. If the Public Procurement Act should have allowed the maximum control of the spending of public funds through its definitions, then why are you now in the image of this Government, Mrs Dragutinovic, on request to deliver to me, as one of the many MPs here in the Assembly, on how much the salaries of those who receive enormously high wages from the budget have been answered as of May 27th? I'm sorry, just to remind you it's been 15 minutes. Will you use the MP's time? I said I was using the time of the parliamentary group, 25 minutes, and when I'm done with it, I'm gonna use the time of my authorised representative. On the question - how much are the salaries of all those who are financed from the budget, on 27 May the Ministry of Finance, as an MP for the SNS, received such notice: Acting on the request of the MP, the Ministry of Finance asked 36 public enterprises and related legal entities, now contributes to one two kilograms of material, established and then only one word, seemingly harmless, gets through, 100% by public enterprises. The question wasn't so formulated. The very definition that you have now given in the Budgetary System Act is what public funds are, which is the responsibility of all those who spend money from the budget, meant to provide an answer to the question -- how do we spend the funds transferred from the budget to various agencies, administrations, the authorities of the board of directors who still have today, I say, some of them and 500 thousand salaries, so I wonder -- what kind of work, what merits they do at the time when you are granting us a 90m-euro mandate for the budget deficit, those who either have budget funding or work, earn from the powers that the state has given them. Again, overpassing is not an art of flight control, neither in the Agency nor in that Civil Aviation Directorate, which you have even allowed to register as limited liability shareholders. If you had controlled a part of the company that forms a state directly or indirectly through its public enterprises, through its subsidiaries in the image of the republican authorities, in the image of the authorities and authorities at lower levels, you would not need to come out today with a 90m-euro mandate. What's most controversial is that the noise in which you don't want our voice to be heard, the fear in which you want to close the paper, I don't defend those who call names people, I don't defend those who expose minors to the mockery, I don't defend a word too strong, but I defend the right to call the government to spend money and that it can't only be done by judicial solutions. We can't until the court condemns you to say that you're being held irresponsiblely. In such a climate, when it comes to closing the media, when you do not allow through total business restrictions to speak of these things, even the MPs' institute to dissuade in a way that you answer that it is only for companies that, there are 36, founded directly, etc. Did you have, I ask my colleagues from the ruling majority, just 36 companies on the list when you negotiated quotas for participation in the exercise of power? No, much more. That's not what I'm arguing about. One who gets the right to exercise power in the elections, one who has a variety of powers, but I will never justify spending on budget funds, so that you can make a coalition, and that will one day be subject to review, means it's not an art, it's an abuse of state resources to come to some coalition, by making a promise to someone, to give someone rights that you don't give to others, whether it's some president of the municipality, whether it's a coalition, whether it's some interesting leases that the next government will check, but it's not the ability to form a coalition, it's not a coalition capacity, and on such grounds, nobody should boast that they've got the right to exercise power. Once you get it and you get the right to run public enterprises, you have minimum responsibility for what's called - spending budget money and spending public funds. First, try to clean up every corner of this state house from the extra administration, from the waste of money, where individuals, I say individuals, with the muzzling of the parties, are convulsing of enormous wealth, separating themselves into some special elite and class, which and what few effects you have as good, blur, belittle, and not even that few citizens will recognize you. Why is it inadmissible that when you get power, you decide to spend state money you don't allow what's called, criticism and apportionment to real problems. If you had listened, if you had wanted to hear, if you hadn't called us ignorants, you'd have realized another year ago that the false story about the purchasing power of the citizens is dangerous and that it would have come back to us, that the false story of the stable foreign reserve held by the National Bank, at the time it stood between 11 and 13 billion euros. That's the story I'm saying, and who's Pinocchio today and who doesn't know the economy. At that time, when the governor, for me an inseparable part of the government and the ruling majority, no matter how much he sheltered himself with some special independence that was allowed him by law, told us that we had high foreign reserves, we warned that these foreign reserves only serve as an anti-estesis story for further borrowing and citizens and states. Many, and this time I'm going to remind them of that time, they say they're stable foreign reserves, that we're not in a position to have a debt problem, etc. And then and now I repeat, thanks to the poor policy of mandatory reserves led by Mr. Jelasic, there were 40% of the funds in the foreign reserves from what foreign banks had to deposit with the governor in the state register only during the duration of the loans. You assured citizens that these were our stable foreign reserves, of which 70% were foreign reserves that this state could not operate on, because they were neither permanent nor stable and depended on bank credit activities, only 2.5 billion. This isn't panic, this is a reminder of the time you had to worry about. All 2.5 billion euros were government deposits and the real and permanent foreign reserve money. Experts who could talk about it were silent, because it's lucrative and useful. The opposition, that's what I've been talking about, many journalists shyly and what's going on? You're dating us with a eloquent story about a loan from the IMF, and to maintain foreign reserves now. Mrs Dragutinović, is it enough time for your associates to show you how many of the public funds, state-owned enterprises, what are called deposit accounts of this government, to be served in business banks, while asking you for money from the budget, while giving business banks the money they traded with securities of value with the Treasury and the National Bank? Do you think the citizens really can't add up two and two and see what their money is doing? In this tone and way, I don't invite citizens to run monetary policy and come before the government, I call on them to assess your responsibility for managing money and to realize that money was there, that there is money today, but that you don't want to manage it so that this improvement is felt by citizens. So, the loss of the National Bank of 2006 due to a poor monetary policy that created surpluses of money, and then withdrew from expensive operations, in a practical life it looks like this. The business bank gets from a state body or a 100m-euro fund, when it collects them nicely, both at the cutting of course and what the National Bank was giving, at one point interest was going on 7-8% of inflation, these money was being bought by securities of value, made a safe difference, didn't give credit to citizens, didn't give credit to businesses, just a little bit so they wouldn't be problematic. What learned from that, except for the loss of the National Bank, which amounted to 375m euros at the time, and don't tell me the exchange rate is a political product. In the following year, the loss amounted to 150m euros and you instead of preventing that practice, at the moment of the global financial crisis, you started to apply this practice to the real sector as well. You offered 3 percent interest companies, you touched the banks, and then you said organize the production. They told you, I certainly know that, those businessmen who had the honour of saying - and what I would do if I were to produce something with the loan you gave me, at the cost of 3 to 5%, go and buy either your paper or give a deposit to your banks that you allowed liquidity to me with two signatures, with two virtual orders, without production, allow me to earn the difference that ranged from 5 to 10% per transaction. The state had to know this and see what the effects of its policies were. Do you know what my problem is? You and those businessmen who don't want to work, but who will allow citizens to get a job, where companies will do it, to receive salaries, to pay contributions, on the basis of which they will finance pensions and health care funds and everything that means providing basic conditions for the functioning of this country. I can't figure out that you didn't have that long-term perspective when you let the fancy finance, which is what it's called today, some modern banking deals with half of this economy that has money. Instead of controlling instruments, it is not censorship in the press, these are the usual early warning systems for the functioning of the banking system and the control of the dedicated spending of loans, the money goes into production and that you really show that this country's goal is employment and citizens that will enable the economic development of this country. Why didn't you do it? One of these friends of mine says that this government should be banned from using futur as future time, to say - I will, we will, because from 2000 to today, they have had enough time to show that, and since they haven't, it's forbidden to promise that you will, but why you didn't. That's what I'm asking. Why didn't you? Today you are a personified representative of the government with the same bad monetary policy, production neglect, non-financialisation of production and destruction of everything called the sound foundation of the banking sector, traditional banking, where loans will be given as much as deposits are collected. It's traditional banking. That's why I mentioned that night in the late hours as an educational experience in Brazil, where the state takes care of it, but by doing so through domestic banks. You've brought us into absurdity that we're taking credit from commercial cost-covering banks today, not that we can't approve, but that the costs that we really wouldn't be willing to bear are no German states, not in crisis, but in the best days, because they're the closest to us in this space. I'm really surprised you didn't find it, like you found regulations for subsidizing and various other kinds of help, so you made it impossible for us to talk about it the way we're talking today. The matter has reached the most serious proportions, and for the first time in my political performance, I used the word "panic", and it really caught me as a man of panic when I saw the government coming out with a request for the approval of a 90m-euro commercial bank loan. The loan will have to return from the budget, which has the same expenditure, and revenues are getting smaller and smaller. What I'm going to conclude is the story that a loan with the International Monetary Fund is someone else's concern -- it can't survive, not at this point, but with people who have an elementary logic. The IMF's credit is also too difficult, according to the limits it carries in terms of the obligations that we need to carry out, that is, to implement an economic policy that will be directed, not created here. Pointed, I don't say loaded, but directed, and no one comes to help you in your own interest, but in your own. These are ancient premises. You and I learned from some books that made it clear. So we'll get a loan in a mood that's not free, which isn't free, which isn't a gift. He is the money in a non-superficies, which will keep foreign reserves for which we gave a false painting to the citizens and to those who were in charge. But any country that forgets that the foundation of democracy -- the sovereign power of national currency and money management -- is indeed going to face the rule of the state by the one who has power over the money, and this government is not. I'm not even going to say you're so clever that you're just making an illusion that you're not in control of the money. Once again, I will mention Rothschild, who said: give me power over money and control over it, and I don't care who makes the law in one country. That's why I've been talking about it this way, and that's why I've been talking about it for so long. Don't let the IMF credit be somewhere on the National Bank site, which plays independence from these citizens, from this economic policy and from this state, because the costs of these loans and that loan, to the extent that they are used from this budget, will be paid because you don't have any other cash, you don't have other citizens, you don't have another parliament -- that's this. Here we have to ask ourselves, to assess the weight of these borrowings, and to warn you by saving the public that this is no way to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26979	The entire time has been used at the disposal of the Progressive Serb parliamentary group. From the time available as authorised representatives of the parliamentary group six minutes and 10 seconds. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26980	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'm going to express a misunderstanding about the principle of debate. I am sorry that Mrs Dragutinovic did not respond to our arguments about the sovereignisation of the debt and about a certain danger, so I would call it, which is being placed before the Serbian state, the Serbian economy. I will remind you once again, on these amendments, on the principle of discussion and on these three contracts, which will assign the Republic of Serbia an additional 300m euros, to the following facts. In 1983 in the same hall, during the meeting of the Federal Assembly of the SFRY, at the night session, it tells you how important this session was and unusuality, a decision was made to accept the IMF's terms, and the IMF was supposed to be some kind of neutral negotiator between the SFRY and foreign creditors from the West - that the SFRY agreed to a sovereign debt analysis. If I'm not mistaken, then the public debt of the SFRY was about $4 billion. Of course, Mrs Dragutinovic will probably say, and we agree, that the dollar was much less than inflation now. However, we remind again of our arguments, that there is still a big difference between the number of inhabitants of the great Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we point to the context of these events. On the other hand, so-called The private SFRJ debt was about $14 billion, if I'm not mistaken, and the total debt was about $18 billion. It is precisely because of the IMF, which is so glorified in our public, and except for the SRS that no one dares criticises, but criticises some peripheral phenomena in terms of people working on certain jobs. They are important, but do not determine the very macroeconomic policy of the Republic of Serbia. It was this IMF that forced the SFRY to accept the sovereignization of the debt. What would that mean in our particular case? In our case, it would mean that the Republic of Serbia will owe 30 billion dollars in 2008 or 21 billion euros if the private and public debt is combined. We responsibly claim that this will happen. We do not approach these economic problems for ideological reasons, not with any scarcity or hatred towards the West or the IMF, but from one simple assumption – simply the IMF comes from the interests of the creditors. Trustees' interests are to charge the debtor as much interest as possible. In that sense, and in terms of discussion of previous speakers, I would like to point out one more thing. We can criticise peripheral phenomena, but the very definition of some kind of economic programme must be next. Do you advocate further borrowing of the Republic of Serbia? We believe that the Republic of Serbia should no longer be in debt, and we have people like Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, who claims to be in debt with the EU and simply has no alternative. It's from an economic point of view, least said, pointless, because exactly the IMF, so-called. The European banks of the World Bank, we responsibly argue, are related institutions. We'll give you another example. The deputy president of the IMF Executive Board, Mr Portugal, told our daily newspaper -- that Serbia, allegedly, is at the moment when the crisis is at its peak, is due to carry out reforms in health, education and other socially sensitive areas. Imagine now – that's what the IMF is looking for. In that sense, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of regional development and the economy has recognised, as an economist, and we have nothing against that statement – that the IMF has just destroyed the economy of Latvia, because it has asked for wages to go down by 20% to 30%, leading to a fall in GDP by 18%. So it's not our statement, it's a statement from the government. In this sense, it is clear what the IMF requires of one state – the destruction of social areas, pensions, health care, education. Of course, there are other related institutions in order for this process to be amortised in some way. One of them is the World Bank. You have a contract with the World Bank, which we are considering today and which we have discussed in the principle debate, of about 10 million euros, if I am not mistaken, where exactly these funds refer to health care, which is very threatened precisely by the IMF's conditions. You know, Mrs Dragutinovic, it is impossible to conclude a contract with the World Bank if you do not have a contract with the IMF – so these are two related institutions. Similarly, it can be said of the so-called. European banks. And I'm going to give you a concrete example that completely knocks down this Mr. Vukic's thesis, which is next. It is so glorified and so controversial for some, and for us it is clear what this contract brings for Serbia, a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You certainly know that in Article 117 of that Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it is conditioned to so-called European aid, I would call it Brussels aid, because I do not believe that Europe and the European Union are the same, conditioned by co-operation with the IMF. So that's more than clear. If you read Article 117, you will understand that you cannot cooperate with the so-called "partial". European banks, without accepting the IMF's terms. If economic science is, of course, not to quote Stilts, but it is more than clear, and other Nobels, but if economic science, even in the government, there is one opinion that the IMF is harmful and that you co-operate with the IMF because you "must", then it is clear – that it is harmful and co-operation with European banks, so on. European banks. In this regard, we are, of course, opposed to this continued borrowing agreement with the European Investment Bank of 250m euros, because we also consider it a legal and economic point – that it is a very, very harmful contract for the Republic of Serbia. If you remember, we have noted that you have some provisions there that are, to say the least, from the legal point of view of the dispute and show that the two sides in the contract are not equal. You have seen that the European Bank is asking literally for the lowest level, meaning for officials in the NBS, both in your Ministry and in the Government, to report any irregularities that may occur in the application of that contract by the European Investment Bank. In that sense, we don't mind. It's kind of a fight against corruption. But why wasn't that request bilateral? Why the European Investment Bank officials, more than involved in these projects of the European Investment Bank, do not report corruption in the bodies of the so-called so-called ‘European Investment Bank’. European banks. However, this is not happening and there is a false assumption that there is no corruption in the EU in Brussels. I assure you, there may be more corruption there than here. I remind you that the European Commission resigned in 1999 precisely because of corruption. I'll remind you, you certainly know that as a doctor of economic science, this crisis has just been caused by corruption in banks, corruption that is so great that it's no longer possible to trust the accounting reports and the revisions carried out in America. You've known for a few years what's been going on with their big firms. In that sense, we claim at the very least that corruption is at the same level in the European Investment Bank as in your Ministry, as in the NBS. On the other hand, the previous speaker spoke about the Republic of Serbia's foreign reserves. We carefully studied the NBS 2008 reports, where we saw data on foreign exchange reserves. Unlike the external debt that has grown, which is growing, foreign reserves are dropping. In that sense, we've seen that somewhere, if I'm not mistaken, 80% of our foreign exchange reserves are in securities of value. These securities of value are mostly placed in the west. On the other hand, we also have foreign exchange accounts back in the West. So, that huge sum, if I'm not mistaken, is 8 billion euros in the west. Now the real issue about our foreign reserves, I'm going to express myself a little more freely, is the larger amount of money coming from the West for foreign reserves or is the larger amount of money going towards the foreign debt towards the West, in terms of both public and private debt, in terms of the story of sovereignisation of the debt, which is going to hit us sooner or later? According to NBS data, revenues from securities, foreign exchange accounts, are around 316m euros annually for 2008. At the same time, the average interest on the external debt of the Republic of Serbia and on the private debt is about 5%, if I am not mistaken, according to the report. So, on the basis of the 2008 interest alone, it was due to pay one billion euros, therefore, on the basis of interest alone. On the other hand, the report also said that two billion and 300m euros were paid on the basis of the principal in 2008, adding to this amount and interest, so it is a figure of over 3 billion euros. On the other hand, you have 300 million that we get from foreign reserves and we have 3 billion going west based on external debt. I think it is more than clear that the West is using us, that the Western creditors are using us and precisely these European investment banks, the World Bank, the IMF are making money in the Republic of Serbia, as one poor country which is one debtor in the World Bank, the IMF, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In that sense, it's about projects. You certainly know that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has asked our authorities, conditioned that the bridge near Beška, in fact building a bridge at Beška and reconstructing that Austrian company. Why? There's no explanation, if it's known that the Bridge has built that bridge, if I'm not mistaken, for seventy-seven years. So, all these allegedly well-intentioned loans, all the aid actually conditioned, is conditioned by Western banks and Western firms that have the highest benefits of these contracts. Also, in this contract with the European Investment Bank, you will see that there is a so-called middleman. The treaty's formulation says the intermediary is a bank or financial organisation operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, because of the policy in the previous period, we have come to the situation that around 75 or 80% of the financial banking market in the Republic of Serbia belongs to Western banks. So you have a classic monopoly at work. You have an Austrian bank monopoly of about 30%, if I'm not mistaken. In that sense, it is clear that this so-called. the European Investment Bank's assistance is just to be allocated to Western banks. Eight years blocking Russian investment, eight years blocking the arrival of a Russian bank. Now the Moscow Bank has reportedly arrived, but compared to these 75%, that's more than a little. In that sense, we welcome your efforts to conclude with the Russian Federation a one-billion-euro loan agreement. We also remind you that serious economic policy would already be preparing, and it would not come to a state of need, as you have come, at the height of the crisis to ask the Russian Federation for exactly one billion euros. In this respect, a serious analysis was needed to be carried out, which would be neutral from an economic point of view, and would not be covered by some ideological phrases about the EU as a new paradise on this continent. A concrete example that shows the inconclusive nature of these negotiations is the following. You certainly know that in April 2009, your colleague Mr. Kudrin made a statement to a Russian newspaper, transferred by the Western media, that Russia would invest 10 billion in IMF securities. So, because of citizens to say quite frankly, Russia invests money, gives money to the IMF, and we take money from the IMF. So there's no logic to such actions. In that sense, we suggest the following thing, so our criticism is constructive, you have a monopoliest, the Delta Company, not you personally, but we have here in the Republic of Serbia, primarily the government that earns, repronounces Mrs. Forcan, somewhere over three billion euros. A similar income will be in this year. So you have a company that generates a turnover of 40% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Bring the law, bring tax laws and tax the company that, after its owner's recognition, pays about 200m euros in taxes. These are concrete things. We can now talk about Brazil, we can talk as Mr. Vukic about the EU as a solution to all our problems, but these are concrete things. Tax "Delta", talk to the Russians seriously and keep in mind that the IMF is not a well-intentioned trustee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26981	Fourteen minutes and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Milos Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26982	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, today we have a debate on the details of the loan, i.e. the law on borrowing at the Alpha Bank of 30m euros, of the Vojvodjanska Banka, a.d. Novi Sad of 20m euros and of the Piraeus Bank of 30m euros. In addition to these loans, which we discussed on the day we had a debate on the principle, that is some amount of 360m and 500m euros. Please, if I could have a little order. Interestingly, Madam Minister and Madam Chairman, the debate on such very important laws coincided practically with the start date of the Tur de France cycling race and lasted practically until Sunday, i.e. a large part of the debate was just at the time of the Tur de France cycling race. That's why the citizens were disabled, because you keep creating media darkness, to find out what we're talking about here. Obviously it was more important to you to trick the Tour de France, the Contador won, the Schleh is the second, Lance Armstrong is the third. I hope you in the government celebrated Contador's victory. Honestly, I expect that, in order to popularise cycling and Tur de France, you government members, as director of the Public Service, have also bought bicycles. What is interesting, you, as my fellow MP Velimir Ilic said here, used that time to keep the citizens constantly watching the cyclists turn their bikes five hours a day to distract the citizens of Serbia from the problems that plague this country and from those things that show the inability of this government. Mrs Dragutinović, let's turn to real life and those problems that bother all citizens. Again, we discussed the package and arrangements, loans, worth 360m and 500m euros. In this month alone, I will repeat, the state owed 968m euros. We can assume now what the debt of the state is. In the final statement, Mrs Dragutinovic, you criticised us, the MPs' group and MPs from the DSS, pointing to the tone and way of holding the debate, reminding among other things that the current situation and the result of poor policymaking during the government of Vojislav Kostunica and that the government of Vojislav Kostunica has affected excessive spending. For the sake of citizens, and not for your sake, I will remind you that this government of Vojislav Kostunica left 10.2 billion euros in foreign reserves to this country, that it has properly serviced its obligations to the London and Paris Club and that before time it has returned loans to the IMF, and that it has passed a series of laws that have created an ambience to rush, so to say, to foreign investors, so we are only in one year, which is a noun for you and you will never be able to achieve, there have been direct foreign investments of 6.4 billion dollars. I will also remind you that Minister Mirko Cvetkovic was also in the government at one time, and that is exactly the finance minister. However, what is wrong with the fact that the minister, or Prime Minister, Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, was a poor student and had practically learned nothing from the former prime minister, the former prime minister, because as he taught and what knowledge he has is showing just the results of the government's work. As for criticism of the work of this government by DSS MPs, I will remind you first of all that the budget was delayed against the law (you know that we were supposed to get the previous budget on November 1st, and we only got it on December 1st, that we adopted it in late December 2008), the unrealistic projection of GDP growth, and in October when you planned GDP growth of 6%, we said it was unrealistic, and in December when you planned GDP growth of 3%, we said it was unrealistic, in April when you planned the same GDP growth as it was in the previous 2008 we said it was unrealistic. Now, Madam Minister, you're assessing yourself, and you're not able to tell us how realistic it is, you say -- there's going to be a GDP drop of 3.5 to 5%. I personally think it's going to be bigger, it's going to show time, I'll see you here, I guess, in September, because I don't think we'll be able to see each other after September, because I don't think you'll be in that position, and I'll explain why. We have pointed to a large budget deficit that is due to excessive consumption and that the budget is not developmental but consumption. The analysis showed that consumption this year, budget consumption was achieved with 100% and that simultaneously execution in investments, i.e. capital investments, is 20%. This was already discussed by counterpart Rade Obradovic asking the government a parliamentary question, which he did not get an answer to today. We've been pointing to a major outflow of foreign exchange reserves, which has also been reflected in the growth rate, from 75 to 95. We asked and repeat that question -- if the foreign reserves were 10.2 billion, if you withdrew 788 million from the IMF, if you have direct investments, or revenues from the 740 million privatisation, what about the foreign reserves that are now 8.9 billion? Where did 2.8 billion go? Who spent it? That's the question we're going to keep repeating until we get an answer from you, be sure, both of you and the governor. We've been warning about the decline in production, now 18% of the drop in production, exports 24%, imports 27%, recession, internal indifference, increase in unemployment. We asked you what happened to the new 200,000 jobs. Now 200,000 people don't get paid because their companies are in a blockade. Sixty thousand people are out of work. Every day, we have 5,000 people strike on the streets, both in the capital and in the cities of Serbia. Fifty companies, according to the information we received last night from the Public Service, are on strike every day. Madam Minister, we have proposed solutions to you. I'll remind you of the Public Debt Act, I'll remind you of the Deposit Insurance Act of 20,000 euros, and you know how your secretary of state answered, and I wonder why he's still a Secretary of State, because I'll read only part of the text in a daily paper that today interpreted what you actually wanted to say with an increase in the income tax rate. He said -- at the press conference, the minister cited two steps as an illustration, and not as the rates to be, he specified Ilic and reminded that she cited the rates of 10 and 20%, and that she could also indicate it, because it was both underestimating, and detestable, and ugly by the secretary of state, because she could specify both rates of 30% and 80%. That's what the minister thinks and speaks in the context of what you're talking about. Politics is as successful as it gives citizens, i.e. it is measured by the conditions of their lives, whether they live better or worse. This government hasn't improved. The governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mr Jelasic, said by assessing the government and Prime Minister Cvetkovic's work that the government is not ready to deal with problems, and told Prime Minister Cvetkovic that he has no courage and that he is leading the government in a political way. Let me ask you, Mrs Dragutinovic, what is the budget deficit in six months? Is it 45 billion, as you keep saying, or 52.9 billion? Why would I ask that? If the revenues are 295.62 billion and the expenditures are 360 billion, they'll rather be this second, even though you keep repeating 45 billion. Madam Minister, the Budgetary System Act has been passed without a public debate. The Commissioner for Information of the Public Meaning of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Rodoljub Sabic, also warned you about this. The professional public warns you not to be in debt this much, that loans are not favourable, that they are not a gift, although you continue to be in debt lightly, so essentially you treat loans as a gift and it takes a miracle to get them back. Credits can only be returned by increasing production and exports. I remind you that spending in the budget is 100% and capital investments are only 20%. Those are the problems, Mrs Dragutinovic. What worries us is that you have no strategy to launch the economy and its recovery. You're trying to hold onto a straw, not taking care of the way and the consequences. This latest story of lobbyists and two and a half million dollars from the US budget reserves shows how you treat taxpayers' funds, or Serbian citizens. Another interesting thing is that Mr. Shaper, an adviser to the Prime Minister, is a member of the Democratic Party's presidency, and that Mrs. Tamara Stojcevic has signed contracts, and we do not know by whose authority. You've been broadcasting state records of 68 billion dinars with interest from 13% to 14%. It's a monthly interest of 700 to 800 million dinars. If we take these credits, we get more than 80 billion dinar figures. So you're in charge of more than the law allows, because you can borrow as much as the budget deficit, and the budget deficit is 70 billion. That's the question. You've got a new auction. In the end, decide what you're going to do. It is best for the citizens of Serbia and Serbia that you and the whole government resign as soon as possible and leave. Otherwise, you will leave the wasteland, Mrs Dragutinovic. Harry Potter won't be able to help you either. He won't be able to make it here, even though he's been driving to Tur de France for 12 days, he won't be able to help you here. He won't be able to help solve these problems. You know why? Because neither Boris Tadic nor those who have put together this government, when I say those who have put together, I mean monopolies, are interested in citizens' problems and in solving citizens' problems. First of all, they're interested in personal interest and just profit. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26983	The used time is 16 minutes and 15 seconds. Did you use the MP's group's time for a total amount of 16 minutes and 15 seconds? (Milos Radulovic: As an authorised representative. ) You then used time as an authorised representative and another minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group, which is available to the parliamentary group. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26984	Before I give conclusions on this law, which I only consider a topic today, because those two international agreements are not an issue today, I'm just going to take the opportunity to warn that my request and coming to the table of chair to ask if you've been counting on me those six minutes of time that I have for the three amendments and the answer that I have received that I have no right to comment on. So, I'm not asking for those extra six minutes, because I am in a position (President: National MPs... ..... I speak within my time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26985	People's MPs, if you're making remarks saying that you've been denied any of the rights you have under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, then I'm bound by Article 27 to answer you. The amendments you've made... I ask the People's Messengers not to earn. The amendments you have made, the two amendments have already been read during the session, and after the debate was opened in particular, are amendments both adopted by the Government and the Finance Committee and have become an integral part of the bill's proposal. An amendment that becomes an integral part of the bill cannot be the subject of discussion in particular. Hypothetically, if, I suppose, for the pleasure of the opposition's MPs in particular, 100 amendments were submitted and all amendments would be accepted by the parent committees, the Legislative Committee and the Proposer, no one would have the right to debate in particular, i.e. for two minutes as the applicant of the amendment. That's what I told you when you came to the table to look for a word in the debate, or two minutes after the amendment was filed, and I assumed we understood each other. Your insistence that I take away your right to me is a clear message that I must refer you to the members of the Rules of Procedure which define what the amendment is, and what is the amendment that has become an integral part of the bill. Your six minutes and ten seconds as an authorised representative of the Progress Group, Serbia, are at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26986	That's exactly what I'm using my time for, Mrs. Komic, I don't need the President of the Assembly to protect me, nor for you to interpret the Rules of Procedure, because it's just not right. I use my MP's time to tell you, I'm not a lawyer, but I do distinguish the spirit of the law from the letter of the law. The meaning of the interpretation of the adopted amendment, which was a practice, which I won't waste any time trying to find you a stenogram and prove that you personally gave the word to someone to explain, is in the next. The debate in principle is so brief that none of us is able to discuss the details of each amendment in detail that he wants to explain to his citizens what the amendment was adopted by the government. There are countless examples of my colleagues and colleagues who have also received word. Did any amendments go through or not, the first time I was able to hear a word from your party colleagues, I answered. I have plenty of time to state my position, but I'm warning you, Article 143. The Rules of Procedure of Rule 4 says, each applicant of the amendment has first to explain the two-minute amendment, not making a difference whether it is adopted or not. Please don't let me finish. Article 149 shows that the legislator, the committee responsible, etc. They are obliged to consider amendments and to inform the National Assembly by the beginning of the session for which the amendments propose that the National Assembly adopt them or reject them. I'm not going to comment with you at all. Do you respect this Rules of Procedure in terms of the presence of an authorised promoter or do you feel that it is enough to be in the building, but not in the O.R., and whether it is written somewhere, except in your scenario, that you give the word for the adopted amendment or not. I am literally asking you not to give me any further reasons, because your private and yourself given the right to interpret the Rules of Procedure is something that is acceptable within the presidency, and I will no longer allow you to do so. Within the remaining four minutes, I will state the position, the final one, for the adoption of this law. In the government's irresponsibility, in the way she spent the money on privatisation, how she allowed the governor to run monetary policy, how she didn't control all the public revenues she normally had, because she got a warrant from the citizens, and by taking an oath when she took office, I have to add to that list of violations of the law and bilateral interpretation of the funds control of the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development's Ministry's website, where in calling on people to get loans, now these incentives, it says that the minimum amount of the loan is 500,000, the interest rate is 1% on an annual basis, the repayment period of up to three to five years and the credit returns in dinars every three months, and the war is tied to the euro per medium rate on the day of maturity, and the credit returns in dinars. When you open a competition with the link that offers this call, you will come up with the following explanation – the credit returns every three months in dinars, as it says in the call, but says – the war is tied to the euro at the middle rate on the day of maturity, and the currency clause implies determining the return of debts in euros and the day itself of the exchange of loans in exchange and recalculating the debt into the medium rate on the day of maturity, which, now, is crucial, cannot be less than the nominal amount of the released credit. So this country treats entrepreneurs to whom it offers these loans, promising that they are easy, in dinars, not to wear a currency clause and actually do not explain what a real effective interest is. Too much budget for the Serbian economy, too much debt for the power of this economy. Debts can sometimes be solutions, but they're in a situation where we're more of a problem than a solution, because we're not in charge of investment, but because we're in charge of consumption, in whose structure we're not scratched enough, not that we haven't used all the reserves, but we haven't removed all those who can't stand on the back of the people. We've had foreign direct investment, that's what we call it, and most of it is company sales. I'm talking about attracting foreign investment, and we're not actually attracting productive investment, and what's best said about the reputation of the state is the price at which this loan is obtained from business banks, where the access fee is 1%, and when you take loans abroad, it's a quarter of that price. This loan cannot be supported and is the best proof of the government's quality of work and therefore we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26987	National MP Zoran Babic has been reported in the electronic system. You don't have time. By accident? I'm sorry, I have to read. National MP Dejan Mirovic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26988	In this final discussion, we will set out several more arguments against the further borrowing of the RS and our entire society and country, since we have stated that this will happen irrevocably when debt is sovereignised as in 1983 and one of these arguments is the growth of external debt in 10 new EU members. Now I will tell you, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, what it looked like in 10.6.2007 for these 10 EU countries, and you can conclude from that that should not be further in debt, but that an economic policy based on a real assessment of the situation rather than on some ideological phrases should be reached. In that sense, I will tell you that in 10.6.2007, Hungary, which can be compared to the Republic of Serbia by the number of inhabitants, even in some past, had a 142 billion-euro debt. You see what the debt is and you will immediately come to the conclusion, when you compare interest on that debt, when you compare the principal's payment, why there was an economic collapse in Hungary. In this regard, it can be concluded that Hungary's citizens are fully expected to have more than 50%, 60% are against EU membership and believe that EU membership is harmful to Hungary. We need to learn from the experiences of our neighbors. These three loans, of 250, 90 and 10m euros, point to another fact. In the principle debate, we asked a question – on what basis is the bank selected to borrow, which retroactively increased the margins on already given loans? On what basis are the banks that are obviously acting on our market rewarded, so to speak, like the Bank of Interested Banks? There's no excuse for that. We've seen the NB report for 2008 and it says that the NBS, which is otherwise an agent in the contract with the European Investment Bank, you're a borrower, the bank is a lender, that it affected these banks that use our citizens by making recommendations not to do so anymore. That's not how a serious country works. The serious state would face these problems, and we believe that the SRS, unlike some quasi-positional parties, has the kind and will to do so, and in this particular case, in addition to the taxation of Delta, besides taking loans from the Russian Federation, as we have said, which gives the IMF loans, and you take from the IMF, would do one more thing – would pass a law that would further tax those foreign banks, monopolies that use that monopoly position on our market. In that sense, additional resources would be found, but not in terms of further borrowing. I can remind you that foreign banks earned over 400m euros in 2008. It's an amazing data, as GDP falls, while essentially the pay cuts, because when it compares the freeze of wages with inflation, it's actually a decline of about 10%, because the NBS was planning 10% inflation, if I'm not mistaken, and if the IMF is pushing us to such unpopular measures, such as VAT, and that's obvious, then we need to find additional sources of income, and not spin around in one vicious circle, I have to say, and say that I am a little more free to express myself because of our citizens, where the IMF is a bad cop who destroys our health care, destroys our education, our country, and on the other hand you have a World Bank that's a good cop, the European Investment Bank, who allegedly gives us credit for these areas. You have the very essence of the terms of the arrangement with the IMF which opens up further space for further borrowing with the World Bank, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. It is also unknown that, after the conclusion of the IMF Agreement, a meeting was held in Vienna, it is public information, it was also presented by the Deputy Prime Minister, with Western banks operating in RS territory, and that the meeting concluded that the condition for further "co-operation" was the conclusion of the contract with the IMF. There's no doubt that all these Western creditors seem to be in sync. We therefore advise and ask you, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to consider rejecting these, I am deeply convinced, harmful terms of credit, which owe Serbia 350m euros and to find strength, political and economic, to find these funds on the other side. We argue, since the gross domestic product of the Republic of Serbia was around 30 billion euros in 2007, that there are also funds in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'll give you an example of the US Steel combination. You know that the US "Steel" is the largest exporter, the so-called largest Serbian exporter, is actually a US-owned company. The percentage is about 13%, if I'm not mistaken, and that's about a billion euros in our exports. That's terrible. That's what you need to tax, that, foreign banks, Delta, Sartid, that. U.S. "Steel." Look, the same US "Steel" that came here under such favourable conditions, this is a mild word, with favourable conditions, favouring its factory in Slovakia for the damage of the factory in Serbia. You have to stand up to them in one reasoned way. No one here talks about isolation or new conflicts with the West, but what's happening now is another extreme. There are two power centers that are dominant -- Delta Company, a party bank. This takes one serious state, if it thinks it should continue with one policy that should benefit Serbian citizens from having in mind. I know you have problems, that there have been forces that are ready to go further from the authorities in the West's concessions, it is clear what forces they are, however, it is already a political problem. This is about the economy, what is inevitable, and it is inevitable that it will happen again in 1983, that there will be a sovereignisation of debt and I know that there are many economic experts in the government, I do not underestimate their knowledge, I know that you taught at the Faculty of Economics, neither Mr Dinkic nor Mr Cvetkovic's knowledge. You know, if Milka Planintz, who, you'll admit, didn't have any economic knowledge, fell into the IMF trap, you shouldn't do that. You don't need to repeat that, because if anything brought down the economic system in the former Yugoslavia, which it had, I'll remind you, a huge inflow of gastars, a huge inflow of tourism, that's exactly the conditions of the IMF, because the IMF appeared as an alleged neutral negotiator over the external debt of the SFRY. Then came nationalism, after the separatism of Croatian and Slovenian, etc. In this respect, any crisis requires economic instability. Of course, when you have that in mind, it wasn't that far. You know for sure, as a doctor of economic science, what happened in Poland in the early '80s. You don't think a Lech Valens or a pope managed to bring down the Polish economic system? The IMF knocked him down -- groceries, food, milk, everything had a huge leap after the start of the debt crisis in 1980 and some years. That's for sure. The only ones who managed to resuscitate the crisis in some way were the Russians because they gave Poland at the purchase price of oil. This is the cause of the crisis in Poland, and then all the political moments I talked about come. In this regard, this experience should be taken into account, in particular the SFRY experience. The real situation should be taken into account, and the price of oil will rise. You know it's at 67% somewhere, and you'll be able to take more favourable loans, if there's already been such a critical situation, than the Russian Federation. Tax foreign banks, tax Delta, go to a trustee who will give you better conditions, and in that sense you have a chance to do something for this people and for this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26989	Ten minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26990	I think one amendment is just a reason to really tell the story in principle, which way we're going, what's the situation, how to get out of this situation that's certainly difficult. What DOS, no matter what aggregate state, has managed to prove, is that even worse is even worse. The worst is when DOS is in power. You can turn your head to your will. I'll start with some data. The Republic of Serbia, now present in this territory, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, owes more than the former SFRY. A dollar is a dollar, Mrs. Dragutinovic. Eki was, now he's the euro and the euro is the euro. Four times as many of us are in charge of the main population as we did in the '90s. We can play statistics, we can talk fairy tales, but you can't forget that you privatized what's best in the industry and the economy of the Republic of Serbia at all. There are some public enterprises of republican importance left, and you work intensively on privatisation, because now, basically, you have no one to normally be in charge of, all you have left to do is go to the bank's counters in Serbia and make a loan there. When the state borrowed from some commercial bank this way like you've been promoting it for the last five or six months. It was the IMF, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, some foreign countries, and now you're going to the commercial bank to borrow. Probably in the next stage, in November, when you are unable to pay for neither pensions nor salaries of education and health care etc. Then you'll go to the post office and the mail counters. It's a natural flow. This is the legality of a crazy economic policy that has been promoted in the winged "expert in front of politics". Here the expertise comes down to the ability to borrow, not something else that is characteristic of the economy, cost reduction, productivity increase, etc. That's not what we're talking about in Serbia. In Serbia, it is said before the elections that we will hire 500,000 people if his Majesty is elected, and then every month between 10,000 and 20,000 people get solutions and leave jobs. What shouldn't be a problem has become a problem. Malin's the problem, cherry's the problem, plum's the problem, grapes's the problem, wheat's the problem. What's not the problem in this country? It's all a big problem. It's a policy that's been conducted for seven or eight years in this country: borrowing, borrowing, borrowing. Of course, in order for it to go the way someone came up, you figured out, not specifically you by name and last name, but DOS in any aggregate state, and then under these contracts as a purpose for what these funds are used for, and why they're looking for these loans, you put something that a real man wouldn't be able to object to. But it's a prank. Of course, I'm taking a huge risk criticizing this concept of yours that someone who works in health care, that someone who needs medical services misreads these words of mine, which wouldn't surprise me, given that you also have media domination, so that someone who says tomorrow - they're radicals against health centers, they're radicals against clinical centres. No, we're not even against building, renovating, equipment and building standards that are suited to our needs and our capabilities and that citizens are treated more successfully in these health centers. We don't talk about it because it's not controversial, but here the question is whether this future responsibility for these purposes does not mean that these funds have been thrown into the well. Why the well? Well, the Clinical Centre of Serbia, this one here, we see an object without windows, with some boards etc., was built at a time when the director of this centre was not a doctor but were economists and lawyers. Look at our clinical centers - Nis, Kragujevac, etc. They've been the main subject for 30 years. As the government changes, that's how it's always built, it's a priority. In Nis they invented a new clinical centre to race Belgrade, to race with this and to provide some allegedly health services, and it's a bottomless well -- you throw money, you throw money away. You throw money, and every year you say phase one, phase two, phase three -- not enough funding, you need more, you need more. There's more to it and nothing's done. Since I'm a few years old, so I've had to do some work in my life, not in my Nis, but outside Nis, because I couldn't get a job for this national security, so I had to participate in this Morava 2 program. Let me give you my personal experience of what happens when such projects come? We also have in this package some projects related to small and medium-sized enterprises, and framework loans, and available funds, and then three years to report, etc. It goes into one kind of administrative and other procedure, where the paperwork is actually washed to make something appear and justify - why you need to finance something. You see, according to the Morava 2 project, the Italians didn't know how to sell their lager machines, so through some international banks or some institutions, they decided they could lend credit, but provided they bought their goods -- that's their surplus. At that time, bright minds realized that they were precisely creating such potentials and such capacities in the area of agricultural and food production, to buy these machines and to produce non-marketable goods. This story is very important because that free cheese is only in a mouse hunter and it takes someone to crash, to take it, and then when it's broken, it stays there. This is exactly what I'm saying. This is what I'm saying. This is what they call a NATO Pact and the EU, so they don't kill us and cut us. Maybe you didn't understand Mr. Mirovic well. Before we begin to notice something happening, the economy first ended, secretly, in secret, in secret, a dirty job of preparation. We have a situation today -- privatized our economy, probably about 10% of the assets taken from some value. Someone's going to say, well, it's on the market, you can't say it like that, and let's say it's 20%, so let's make it 50% and these figures aren't that important at all, but it's important -- that almost every product structure we've become really dependent on abroad today. He's a real addict and we've lost economic sovereignty. We've lost our ability to charge our balances ourselves. We've become -- business, industrial, financial, and we're looking at an economic dependence on abroad at all. A few months ago, as an excuse for the global financial crisis here is said -- we go with a combination of measures, we introduce something that is a reduction in consumption, we introduce savings, it's one measure that will give some results and another measure is that budget and all other deficits are covered by debt, because we're allegedly not over-indebted enough. We're over-indebted. Take it, make an assessment. We're always in the budget, getting these projections all the time. This is the famous member of 4th, it seems to me, the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. There is also the state of debt, the possibility of issuing guarantees, the possibility of new borrowing, etc. It's all bad for this economy of ours. We cannot get out of these jaws, if we are in debt this way and if at the same rate, like 2001, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, and in 2009, we produce, stamp - agencies, regulatory bodies and reproduce some that are only consumers, i.e. consumers of funds provided through taxpayers. At the same time, we have other processes. We have processes that that part of us that can do business, let's say, electricity, take an example of the electricity industry, do you, Mrs Dragutinović, know how much we lose in the electricity trade as a state and someone makes money? It is not only those two Hamovic - Lazarevic, but there are many - there are many who earn. Did you, for example, take advantage of all the possibilities to stop these processes -- you didn't, you couldn't, you couldn't? That's the problem, you can't finish it. Why? Probably the first man in this country is standing above it and watching it all, controlling it. You see, now you've brought back a director who's been expelled for crime, but you've returned him legally to the competition. I don't need anything to doubt, but the fact that he was moved two years ago because of some suspicion is now legally returned. Why? To continue his work, and that's where billions and billions turn. Do you know that a part of the pharmaceutical industry is preparing for the privatisation of Mrs Dragutinovic and that the companies are seriously poored, "stealing" in the most brutal way possible? How? Directors with references are appointed, and their reference is to have destroyed several companies. They proved themselves in destruction. We today in the country don't choose people who can pull something, some company, some firm, some area -- no, a mandatory reference to destroy something, to have a reference to destruction. If you have a reference to destruction, here you go. Here's Galenika. So we're going to throw in the banks, and we're going to throw in the trading houses that are going to get the raw materials -- and the end of the story. Then we all have a nice surprise here – imagine it, the company goes down. Do you remember who introduced crisis headquarters in late 2000 and 2001 - Miroljub Labus, returned self-government to the Serbian economy? Do you know that? This is all a normal consequence and the legality of this government that has clapped us, the authority that pushes us into NATO's pact-EU jaw. Where's our interest? Where is the Serbian peasant's interest, where is the Serbian worker's interest, where is the interest of the Serbian owner of a small and medium-sized enterprise - gone? If it is not swallowed by the NATO Pact and the EU, then there are Miskovic, Beko, Peconi, Ceconi, as you call them all by these artistic names, as Serbia is a country of nicknames and the nickname best paints the character of the nickname bearer. Then you come to us here and you say - it's the only solution, there's no other solution. We're going to have 350m euros in debt, but, you know, that's very convenient -- we're going back to hip summer. We'll always bring him back. It is not the return that depends, Mrs Dragutinovic, on us, but on those who have approved. If we don't accept voluntarily to return in seven or eight years, since there's a delayed period, etc., then they're removing your state reserves, foreign reserves located in the US central bank, in the English central bank, in the German central bank. What are you doing here -- some numbers that aren't in your portfolio? Let me remind you, almost 35% of everything we take doesn't come back. These are some consulting services, processing costs, feasibility studies, whatever you'll remember. Mrs Dragutinović, why didn't you consider proposing a regulation, and the SRS would blanco support you, a regulation under which all banks in the Republic of Serbia, which, for example, have names that match the names of banks located in Austria, Germany, France, would be obliged here to apply the interest rate they apply in their countries? Why would we suffer big Europeans here from Raiffeisen Bank or this other one, it doesn't matter what, you can't make any mistakes at all, whatever you say, when they charge here 17, 18 and not talk about how much interest and here they promote themselves as engines of development, they bring us European standards? Is there an interest rate of 17% in France? It's not. If you want European standards here, let them give the European standard of their interest policies in France, let them implement it here. He won't, Mrs. Dragutinovic. They opened up here to launder money and to work with the population. Did I beg, beg and criticize you three years ago, and for that Financial Lising Act and those other regulations? Does anyone know what this housing corporation is doing? The other day we were talking about that social standard. What did you promote here? It sounds very nice, there's only one problem, you don't eat. You can't put it in your mouth at all, you can't eat, but it sounds nice. It sounds like that commercial by Mladje Dinkic in 2001 or one of Ace Vlahovic's commercials – a start for property, a privatisation commercial. You've divided society into 2% of winners and 98% of losers in transition. They're all losers in transition, that's their concept, that there's something called impoverishment. Start from the drum stream down towards Vranj. See your statistics on what the average income is. Think about it, Mrs. Dragutinović. The state is the biggest lawless builder, the state. Let me remind you, in 2003, this Swissman, who has this Geodesy Agency, you know what he said about the 2003 Construction Act? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Look at Rakovic, she's totally illegal thanks to DS and that Bojana Milic. How long do you mean with these media manipulations? You see, media manipulations certainly allow you to be in power, but they cause far greater damage to people's souls. They don't know how to concentrate, they don't know who to trust, they don't know what to look at. There's no telling if there's going to be a pension in November, people. You've brilliantly remembered how to keep your promise. You cut your salary and now you're retired, and you've fulfilled your promise. You are equating us in poverty and poverty, equalize us in wealth, let them all be like Miskovic. He can't? You want to bring us all down to the social level, and you're doing a good job. You're doing an extremely good job. Because you're doing well, you're getting commendation from both Ollie Ren and Javier Solana and the NATO Pact and all of them. It would be a shame for them to praise me, to experience me as the greatest disappointment, the greatest shame, the greatest defeat that can happen to me to shake hands with Javier Solana, with Ollie Rehn. We all know what they're doing in this country. In this country, the sparrow couldn't cross the 1991-1996 border, whichever year you want. They were their observers. Who could have traded? Criminals. They know about these criminals, all those criminals. All those criminals have their hands on them. When they need a dirty job, here's a criminal, as a sponsor, sponsor of pro-European personnel, so the one who bathed once a month, four times a day and became a European guy, acceptable to God, and let's not fool people. We won't support that. We never got a report of what was done with the loan funds, never, and when the state gives the guarantee and when the state is directly in debt. We don't know where that money's going, which well it's going to. Corruption; please, wherever it turns is corruption, wherever you turn. Ask ordinary citizens how they do their usual jobs, everything has to be corrupt. There's even got to be someone corrupt to do things by the law. Be careful, in order to work by law, you have to corrupt a man. As one man who participated in some bankruptcy procedure says - I had to pay the expert to do it by law, to beg him to do it by law. He says, "You're an abnormal man, you're the first to beg me and give me money to do something by the law, usually asking me to do something outside the law." No, he says, please, by law, just do it to me. That's how much our society's fallout is. My people, when someone is watching this assembly, when they're watching what we're doing here, what we're saying, what we're talking about, what's going on in the papers, there's nothing in the papers, it's only here that you can hear this, and when a man notices that the government is defending itself with an effective silence, it's all clear to people. The message is clear. Fear is being demonstrated. Dear citizens, you are small, be afraid, there are rescuers, there is power, we are fit, love us Europe. Europe loves us, loves us Europe, loves us Europe, every stupidity -- a European standard, and so does this task. And you will vote in charge, you will provide those 126 votes, you will vote on it, the democratic procedure has passed it, it will be a second sentence, the EU will praise you for being on track, on the way to the EU, and Serbia is falling, falling, falling. If you had listened to what Mr. Pai Momchilov read a few days ago about the perspectives of citizens from this territory, I deliberately say citizens from this territory, what demographics say will happen in 10, 15 and 20 years, how anyone will develop in our environment in terms of the number of inhabitants, and what will happen to Serbia in terms of the number of inhabitants, would never raise their hands to vote for these laws, but as most of them would press your government to account for what it does and to be, if possible, although I think this is an impossible mission, to be both more efficient and more successful, and to finally see them start to work our factories. Look out, we're a world miracle. A man comes in as a major investor from abroad and Mladjan Dinkic gives him funds for every job. In the announcement of the idea – comes a man from abroad, brings big money, as the G 17 plus says – the greenfield investments, the icy, suddenly no factory, and then a subsidy for this, a subsidy for this. So he came from abroad to take money from this Serbia. So who promised him that money? The opposition couldn't talk, let alone promise. She promised power, because that's a condition for something. In 2001, I had a chance to watch these emissaries from Brussels, he says – let's invent a project, my nephew works at the European Commission there, for some commission you'll get a grant, or help, or some credit etc. Poor Pitic had to adopt a rule on how to record assistance, donations, etc. in 2001. When those cheap or free raw materials are thrown out, they're acting by European standards, so we're gonna close down a little bit, we're gonna open up a little bit, we're gonna maintain. Similar to other producers who came from abroad. What is your policy? Your policy comes down - hold the water until the masters leave, so that nothing threatens your authority. Now start with these media things, the MP bit the house, the dog bit by the president of the assembly, etc., entertain the people with these things. Start with shows - jiuhu, hahaha, etc., big spectacles in the squares, people jumping with happiness, enjoying art etc. And where's the end? What will be left of this people? Who's gonna get this back? Under what conditions will he return? They'll have something changing there, those who approve of loans. You remember how they negotiate when loans come back. They put the banking way of thinking and talking into diplomacy. Once diplomacy was characterized by sitting down at the table, and for days, it has been debated for months to bring interests into line. Now there's diplomacy on the Holbrooke system, take it or leave it, or you'll have carrots or a stick on your back. Don't get into it. Not to remind you who you've criticised from abroad and why, that's not the bright future of Serbia, nor Russia, nor China, nor the unsettled. I see now Tadic's unclassified best. What happened seven years ago? What were the messages? Let me remind you, in 2001, you said -- Kosovo's problem is because of Milosevic and the regime, we, when we come, will deal with it with our partners. What happened in two months? They wouldn't let Tadic go to a meeting of the DS in Kosovo and Metohija. So there's nothing to do with any change, but because of the authorities, you've accepted everything and everything. It's been a while, so you can see it's bad. Is that the story of you as you are? It's a story about you driving this bus. You're acting like that mouse that can drive without looking at it, driving a mouse. Is that your goal? The citizens didn't send us here to applaud you - drive the Mouse. The citizens sent us to criticise you if you don't do something right, to learn lessons from this criticism, to improve yourself if you can. If you don't, see for yourself, it's coming in September, so think about it. I've completed the process of thinking, as soon as I see some, I'm going out, it hasn't burned this congregation in a long time. It hasn't burned in a long time! You can only burn on fire. Ihuhu, happy atmosphere, big changes! What changes? They're all poor. Who's to blame for poverty? DS, DOS, Boris Tadic, your accomplices and those who control the government and part of the opposition in this country. That's why we don't give in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26991	Thirty minutes of the parliamentary group's time has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 3 by MP Zoran Nikolic. The amendment without correction was accepted by the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, which considered the amendment legally possible. The corrections of the Finance Committee and the Legislative Committee have not been declared, nor has the Government which has not accepted the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26992	The content of the amendment's corrections is that only more concretely underlines what the National Assembly should receive in the report that the Assembly needs to receive. It says that within 30 days of the conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will deliver contracts to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and there is an amendment, and I do not think it is disputed to accept this amendment, as the supplement does not change the amendments at all. Allow me, I won't be long, and I must say why this amendment. Simply, I also said in principle that we have seen one rule, which is that the last sessions were with a large number of agenda points and by the rule of very significant laws, and at the end of these sessions we were given these points, where we as a state are additionally in charge and it is obviously a well-packed package to discuss essential laws, and the small door goes quietly, but surely that system that we are borrowing from month to month. That's why we need to get reports from the government when these contracts are made. But the very fact that we are in debt from month to month is not a positive fact, for the simple reason that the debt state is not an economical or strong state, and in particular the structure and conditions under which we are in debt and the purpose of these funds is also not in the function of economic growth, but of patching up primarily budget gaps. What I would now refer to is your last statement, or Minister, that we will have a social product drop between 3.5 and 5%. What if it doesn't? So your performances in this assembly when you were proposals for budgets, rebalances, economic laws, you absolutely don't trust it to really be, because whenever you go out with estimates you and the prime minister, and the economic part of this government and government in general, it turns out to be incorrect. Now I'm saying that the fall is not going to be between 3.5 and 5, so it's going to be greater, so it's going to be a minimum of 6%, and God forbid it's going to be more. What we definitely do with these loans and this extra money we borrow, we're not going to solve the problems we have in the banking system, we're not going to solve the problems that the government has and as a state we have in terms of debt to the passengers. The pension system will not be resolved, the issue, the difficult issue and the difficult situation in agriculture will not be resolved. What can possibly defend you is the adoption of this new information law, that no journalist can write that this government has inadequate measures, at the very least as incompetent as it is irresponsible, but also under this new law will have to write praises about this government. Here's an example: agriculture. So, all our mouths were boasted, and in all the media, we had information that the state bought 65,000 tons of wheat, and it was presented as a huge success, even though it was 3% of the stork. These are the minimum expenditures and the minimum ransom, in a way that can be handed over by those who have at least 20 tonnes of wheat. So at least seven acres they had to sow wheat, which means they were big hosts, up to 100 tons that had income. It's presented as a great success, and it's the least said scandal, not to say the harshest word, that it's a shame. Secondly, you made that difference among farmers, or peasants. Why didn't you offer everyone a pound? For not covering all those and giving the same rights to all agricultural producers, and not by assigning administrative districts to cover 3%, means everyone on their territory, on the political line - let's close that whole ransom, someone got 13 dinars of buying wheat, or the right to receive 13 dinars for a kilo of wheat, and these others as they did. The stock market says 10 dinars, probably nine, we'll see, depending on humidity, given what time it was at harvest time, so rainy, we'll see what price it'll be, it'll probably be lower. At the end of the line, someone couldn't go into the harvest because of the weather, and you were already going into the process of redemption, so someone who had succeeded, who had been lucky and God looked at him, that he could perform the harvest, he picked up the offering and could surrender, and someone had to wait seven to ten days to stabilize the weather, so he couldn't. Only in this case can you see how irresponsible the government is. I say, it is likely that you will defend this information law, because under this law, and now it is clear why all the ministers, or most of the ministers in the government, voted for a bill like this to come to parliament, which we will vote on if I do not cheat on Friday 31st. So here's some colleagues saying I'm wrong. We'll see. I got a satisfactory answer. Thank you. This case shows how irresponsible the government is. It's not easy for you and it's not easy for us, it's not easy for us in the country, when a third of the budget goes to pensions, it's a fact that it's very difficult for us to say unsustainable. That's where we have to see what we're gonna do. I can't patch up the holes. You can't borrow certain money at the monthly level and try to cover budget gaps in this way. All this points to what we've been saying and what's said here, that this government has no economic concept, that it's very short-term. It really doesn't surprise me, and I'm deliberately talking about it again, and I end up with it, I'm absolutely not surprised that part of the ruling majority, we'll see if the entire ruling majority, too, has decided to pass such a non-democratic information law, because it's the last phase when you're actually defending the media to criticize you objectively and to show the public what's really coming to us. We're not getting anything good. As for this amendment, I thank you for accepting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26993	Five minutes and 30 seconds have been used by the MP's group. The word has Finance Minister Diana Dragutinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26994	I just wanted to say that I accepted the amendment, with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26995	I find that on behalf of the finance minister's proposal, the amendment to Article 3, which was submitted by MP Zoran Nikolic, with correction. Since the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee has not spoken of the corrections, the Assembly will declare its amendment in the voting day. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26996	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, first of all, I want to thank you for being present in the hall today in front of the promoter, because we were concerned that the Minister of General Practice, Mr Ciplic, might defend these laws and, of course, thank you for accepting the DSS amendment asking that the National Assembly be informed of all the duties that are being carried out in this country. I think it's perfectly normal. The other day, you said you stopped this country's financial collapse. We, believe me, had no such knowledge that the country was being threatened by a financial collapse, because we never heard of it from any of the other representatives of the government. We heard that the crisis is Serbia's development chance, that Serbia's economy, Serbia's agriculture can take advantage of this crisis to further develop and make expansion progress and development. You said the reasons for the decline in income were reduced imports and heavy consumption. That's right. We agree with that. We have indicated that spending must be reduced if we have a desire to survive the budget. We also pointed out that it is probably our luck that Serbia is not an export-oriented country, so other businesses that are in the same economic problems cannot react in such a way as to hitchhike our goods and that our export-related businesses feel it on their skin. You said you've been in a dilemma more than once when it comes to fiscal policy-making. We recognize that dilemma today, even it's not just a dilemma, it can be called a trilem or more of the problems you've predicted through future measures that this government is planning to adopt. That's what confirms our finding that this government has no vision of this country's economic policy. You say you'll solve problems systematically. We're interested in what system laws are that will solve these problems, what you really want structurally to change or just buy time. Part of the money from the three-billion-euro IMF arrangement will be directed towards budgeting. That, according to us, is called budgeting. I'm sure you don't believe what you said the other day, because here in parliament a few days ago you said that these IMF funds would be used for foreign reserves, to defend the stability of the dinar course, and that's acceptable. You didn't answer the question we asked many times, who bought those foreign exchanges when the course was defended and when he came from 70 to 95 dinars. What's definitely a problem is that in this year's budget fill is significantly less than planned and there was no month when budget revenues exceeded 60 billion dinars. You said that you were not the only one who created fiscal policy, but that the decision was made by the government in the decision on measures. It is understandable that certain measures are adopted at the cabinet session. I remind you how long we've been waiting for first measures. I remind you of how many legislative proposals we have tabled in the assembly procedure, which this assembly has never discussed, and that in an adequate and timely manner, it is certain that the consequences would be much easier on the citizens of Serbia. We still don't see the real results of these measures, and we're still thinking about how we should get out of the crisis. In the upcoming negotiations with the IMF, the government will propose an increase in the fiscal deficit from 3% to 4.5%, if I am not mistaken, based on your statement. I wonder if you remember how much GDP was planned to be at the beginning of this year, how much it is now and how much you expect it to fall, and how much you can make that percent of the plus when it goes down to minus, between 10% and 11% according to optimistic some data if we stick to some 5% of the GDP drop. Obviously, we have a record GDP decline, and I'd like to hear the data that years have been this low in GDP in the last few decades, say. When you propose new measures, you think about increasing VAT. You said if VAT increases by 1%, it would affect Serbia's budget with about 30 billion dinars per month. As one measure you're thinking about is firing extra employees. I'm asking how long have you been firing employees? Thousands of people are out of work. You didn't call the state administration. What everyone boasted and promised to reduce the costs of the state administration, we see no results. A new income tax is being considered, and this produces one solution. Instead of cutting costs, you in Serbia are cutting wages. You are announcing reforms in health care. Minister Tomica forever Milosavljevic, who has been minister for seven years, has been constantly reforming something, he implements some reforms every year. Obviously, these reforms refer to construction facilities, clinical centres and equipment without considering the country's health system, as you want to do. You are announcing a fundamental reform of the pension and social system. I guess that means that the workload, or the time limit, is going to increase to 67 years or another year, we're going to see that when you come out with concrete measures. You also said that what exists in Serbia doesn't exist anywhere. That the participation of pension spending is 14% in GDP everywhere and that in Serbia it is 15%. Mr. Krkobiæ, Deputy Prime Minister, said there will be no pension cuts, and we told you long ago to our PUPS colleagues that there will be no funds to pay off the 12th pension this year. We're not happy about it, but the indicators all point out that's exactly how it's gonna happen. We're telling you that monthly budget revenues in 2009 are lower by 6% than planned, and we'll agree on that. That's what you said, and I have your statement. After this year's deficit, your estimate is that it will amount to between 700m and 800m euros and Serbia has a chance to keep the budget balanced next year and even in a mild surplus. That's what you said. I'm really wondering if you're doing the data again, if we can really expect a budget surplus next year. I don't know what kind of math you're going to do. I don't want this to look funny. Some newspapers wrote about who cried at a press conference the other day, who was supposed to cry, but you are not the Minister of Sadness, but the Minister of Finance of this country, so be responsible for the function you perform and for the citizens you need to ensure that they live and work normally. It should not be news that Serbian citizens should read in the press. The crisis, of course, is felt all over the world, and you assure us that, under the most favourable conditions, someone will grant us funds and give us favourable loans that will help us overcome the existing crisis. On the other hand, the country's budget drills as it arrives and spends money on Serbian citizens not in a very transparent way. We've made sure of that many times when we're making budgets and budget rebalances and the data we've been getting. Of course, all governments in the world are serious about solving these problems, taking certain measures to reduce the economic crisis and mitigate it. Some prime ministers resigned, and our prime minister, Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, went on a summer trip to Greece, and I have a dilemma – whether to bathe in the Ionian or Aegean Sea. If you can tell me that, please. Therefore, Madam Minister, dear Mrs Dragutinovic, what we announced a few months ago, somewhere in April and May, it is realistic that Serbia is expecting budget rebalancing already in September. That's why I think you and your ministry need a serious way to prepare for that rebalancing, because I'm sure it will be the true beginning of the end of this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26997	Eight minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The DSS parliamentary group is available for 10 minutes and 15 seconds. The word is by MP Dejan Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26998	Mrs Dragutinović, as a doctor of economic science, you certainly know which Jože Mencinger and in this context our argument against continued borrowing of 350m euros is based on his estimates, and you will acknowledge as Dr. Economic Sciences that he is more than professional and has a very deep experience and has results behind him, finally as is most important. For the sake of the citizens of RS, I would say a few words, this is the man who essentially led the economic policy of the Republic of Slovenia. He was, if I'm not mistaken, the governor, the finance minister, and now he's teaching at the University of Ljubljana. The results are behind it, because according to all indicators, except for East Germany, but there are already some political elements involved, Slovenia is a country, let's say, the most advanced in transition or that has passed this transition period with the best results. Of course, he says so, and many other economists, that Slovenia had this advantage as a relatively small country, of some two million inhabitants, that in the former Yugoslavia it had a privileged position and a privileged market, and that, as with us in RS, it had trained labour and trained people who ran businesses. In that sense, I quote Mr. Mencinger, he has openly said several times, you certainly know that Slovenia had this privilege or that happiness that it was not immediately admitted to international financial organisations, the IMF and the World Bank. That's what he says, I can quote you. It was his statement in an interview with "NIN" since 30 September 2004. Now I will literally quote you: Slovenia was quite rich to get out of Yugoslavia before the war started and I say (not me, but Mencinger) that we were lucky that international financial organisations didn't recognize us immediately. Those are his words. Then, Mr. Mencinger, to keep quoting his words, he says openly this – foreign investments in the financial sector are not needed, these are his words, or more harmful than they are using. It is precisely what we have done, not us, but the government, we are the opposition, where the government made the biggest mistake when it started bankruptcy and in fact destroyed four of the largest Serbian banks and allowed foreign Western banks, which are far from being development banks, which are monopolies and lenders, I must say openly, and besides, Mr Cvetkovic, if I am not mistaken, at the UN, when he said that the margins are seven times bigger in the RS than they are in the West. Also, your fellow Deputy Prime Minister, in charge of economics and regional development, if I am not mistaken, said in "News" about a month ago that he would tell Western creditors, Western banks that it is unfair for RS citizens to support citizens in Western Europe. He said something like this, and I have that statement, and I can quote you if you want. It is clear from your statements and a statement by the authorities that they are exactly Western banks which deepen the crisis in RS. In that sense, Mr. Mencinger, again, I quote his interview "Ninu" also says the following – foreign investment is holding back economic growth. This sounds heretic, because we are faced with a non-critical glorification of foreign investment concepts, it even leads to a kind of dogma, where, as I have already quoted some of the quasi-positional parties, one chance for Serbia, etc. For the sake of Serbian citizens and for the sake of understanding our position that we are against further borrowing of RS, we want to say one more thing: foreign investments in that notion applied to the public are actually brownfield investments or the sale of domestic companies. I will give you one more piece of information that confirms this – according to government data from 2000 to 2007 total greenfield investment in RS, these are the only investments we recognise, this Brownfield investment, foreign direct investment can be interpreted as the sale of domestic companies, and that is exactly what Mr. Mencinger thinks and Mr. Greenfield investments were planned and achieved around a billion and 900 million euros. On the other hand, your colleague from the Faculty of Economics, Mr Predrag Jovanovic-Gavrilovic, whom we mentioned in the principle debate, and who I believe to be, and you agree that our biggest expert in the field of international business finance, besides his 1996 textbook, is also used at the Faculty of Economics, claims that in 2000, it is precisely under the orders of the SBBBB and that this is not my word, these are his words, the definition came to the conclusion that Serbia's debt to GDP is 120%, and based on this data, it is claimed that the external debt to GDP is falling. He claims and proves it in his 2007 article on the responsibility of the RS that it is a lie, a lie, involving people from the SB, such as Simon Grey, a man who is supposed to be a signator of this contract with the World Bank, who constantly, I have to use such an expression, harass us in public opinion and tells us that many subsidies are given to public enterprises and criticized by you, not you personally, but the RS budget. Mr. Predrag Jovanovic-Gavrilovic very precisely proves that these data are incorrect and that it is not true that this base was 120% of GDP. In that context, we are again against further RS borrowing. As for Mr. Mencinger, you know that while he was determining the economic policy of the Republic of Slovenia, I think it was somewhere until 2002, if I'm not mistaken, the Slovenians didn't sell their banks. Slovenians kept their banks and only when they moved to the Faculty of Ljubljana and when another set, which can be said to be personally tied to Brussels, was sold to Slovenian banks and sold to Slovenian companies, resulting in the external trade deficit of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we have much worse, and this particular Mr. Predrag Jovanovic-Gavrilovic says that the cumulative external deficit by 2007 was $36 billion. Let's add to that those $12 billion in 2008 and you'll see that the EU's accession, which is our largest foreign trade partner of over 50%, has gone over $25 billion. What did we get in return? We get loans like this from the European Investment Bank. What kind of credit is that in practice? You know that the general terms of such a loan are that 50% of each project is funded by the European Investment Bank. Another 50% should be financed by that borrower from Serbia. So if you don't have that 50%, you still have to be in charge. That makes sense. So again, I am talking about the vicious circle of borrowing, where the IMF, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In this context, you will say that the argument that up to 12m euros will be financed independently by the European Investment Bank, but this huge 250m-euro loan and 25m-euro projects essentially do not change the way credit is given. Of course, as in the World Bank's loan, these loans, which I say responsibly in the SRS, have great potential for corruption, which is encouraged by the European Investment Bank and the World Bank. Why am I saying that? Here, I'll give you a concrete example. You know that according to this World Bank loan, there are guidelines for providing funds for projects. What are these guidelines? The guidelines are that this project monitor, there is a co-ordinator in the Republic of Serbia and there is a regional co-ordinator, that they must have experience working in the World Bank. You see the conflict of interest again, you see Western suppliers, Western firms and all those that stretch across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the IMF and the World Bank. Similarly happens in a project that is reportedly to be financed by the European Investment Bank. Because of Serbian citizens, I will be clear again, I am talking about a 250m-euro loan. Apparently, this loan will bring happiness and development to our society. On the other hand, compare only the figures, $24 billion has gone to the EU from the Republic of Serbia in these eight years, and how much has been credited by the European Investment Bank? I'm telling you, 10 times less. On paper, but the question is how far they've been realized. On the other hand, if someone brought you into line, as the IMF does, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, destroys the economy, destroys industrial production, which cannot reach the level of 1998, please, that year when we had a riot on KIM, we had one kind of sanctions, industrial production can't reach the level of 1998. What does that mean? That means it's that so-called. The deleter path is wrong, in economic terms it's wrong. This is the reality that the citizens of Hungary know and therefore more than 50% are against the EU. Look what's going on in Bulgaria. A 500m-euro aid has been promised, if I'm not mistaken, or 700. Apparently, corruption in Bulgaria has not won it. I do not dispute, there is likely to be major corruption in Bulgaria, but there is corruption in the EU. Look, you had Mr. Mendelson's trade representative from Great Britain. He had to resign twice in the UK for corruption. Do you know how he was rewarded? He became EU Trade Commissioner. These are the people who say whether corruption is in the Balkans, whether corruption is in Serbia and Bulgaria. I'm telling you, the EU is a very corrupt organization. These are corrupt people and they will find reasons to hitchhike projects financed by the EIB, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and so on. Donations, which are more than clear to go towards co-ordination of donor projects, to coordinate such projects as the World Bank project. In that sense, if you cut the budget expenditure by 20%, it's a huge figure, it will inevitably reflect on health care, on education. It will affect both our army and the police. On the other hand, you get a loan of 10m euros from the World Bank. You'll let it be like shutting down the fire with gasoline.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u26999	From the time that you have left at your disposal as an authorised representative for minutes and 10 seconds. The People's Messenger Velimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27000	Madam Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, you saw today, we will have loans again, we will have responsibilities again, we will have major problems in Serbia. How to get it all back, how to get everyone in charge and how to run this country's finances, when they've been mishandled since 2000. From 2000 to today, NBS, the full funding was run by Dinkic and G17. Of course, they were replaced by Democrats and here's where we came from. We have reached where we are, that Serbia is becoming an extremely unstable market in which no one will invest anymore, only credit lines can be taken. Which is very interesting, I was greatly offended last time by the finance minister after my discussion that was completely in place, when she didn't want to understand what I was explaining to her and she didn't want to understand me, and these mistakes are still making, they're in charge of "The Roads", "The Roads", they're giving, it's a great bet on the World Bank's loan, EBRD, EIB. The ‘roads’ are over-indebted. That's what you've been doing for years. It was Mr Dinkic's idea. Whenever we broke an agreement with the IMF, he found a compromise to reduce investment in Serbia to already completed works, so that according to the Budget Law, what was set aside for infrastructure, investments in Serbia could not be paid. The NIP thing that was supposed to be that couldn't be paid. Dinkic asked for it to be transferred to the next financial year, and Cvetkovic continued such a policy, so he said, I have his speeches, his records from the Transport and Connections Committee, where he said – well, it doesn't matter, we will reduce "The Roads", but we will give them the opportunity to raise credit so they can stabilise their situation and thus deprive themselves. The ‘roads’ are over-indebted. They have more credit obligations than toll revenue and everything else they charge, so that when the state is in charge of infrastructure facilities, it has an obligation to finance around 30% and 70% of the credit lines received from SB, EBRD, EIB. However, since we don't have the money, we "roads" make a loss, we assign them, we promise to fulfill their obligation and to enter into investments, we take credit as part of another loan. That led us here where it led us. One day everything in Serbia will stop. Public enterprises are falling apart like this. Take, for example, public enterprises in the mines, Resavica and others, 4,000 workers sitting there, no social security, can't settle their obligations, people are in big trouble. But we can't just go on with this policy. The NBS has never filed a report with parliament, let's see what's really going on. What's this about? Great responsibilities go without this House's decision. Three billion euros in debt to the IMF without the consent of the Serbian parliament. In what way will it be spent, where and how, we don't know. Many projects launched in Serbia stand. We got credits, and it's impossible to move because we don't have our participation. The “Gazala” Bridge has been standing for years. We are serving credit, the project is not working, because what Serbia was supposed to pay for, the organisation of access to traffic, the transfer of traffic, and everything else is not finished. A bypass project has been abandoned around Belgrade, and this was a condition for other works to be carried out there, to continue, to enter certain new credit lines. The credit for the Pančeva Bridge has been raised, our participation and the city of Belgrade have not been paid, we have not met. The credit lines were not paid on Bor's head, the participation of the Serbian government, then on the major projects that we did and our participation in the reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad road through the Sistevačka gorge, were not paid. Let's not talk about participating in works that were on the railways, etc., in agriculture, in many of the projects that we've been doing Serbia has not met. Why? What the NIP funds are going to stabilise the budget and the budget deficit that we have been building for years, and now it has been greatly increased. What will cover Serbia's budget deficit this year -- of course from investments, from those commitments to public enterprises, etc.? You saw false accounts, which were made to take certain funds to public enterprises and make a fictional profit, so that the budget would withdraw funds -- which we now have in the NIS case, and when the audit was done was a loss of 8m euros -- we showed a profit of 3.5m euros, etc. Therefore, a very bad financial policy that has been conducted for years through the National Bank and through the Ministry of Finance continues. Finance ministers, literally, when Dinkic was doing what they wanted to do and brought Serbia here where they brought her. Now we have a completely devastationed economy, a ruined economy, which has no power to recover, to move on, to stand on its feet. We take this borrowing into some lines of credit, which are purely administrative, for health care, instead of building, or people waiting for heart surgery, over 3,000 people are on hold, for hip surgery, for knee surgery, etc., we take it to improve the conditions of administration. Who in their right mind is taking credit lines today to give some administrative services to improve their working conditions? What's the administration going to do if it can't work, if we don't have a place for those who do jobs, who operate, if they don't have simple equipment? It was sad to listen to one of the clinic's chiefs the other day, when he said we only have one kit and we do very often operate, and we're not in a situation to do sterilization, and so there are both sepsis and many other problems, etc. Credits are not invested where they can quickly return and service themselves, but again for political reasons in order to give certain conditions to certain environments, etc., to develop and run a campaign of certain political parties. I've been transferred recently, the Minister once said it here, I went out, I didn't want to get nervous to comment on it. Madam Minister, you said I had paved something in Serbia that was not necessary - it is not true. I spent every penny on purpose. Now let me take you ladies to take a look, when one of your party's important personalities is working their way through the orchard, where there's only one house, hers. To her house, through the orchard, through the woods, a woman clogged to get her asphalt to the threshold, to show her political power. She called the peasants to tell them they'd come tomorrow to asphalt it. I can take you to look at it, see. To see your leaders, your coalition partners, who have been walled on the building these days, in downtown Belgrade, the house. Upgraded people, they want to have a house on top of the building, and a nice yard and a view of downtown Belgrade. You have completely destroyed the management of the financing of the core drivers of the development of the Serbian economy and the basis of employment. Small investments in energy - this is the future of Serbia, i.e. energy, agriculture, construction and roads. Do we have a minister of construction - we don't? This building minister of ours, he just cleans up, collects plastic bottles and we watch it every morning. The man leads Neda Arneric, leads Sergei Trifunovic, they speak, they talk. It is nice to clean Serbia, but the building minister forgot that he is the minister of construction and urbanism. The backbone of the start of Serbia's economy should be construction. Construction has stopped, Madam Minister. All your construction companies are in bankruptcy or blockade. Is it possible to explain that one energy project is cramping? Why--what does the state owe him? That one Rad, Komgrap, Ratko Mitrovic, Mostogradnja -- was destroyed because of the debt of the state, just like the Ways of Serbia. Construction was completely destroyed because they were ordered to work and build and nothing was paid for. You replaced the directors, you privatized them, you brought them into bankruptcy, you destroyed their banks -- that's what Dinkic did for Sartida, and you know who was president of the Privatisation Agency, when it was shamefully done in Sartide and destroyed the largest Serbian bank -- Beobank, Investbank and Jugobank, which carried the development of the Serbian economy. With the destruction of Serbian banks, Serbia's economy has completely collapsed, investments have ceased and employment has ceased in Serbia. It now invests less in agriculture than ever, and that is a great potential for Serbia's development and launch. I wouldn't mind seeing something run there, but you're raising credits, and the backbones of the development of the Serbian economy are completely firing -- Serbia's roads, i.e. travel, construction, energy and agriculture. It is the basis for the development of the Serbian economy, and it is not the ski resort Dinkic built -- wherever he saw hills, he installed it because he had a good deal with the ski equipment manufacturer. No one's working today except the Bather, and we've done the Bather. Those who have made the Kopalnik with me have all been put away today, and have not been removed and destroyed, and Ljubisha who carried there, and Miki Saviæićić, and all those who worked. Dinkic replaced them all, took over, brought his men and destroyed them all and destroyed them all. Just take it that the Stara Planina Ski resort last year with two employees, of course from G 17 plus, made you a loss of 80 million. There was no skier there, you don't have a ski dog that worked, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, there's no roads, there's no parking, there's no motels, there's no tracking infrastructure -- everything's completely destroyed. What about the ski resorts in Golia? What about ski resorts to Divchibara? How much was invested there? I remember roads from Valjev to Bogdanovic hills, from Mionica completely across the cell, all finished to bring traffic. Is the ski resort working? It's not working. What did Dinkic do - the equipment's mounted, nothing's working? Some settlements have been installed, and all of them have been destroyed, destroyed. What about Zlatibor? What's the matter with the others? Don't do anything, Madam Minister? These are all missed investments, and they didn't invest where they'd be coming back soon. The import lobby is booming in Serbia. Now Serbia has been flooded by pears, apples from Spain, chicken from Brazil, beef from Argentina. You see what kind of meat our children eat -- that we are the first to have disease and cancer and leukemia in Europe. And your friends who bombed this Serbia, destroyed, destroyed, destroyed, with whom you are now working closely, and are not ashamed to simply punish certain environments and not ask them why tape bombs have been dropped, which have not yet been removed from the king's surroundings, from Jarchuk. Why hasn't the bathing suit been cleaned yet, Pancic's top and that part? Why aren't they ashamed yet, to give some funds, to remove those tape bombs that have been dropped in Serbia, although they are banned under the international convention. Therefore, with such a policy by the finance ministry, the National Bank of Serbia -- through constant duties, by destroying Serbian banks, which are completely destroyed, I think only the Commercial Bank remains. And to fix it, then you're completely done. I remember how much fighting it was to sell the Post Office, and even more so, she was arrested by a director who wouldn't let the Post Office sell, who fought hands and feet so she wouldn't sell it, I remember in the government, because there was already a group that was meant to buy it and let it go. Pensions also went through the Post Office and was simply a large number of clients. So this kind of policy has brought us here today where we are and leads and continues to break us in. You don't have the strength to take some concrete programs and projects. You're re-announced to tell us if there's going to be a VAT increase. Don't play with the VAT increase. That would be the end of the Serbian economy. Don't play with the pension cuts because people are on the verge of hunger, they can't survive, they can't pay for electricity. Don't play with the pay cut and the administration, because there's nothing left to survive. What are your salaries at the department of officials? Twenty-two thousand. Cops? They can't survive. Military faces? The elders? You announced the loans, the people in charge, you took the loans, you took the goods, you got the lease apartments, you got the cars. Now what? They take it all away, they take it back. How much interest has been increased that people can't serve. Therefore, it is easy to lead and increase excise duties, state finances, increase VAT, so can little Djokica, we don't need the Ministry, anyone can do it. As much as there's no money, cut it on the head. Of course, you see how oil, you increase the price, and you automatically increase excises, you increase gas, and there's no reason to increase the price of gas for the household. Then you take the excess of public enterprises and you go back to the budget. So it's all hand-to-hand in the citizens' pocket, and there's no one left to take from. He doesn't strip naked. They don't work giants. I've spoken more than once. How can the Trieste run if the Five-Flyer hasn't worked in years? The system of processing of agricultural products is completely destroyed. "The Buddha" doesn't work for 15 years, "Serbian" is completely destroyed, it doesn't work. They don't do slaughterhouses that used to be raised, most modern. The refrigerators are destroyed. Now you're going to build public state warehouses, so people will be able to put wheat in there and get credit, but for the next set. What do they live on, teach kids? It's September. How do you deal with ordinary problems? How to survive, how to dress and put on children, prepare for school? How do you pay students rent? How many kids pull out of college because parents can't handle funding them? You can see that Montenegro is empty this year. How many people went on vacation? How long are they going to winter? You're welcome. They can't buy milk and bread. You can see they can't buy bread, let alone anything else. And the peasant is destroyed, destroyed, no more than that. He can't survive. You see, since it was cherry, 12 dinars, no one was picking it. Cup, so I don't talk. Here comes the plum. What are you going to do with it? Malina, the raspberries are completely destroyed and destroyed. One totally wrong state policy. Open borders. Ma'am, you're surprised, but we're a built-in street, no country in the world allows foreign goods to flood our market, and that our economy is completely Krahira, to be destroyed. It's Dinkic's idea. You remember that for days we fought in parliament not to adopt unilateral respect for the agreement with the European Community. And you pushed it through. Djelic clicked from the pay phone, waved his hands, gave some speeches. Where is he now to explain? We'll get a white Schengen. So what do we travel with? The middle class does not exist in Serbia, there is nothing to eat from, let alone travel around the world. A small group will travel, as they have traveled, they have also received visas through various agencies. If you have money, you pay and you get a visa right away. So nothing special is going to happen. So, I haven't seen a serious program, I haven't seen a seriousness, one concern. How do you feel when your previous colleague, now Prime Minister, ran out after the anniversary of the government and said, a clean ten, people, this is beyond my expectations. Are you out of your mind? Do you know what the situation is? What you didn't tell him - colleague Cvetkovic, there are not so many reasons for joy, euphoric certain performances and stories about a clean ten. This is black, so it can't be black. Gentlemen, when you go to your cities, the people will ask you, he will take you. There's nothing to bury people with. The funerals are on loan, you know that? They gave credit for four years, read ads every day -- funeral services are done on loan for four years. They don't have a lot of people. You can't buy a grave spot. Since it's a grave site in Belgrade? Ma'am, 20,000 euros, don't be surprised. People leave, sell in the last hope the grave places of their fathers and their grandfathers to survive. You don't know that. Ask around, and you'll see how black it is and how hard it is. Get serious. This may be the last session you'll get through, vote this unfortunate information law, and drag all this through shamelessly. You will gather that voting machine, but let it be your conscience all summer while you rest, as Serbia lives. Did you provide a job for a working-age population? It's your duty, gentlemen of the ruling coalition. Did you make sure that a working man who goes to work neatly can feed his family? Don't give away the free books. The other day, you said, "The Book of Champions." The books are at least an item. Someone's gonna give you something. Give the pay, give the people what they earn. We don't want to be beggars and misery, to beg you, to give us a sandwich and a beer and take us to Guch, as some do. We're not gonna be beggars, walk us around, take us on a one-day trip and tell us -- here's a sandwich and a drink today, and you'll have a nice time. We want to work with dignity, earn and create. Therefore, tell the building minister to understand that he is the minister of the building. Construction is Serbia's great potential, not today, few private firms. The foreigners came in here because none of our construction and travel companies will be able to get a job in the tender because of the state's irresponsibility. Even for projects, you give international tenders. Our project houses and our projectors can't get a job. Therefore, this condition is very risky. Get together and work this summer, make some programs. If you can't, you don't know, go. No one's gonna pull you by the sleeve to stay. Go, ma'am, and let them go and Mr. Cvetkovic and the others. You solve the problems if you know, if you don't know, go. Don't just yell - the big financial crisis in the world, in Europe, there's a crisis everywhere, we've been well in this crisis. It is a crisis everywhere, but it's better to live everywhere than here. Why do their banks come to us to place money if they have a financial crisis? Why didn't our parents go there? Why do they sell goods, we're their market, and they don't give us anything to go to them? Protect your market with customs duties, certificates, various papers that we need to obtain, etc. Protect their producers, subsidies are made for agriculture. You have to start from autumn with artificial fertilizer subsidies, milk subsidies, oil subsidies to farmers so they can process what countries they have. It can't be a sack of fertilizer two acres of forest land, it's never been in Serbia and it can't be survived. So, take something and work this summer or go on vacation and rest, and don't make the wrong moves, don't think about increasing the VAT, as we read these days, because it would completely bury the economy, destroy and thousands of people would come to the bureau and run out of work. Therefore, do something concrete, responsible for Serbia, because you will remain recorded for not doing anything. Come on, do something and do it. Here, find a little projectile, and at least let's remember that at least you've done something. So far it's just stories, stories, stories, and nothing at all. Hire people in production. Open one company, open one factory. Let's see that thing too. Let's get some work done, something to get people to work. And don't let Europe bring us tires here to burn and tell us it's good. You've been given power in Koserić for fraud, and now you're going to lay their tires there, both in Paracino and tell them it's great, Europe pays for it. A stranger who lives in his villa has come to us, and ours to choke. And there will be more and more sick when you bring into healthy environments the ecological catastrophes of each, as you will do. If that's a good thing, why doesn't Europe start the tires with them, why don't they lie in Paris, Vienna? Where do they give it to us? Well, we're not European dumps here. Watch what you do, the people watch you more than ever and follow your every step. You're shutting down transmissions and only games without borders, playing parties, watching the president, these days we're reading that he's very threatened, and he's in the middle of Arena, with party sympathies sitting down... (President: Time, Mr. Ilich. Do you know how much his security in the Arena cost to sit among the citizens? (President: Mr. Ilichu, bring the end. Thousands of people came there to provide it. Why? For him to be a dasa - I've sat down, and in the paper everyone threatens me...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27001	Time's up. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27002	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Dragutinovic, I keep asking why Serbia is constantly in debt when I think it can look for its money. You have a historic chance that what Mladjan Dinkic did in time you do now, which is to continue the way of seeking money in Cyprus. I asked a question several times about giving a guarantee, which is why the law was passed at the previous meeting, "Marfinpopular Bank". I asked you if you checked who this bank is, if it's Cyprus popular bank, if it's "Laiki Bank", is it the same bank where those phantom "Antexol", "Bruncort" and other phantom firms before which our money went to Cyprus? Circumstances have changed, especially in Cyprus circumstances have changed. Tasos Papadopoulos is no longer the president of Cyprus, Aksentios Aksentiu is no longer the governor of the National Bank of Cyprus, Kikos Lazarides is no longer the director of Cyprus popular or Laiki Bank. Those who protected and prevented the discovery of our money in Cyprus, you find that ridiculous, four billion dollars out there today. Dinkic discovered it, gossiped and then shut up. You have a chance to keep looking for that money. Also, you need to check how the National Savings Centre is formed, why four banks have been shut down, whether the Belgrade Bank is still able to work and operate today, what is the role in privatising the National Savings Bank's famous Euroaxsis Bank from Moscow, who are its shareholders, who bought the National Savings Bank, what money, whether it is with a loan actually from the country's foreign reserves. Take care of something that the entire nation would appreciate, because it was constantly hiding, silent, moaning, and muddying. That's why I'm saying you have a historic chance. Ask the Republic Prosecutor or the majority, V.V.D., it is the senior official of the office, Slobodan Radovanovic, what about criminal charges against Mladjan Dinkic and others for the Cypriot money. Did Ubpok finally finish that investigation? Why do you keep quiet about it? Why is that hiding? Why isn't that coming out? Where's our money? Here we pray, cry, whine, take some pointless loans, and the money of these citizens and these countries stand. For your information, the Belgrade District Attorney's Office received a complete file on 19 December 2003 with all possible financial transactions at Belgrade's route – Nicosia in time from 1989 to 2000, only someone should do so. Ask yourself where the money went from the sale of Delta Bank to the Bank of Intez. Is the value added tax paid? It's not. Why Dinkic raised champagne glasses, Cyprus's finance minister should be happy. Now, why don't you deal with these things a little bit, so it'll be enough of our money to settle our needs, not every day to make some loans and to re-negotiate more and more. Our children will have to pay for it, no one gets grace. (President: Time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27003	Excuse me, you've got 30 seconds left. Mr. Shormaz, I gave my first word to Mr. Batic, because he is an independent MP and has the right to report as well as all the presidents of the parliamentary groups within five minutes, and your parliamentary group has already had participation. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27004	Mr Batic didn't even mention what amendment he was talking about. A man comes in and now he gets his word. The amendment of Zoran Nikolic, I've been waiting an hour to talk about this amendment. You're a little distracted, I don't know if these consultations are across the street in the building or if I don't know what, either way, I accept an apology. I've been waiting here for a long time to finish, and maybe not, we wouldn't have reported that the night the SNS was suspended in eight minutes in the debate, so we entered the night session when the transfer was delayed, so when what we were saying from the DSS was said, or seen in the broadcast at half three nights, and what the minister was answering to us, then the Minister even mentioned me twice in her response. She seems to be having a hard time saying she shouldn't compare herself to the better ones. When I said that, I meant the government, I didn't mean you personally. That's what I wanted to tell you later. So, I was thinking of this most incompetent government where you're the finance minister, the government of obsessing, where you're the finance minister. You are now saying whether it will be 3.5% or 5% GDP, and you wanted to compare yourself to the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which had 6.5%, 7.5% growth. What's the difference between that plus and this one you're making? The salaries were around 380 euros, thus pensions were more than today. The official data is that today is 31,000, so the salaries have fallen, so pensions have fallen, no matter what the PUPS says. We, regardless of this amendment that you have accepted, will vote in the day to vote against these three draft laws, because it is a completely pointless borrowing in the situation of the economy and economic situation in which the state is located. Simply, you're in charge of small and medium-sized enterprises, I asked you about what small and medium-sized enterprises? Small and medium-sized enterprises work for large systems. Is this about agriculture, is it US steel, is it the tobacco industry, is it the automotive industry? If these industries don't work, they can't work small or medium-sized enterprises. If wage cuts are announced, if VAT increases are announced, and these are destimulating measures for the economy, it may be a short-term solution to the budget you are leading. But they're destimulating measures for the economy. When you cut wages, you reduce consumption. When consumption is reduced, it's a blow to the economy. When you increase VAT, it's a blow to the economy. They're closing down companies anyway, so they're blocking companies because of debts. If you increase VAT, the company will close even more and the payment will be reduced, and it is that it will be a higher percentage. You're just going out and making bigger and bigger problems and you're bringing Serbia into an increasingly difficult and difficult situation with your incompetence. You deceive citizens in the public service, in fact DS TV and Boris Tadic, whose main news in Dnevnik last week, the first news, and Mr Zoran Nikolic, when he explained the amendment, gave you an example that the purchase of wheat from the national reserves is 3% of production, and you represent it as a success, you put as the first news US steel begins with work. This means that it will revive the metal complex in Serbia. Oh, come on, they've got a high-boiling furnace that's their privileged hardware store, and now they're going to produce 70,000 tons. It's like wheat, 3% US steel capacity. Sartide in sanctions produced 700,000 tonnes, 10 times more in sanctions, and had the Austrian Bank's credit line and co-operated with the Italian company Duferko, whose companies from the European Union violated the sanctions they were in. You're now boasting 10 times less, with 70,000 tons. How long will you deceive the citizens? That's what I told you, then. The government of Vojislav Kostunica also had GDP growth, and growth in production, and growth in exports, and from year to year stable, and growth in earnings from year to year stable. All the opposite of what's going on with you. It's not true that she was in debt, she owed the state, and you said it yourself, and among other things, from the privatisation incomes. I'll say one more thing, since you're in charge of the IMF again. That IMF is in debt this year from China 50 billion dollars. Why do we need the IMF? You have to. You have to. You're the same thing as full, you're like some government, and in fact here it's just coming together, the production's out there. You're manufactured as a government outside and decisions are made there, and here you just screw up and the product goes on. You made the flag a small company. The remarks you have made, make a complaint to your Prime Minister and to your Deputy Prime Minister. They were finance ministers in the government of Vojislav Kostunica at the time. The current Prime Minister and current Deputy Prime Minister were finance ministers. If you have these remarks to make, give them. I'll tell you one more thing about the IMF. In 2005, the U.S. The government of Vojislav Kostunica paid off its commitments to the IMF a while ago. If that's not true, then your Deputy Prime Minister wasn't telling the truth. He then served as finance minister, Mladjan Dinkic, boasted and was literally the next sentence: we saved Serbia, we took off the noose around her neck. Those were his words. Look. We broke up and we're done making arrangements with the IMF, because they're unfavorable. These are the words of Mladjan Dinkic, to say today something quite the opposite. Literally, look at the sentence and you will see that it is true, said Mladjan Dinkic, I repeat again, we took off the noose around Serbia's neck when the arrangement with the IMF was completed. What is this now? New noose around the neck. You're still saying we pulled 800 million dollars or euros, we didn't spend a dime. Why were we pulling back? Why are we paying interest? What's going on with that money? Wasn't it better that we were in charge of our economy than foreign reserves and foreign banks' liquidity here? You're still in charge of commercial deficit banks. You're the prodigal government. When I say this, I don't tell you personally, you're sitting in that government and you need to know it. You're a pest government, you cost Serbia a lot, and it would be best if everyone resigned as soon as possible. This arrangement with the IMF is very bad for Serbia. These borrowings are even more burdensome and if they are the measures you said, Serbia's economy will be in an unembarkable situation. What a story about small and medium-sized enterprises, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27005	The word is Mr. Vladan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27006	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it doesn't take much time for us in the Assembly not to be as MPs in the obligation to verify, give consent, guarantees for new loans, new lending, etc. We have spent a lot of time, words and arguments trying, first of all, to show the Serbian public where this economic policy of the Serbian government will take us, or what it seems to me, unfortunately, is now quite certain, which is that the country is going to get into a dangerous credit debt problem and something that could happen without it, which is a serious debt crisis. The finance minister, as a representative of the government, is there to try to challenge what cannot be challenged. This is also shown by the exact data and analyses carried out and we have, on several occasions so far, indicated, I say, first of all, the public, by analysing the over-indebtedness of the Republic of Serbia in the period from 2000 to now, have shown themselves in the area of borrowing abroad of negative tendencies and they are, above all, looking at this enormous increase in the absolute amount of external debt and thus increasing the country's level of debt. What does that mean? This means that in the coming period, the state of Serbia could fall into a serious debt crisis, and in the fruit and with the effects of the global financial crisis, for which it seems to me that some have yet to determine whether they are bringing us good or bad. All this together can have extremely negative effects on Serbia's fallen economy anyway. Economists know very well, Mrs Dragutinovic knows, when we talk about this degree of duty of the Republic of Serbia, that there are several indicators, on the basis of which it can be concluded that Serbia is, unfortunately, one very responsible country for all of them. If through this accumulated surplus of financial transactions, the increase in net external debt and volume and dynamics of foreign funds, which have been so much said since 2000 and so on, data show that Serbia's external debt in 2006 was expressed in dollars, therefore, by 81% rather than in 2000, expressed in euro by 28%. The internal debt in 2007 increased by 142% compared to 2000 and expressed in euro by 50%. It is clear that the inflow of accumulation from these foreign sources is absorbed through the balance of payments deficits. However, a slightly higher accumulated surplus of financial transactions in Serbia during that period is also due to the increased use of these medium- and long-term foreign loans, as well as, truth to the will, a certain number of net foreign direct investments. The import of capital allowed Serbia to temporarily finance the current balance deficit, thanks to which it was not forced to increase the amount at all costs, but it is clear, and we in the SRS at every opportunity and every moment we show, which is that the time will soon come when a foreign debt inflow will have to be secured. What my colleague Mirovic pointed out, and about this particular debt, I will repeat and again say, for the sake of the public, that one big problem lies at the level of the private sector's debt, because in the period from 2000 to 2000, when it was practically and negligible, the private sector's debt amounted to over $17 billion, according to data from the previous year. What the government representatives assured us of is the story that this debt of the private sector is not a major problem for our economy, absolutely does not stand, because as we could hear, when the time comes for payment of debts can always be asked the question of service of debts by the state and the burden of payment can fall, in the extreme line, on all citizens. Just as we had already pointed out and mentioned not so accidentally in 1983 and the federal government of Milka Planinc, when it came to so-called. the sovereignisation of the debt, i.e. when under pressure from foreign creditors of the government, i.e. the state had to accept the payment of the total external debt and public and private. This private sector debt is also a major problem because its structure is quite unfavourable, because in the financial sector's debt segment the smaller part of the banking sector is being waste, and most of it refers to licking, borrowing for the purpose of buying goods, equipment and other things, which means that the private sector is not in debt abroad to invest in the production and acceleration of business activity. So, when, in the terms of one, I would say, the great responsibilities in which RS is now coming time to pay off debts to the economy, it is clear that this is becoming too burdensome, that in a longer period of time it is delivered abroad to goods or services to pay off debts. In such a situation, there is a decrease in consumption in the country, labour earnings are reduced, raw materials are exhausted, and all this can take several years. When it crosses a certain line, then we will come to a situation where Serbia is today, which is that the economy is completely at peace and that the sources from which the debts are paid are reduced. Speaking of this, I will take this opportunity to repeat to Mrs Dragutinovic something the SRS has been insisting on, which is the fact that since 2000, in the privatisation process, which involved something more than 1,900 companies, that these assets have been around 2.9 billion euros. If it is known that investment has brought back an almost negligible percentage, if we have had these ino-investments in that period, then the question is that today we have come into a situation that the state is facing such a problem, also for the budget deficit, i.e. people's terms, for lack of money abroad. So, where did those funds that didn't, I say, absolutely negligible? It's a figure of nearly three billion euros. Serbia's economic growth, which is also linked to all these developments on the macroeconomic plan, has been characterised by growth rates significantly lower in comparison with foreign inflow rates and an increase in the country's debt over the observed period, in this period of time. It is clear that these foreign funds could not be sufficiently allocated to production that could ensure economic growth. That is why it is not surprising that Serbia's external debt increased at an average annual rate of 13.5% in dollars during this period, while the average annual increase in external debt was 6.22%, with an average annual GDP growth rate of around 5.5%, which means that the increased inflow of foreign funds was absolutely not followed by an adequate increase in the rate of foreign exchange growth. With this in mind, I am keenly interested in what will bring about a new economic recovery plan, as Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic announced, in about a month, probably until they reach their annual rest and until the government gathers again. It's absolutely not clear to me if this existing one, in this opinion, has yielded results. Then why do we need a new economic recovery plan, when we have results from this, because, as it is said, more savings for citizens, the reference rate has been reduced, etc. Since we have already mentioned this reference interest rate, we have always pointed out in the SRS parliamentary group that the inadmissible height of the reference interest rate and, despite the fact that in the last few months it has been slightly reduced still represents one major burden in terms of crediting the economy, and what the SRS position is that such a reference interest rate serves exclusively the interests of foreign, or Western banks in their market of securities of value. These are some things and some macroeconomic playing that are inadmissible to us, and in particular we want to point out in time to the public that the amount of the planned VAT collection was planned, by rebalance of the budget back to last year, and that according to the data for this first half of the year, it was received on this basis by 9.1%) nominally less funds than in the same period last year. If the same VAT collection dynamic continues, along with an additional drop in imports and industrial production, it is clear that in September or October, a new budget rebalancing will be expected, which will be necessary to prevent the worst, and that is, Mrs Dragutinovic, the bankruptcy of the state. Hence, they worry about all the louder advocates of increasing VAT rates. There are even those who feel that we should do this according to the reputation of Croatia, where this rate is 24%, which, if it is true, and we must bear in mind that Croatia has practically already bankrupted as a state, this will only cause the liquidity of the level of economic activity to fall, thus speeding up the process of firing employees and reducing the amount of employees' earnings, as well as contributing to the fund for paid pensions, which is, in addition, the aim of the IMF, which the RS government is blindly holding in everything it does. Speaking of the IMF, they say in the government and the NBS they sleep peacefully because they meet all the IMF obligations, but I want you to know that in Serbia there are those who want to wake up citizens and this country from this ugly dream that lasts for nine years. You had, Mrs Dragutinovic, and concrete proposals by the SRS MPs, and regarding overcoming, i.e. easing the consequences of this policy, which is being led. We have proposed to you, we hope that for the sake of the well-being of the citizens and the state, you will accept the proposal to be significantly more serious in the future, more studioly approach credit arrangements with the Russian Federation. And what will make it much easier for you to fill your budget is a different way of taxing, in front of all the monopolies that were spoken of, and there is no need to repeat that it is "Delta Holding" and Miroslav Miskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27007	Mr. Milan Lapcevic, you have two minutes and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27008	I'll talk fast. Last year, when the campaign raged, the country's president said Serbia needs a new government run by a strong economic expert and will be the government of economic experts. In a year since these economic experts took office, Serbia is much worse than it was last year. There are increased excise duties on gasoline, cigarettes, beer. The consumer basket is up 15%, the price of gas by 60%, the prices of utility services are higher than 50%, the prices of fixed telephony impulses are 100% higher, so the question is, to colleagues from the PUPS parliamentary group, do they live better today than they did last year when they had nominally less pensions and far less life costs than they do today? Today in Serbia, more and more are growing except for the government that is costing enormously. Production is less by 20% than it was last year, 60,000 companies are in a blockade, 24 thousand more than last year, over 100,000 people are out of work, angry strikes across Serbia, and ministers act as bank agents and go after local self-government, pushing these same local self-governments and their public enterprises to take loans from the same foreign banks. The government only acts as a consumer, when money is missing, then it goes into new loans, not thinking about who and how it will repay these same loans. Production doesn't exist, and we get into new loans every time. If production is smaller, if the number of employees is getting smaller and smaller, show me the reason why we should continue to be in debt and by covering the budget deficit, and you have not reduced public spending, nor have you reduced the number of employees in the state administration. In this way, the state can only go bankrupt, Mrs Dragutinovic, and you will be, regardless of how Serbia's citizens do not view you as directly responsible, the most responsible for such a situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27009	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Jorgovanka Tabakovic. The government and the Finance Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? Yeah. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27010	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today you have three laws before you whose least common possession is the borrowing of the state. Do I enjoy being in a position to defend a law that basically means increased government debt? Of course not, but not because behind that is some irrational reason, it's more of a matter of my nature and the time horizon I'm looking at. My time horizon is always a long time, which is normal if you have children. Are we an overindulgence state? Of course not. Because we're not an overindulgenced state, it gives us the opportunity to put ourselves in charge of the crisis, so we can part in better times, as we've done since 2001. Once again, I'd like to remind you of a few undisputed facts. It is indisputable that the debt of the Serbian state is 30% of the social product. It's not high, it's relatively low compared to the world. What's the problem? We have a second debt waiting for us, and that's the one that's going to happen when we adopt the law on restitution and that's what we need to think about. On the other hand, we have a high foreign debt or, say, at the border between the middle and the high-indebted country. However, I would like to remind you that, according to data for the first five months of 2009, Serbia's external responsibility has dropped. What actually happened? The private sector, primarily the company, has been disbursed by 650m euros. The state is in debt for 400m euros. The difference is the fall in external debt of 200 million. In doing so, I repeat, when I'm talking about the state's debt, this time I've taken into account a loan to the IMF. There are several reasons why the state is in debt and it's normal for the state to be in debt, because if it wasn't normal, there wouldn't even be a Public Debt Act and there wouldn't be others around us in debt. So all countries in the world are in debt for a number of important reasons: overcoming liquidity, financing deficits, refinance and large investment projects. For this reason, I would like to thank Mrs. Jorgenki Tabakovic for the amendment, which essentially specifies the reasons why the state is in charge. But do the conditions for obtaining the state's credit really speak so badly of the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, reputation is easily lost and hard to gain. Let's say, at the end of the 1970s and early 1980s, we compared ourselves, Mrs. Tabakovic, with completely different countries. At that time, our rapper was Spain, Portugal and Greece, today it is the countries of the Western Balkans. Today, these are some countries in Central Eastern Europe. Today, some of these countries are part of the EU, and I can tell you that the Republic of Serbia and the JP "The Roads" are in charge of better conditions, cheaper than the state of Romania is in debt, than the state of Bulgaria is in debt, than the Republic of Croatia is in debt. Someone asked us how we got into a situation to get in charge. The answer to the question is whether we're the only ones in charge. If there was no need for borrowing, there would be no need for the financial sector. The financial sector is now in place that someone, the population, the economy, and even the state, would be in charge. Since 2001, we've only paid back our debts. If someone asks how the privatisation money was spent, I can make a table and give you right in the dinar or in the euro. But, roughestly, it was spent on repaying earlier debts that were not formal debts, the state did not admit that it was in debt as this state admits, but did not regularly pay off its liabilities, which is also a debt. So it wasn't a long deura like this or the ones we're talking about today, but it was a long de facto. What we brought back from the privatisation revenue check, it wasn't small amounts. I'll just remember a few things. So it was a debt to the pensioners, old, big and small. So pensioners from the fund that covers employed pensioners, it was a debt to farmers, it was all unregulated debts, but de facto debts, and if the state wants to build credibility, it has to pay back those debts. It was also a debt to the pensioners of farmers, it was a debt to the users of the child's allowance, it was a debt to pay off the old foreign exchange savings which, behold, disappeared, it was a debt to pay off the loan for the rebirth of Serbia, which was also spent and, in addition, it was a debt to the Paris and London Club of Trustees. So, for the repayment of these debts, as the DSS MPs well noted before the time, as was not only a debt to the IMF but also a debt to the World Bank, means to repay debts and plus to the undeniable deficit that the Republic of Serbia has had in the last three or four years. On average, he was two and a half percent of the social product. Mrs. Tabakovic, as much as I love your amendments that insist on good language and precision, that's how I occasionally feel about your comments. One of these comments is that the crisis did not affect the state of public finances. It wasn't the reason I brought "Economist" here today, and I know you're all reading "Economist," but it wouldn't be bad to see the crisis affecting the state of public finances in all the countries of the world. Mrs. Jorgenka, the crisis is affecting the state of public finances and in Brazil which, I have fully agreed with your words, is running a school, teaching macroeconomic policy. So, the deficit of public finances recorded in Brazil, very high interest rates, we can also talk about this, the decline in social product and the decline in industrial production. So, I don't think it's right to say that when it happens, I won't say Armageddon, when this crisis is global, when the global demand falls, when this economy of 18% of the pay deficit, adapts in less than half a year to, say, 10% of the balance of payments deficits, imports fall, domestic demand falls, and anything that brings revenues to public finances, it's not fair to say that it has nothing to do with the state of public finances. What you've all taught me here, even though I thought I've been a good student my whole life, this is a lesson that stands for me here and I thank you for it, makes me stronger, which is – whatever you do, you always make a mistake. That's just impossible. Even when someone has a bad intention and very often does something bad, there's a folk, and a dead end stabs a few grains. No, whatever we did was wrong. I tried to explain it to myself in a rational way, and then I realized that it was actually best to have a restrictive, as most of us say, cheap fiscal policy, excuse the cheap state, then that means it's terribly unpopular. Strong fiscal policy and a cheap state mean very little government participation in public spending, or it means a large share of public spending and high tax. So if I wanted to have a very restrictive fiscal policy right now, I would have to increase tax rates and reduce public spending. When you reduce public spending, you draw on the anger of 9,500 budget users, 145 municipalities, president of local communities, pensioners, employees and get some, conditionally mild commendation of the professional public, with an estimate – well, public spending has fallen, but this is not significant, no matter how much it has fallen. On the other hand, when you increase tax rates, perhaps even argued, everyone against you, even those who use, on the basis of increased funds, those funds – so against tax rates is literally everyone. When you want to ease increased debt, also when the state is in debt against everyone. I don't know if I'm Pinocchio, I guess you didn't think of me, and as far as knowledge goes, somewhere I think a man is learning while he's alive and that knowledge, as well as body, is getting old. You have repeatedly criticised monetary policy today. I'm the finance minister and maybe I shouldn't say my view of monetary policy, but since somehow during that period I was a vice governor of the NBS, I feel called. I'd remind myself that, I'm sorry I may have misunderstood, but the way you presented what monetary policy should be – the complete control of all cash flows and foreign exchange markets, and monetary policy in the production function, I would remind you that such monetary policy was led before 2000. So it's run in a second period of time, I hope that no one around us has forgotten the macroeconomic consequences and should forget. You see, there's one simple rule that says -- if you have one goal, that one goal can only be used by one means, and if you have more goals you have to use more resources and you always use the means that gives the best effects on the given goal. When it comes to monetary policy, the current state of affairs is that monetary policy mainly focuses mainly on price stability. That's what all the central banks laws in the world talk about. There is only one state that uses monetary policy for something called minimising the unemployment rate. All other countries in the world use monetary policy in the function of price stability or fighting inflation. What was monetary policy like? You can say that the course has been overstretched, that it has caused economic damage and that it is certain that the exporters are not responding to a course that is being apressive. However, I just want to remind you that the result of such a monetary policy, which was too firm, is a little later I will explain why it had to be too firm, is that despite everything -- the financial sector in Serbia is stable. Despite its disappearance overnight, it was not taken out of the country, but it is from the banking sector, foreign savings were transferred from savings accounts to safes at the same banks – it was a real life, from the banking sector, no bank was bankrupt. Look in the environment as much as there was bankruptcy. It is normal to conduct a restrictive monetary policy under the conditions of building credibility, while a restrictive monetary policy is high interest rates and high minimum reserve rates. There are no other instruments of monetary policy. When we talk about monetarys, we're talking about these two instruments. The minimum reserve is mostly abandoned and there is only an interest rate. Why is such a monetary policy being run? To convince the public, the population, the entities, the financial market, that you decided to be credible. The loss of NBS was mostly accounting, and I know you know it well. But what was the alternative -- that the NBS has a loss, which in translation means that taxpayers pay for stability or inflation is bigger, so that taxpayers, because inflation is also tax, pay for instability. It's hard to find a country that didn't have high costs to build credibility. None of them gave up the goal of having a higher profit than the central financial institution, which is the central bank. In that country you praise so much, which is Brazil, I support you in that, but I add that some other Latin American states, such as Chile, and in recent times Peru, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Israel earlier, check whether the central banks were institutions that had high profits or had losses. So, the capital of the Czech Central Bank, which is the notion of a stable state, is negative, because in a long series of years, the central bank of the Czech Republic has lost. So no superior solution was found. Where'd the foreign reserve go? I think, Mr. Radulovich, you asked me that question. I have to tell you they're not missing. You may think the foreign reserves are down, I'll tell you the reason where they are, but they're not gone. Under one, as I said, since October, less than a month ago, the banking sector has gone, either to the straw or to the safes of more than 1.2 billion euros. That could explain part of the foreign reserve crash. Fortunately, as a result of a stable financial system and some of the laws passed by this assembly, the foreign currency savings are returning from the straws, from the safes again to the banking system. According to the latest data, I think about 400m euros has already been returned. Another big thing I'd remind you of, and I'm protecting you from forgetting, or maybe you haven't noticed. So in that part of the year, it was October or maybe something before that, there were really psychological factors behind the course movement. To stabilise the foreign exchange market, the National Bank of Serbia has brought on several occasions a very important measure, which is often forgotten, which is that banks are obliged to hold foreign reserves, a mandatory reserve in the foreign currency sign, but that it should not be whole in the foreign currency sign, but let's say that 40% is in the dinars and 60% in the exchanges. That way, what happened? The banks practically withdrew what they used to be foreign exchange reserves, and put dinars in the central bank. What happened? The repo stock is down, and on the other hand the foreign exchange reserves of business banks have increased. The money didn't go anywhere, he stayed in the system. The interest rate; Mr. Radical Party MP wanted me as finance minister to support the law that banks in our market will grant loans under the same conditions under which they approve in their countries of queens. You see, there are rules here, and the rule is that the interest rate is the price, the price as well as any other, and that, like any other price, it is determined on the market. It is the result mostly, in addition to other reasons, but mostly offers and requests. In conditions where demand is so much higher than supply, it is clear that the price is then higher. Mr. Nikolic of the DSS, for who knows which time, I don't know if he's present, I don't think he's, pointing to mine, let's say responsibility when it comes to assessing the social product. I think I've said more than once that I haven't made a projection, or the Ministry of Finance, of a social product. Why? Because I think that's what a profession should do, and because it's what institutions should do, a large number of people, based on a large number of time series. Since I haven't made those projections, I can't feel responsible for them, and I know very well that nothing is safe in the economy and that you can never predict well. I would remind you of the projections we took over as the Ministry of Finance, so we weren't authors, and I've said that many times, we've taken over the projections of serious institutions. The same institution said in July 2008 that Serbia will have a growth rate of 5% in 2009 to say in July 2009 it will be minus 4%. So these aren't mine, and they're not talking about my expertise, they're taking over projections. Otherwise, astonishing the political dimension, I would prefer for the public, but also for me personally, that MP Nikolic share with us, based on which time series and techniques have come to the conclusion that the decline of the social product will be minus 7%. Also, someone tried to twist or not well, I have to admit that I haven't read, I like to say - I defend myself by reading, because I often get hit by articles written in the media. So, I'd like to say what I really said, I guess those were my words spoken at the press conference. I said literally this - that in 2009, the GDP grew at not 5%, but at a rate of 3%, and that public spending is what we planned for this rebalancing for 2009, so that the budget of the Republic of Serbia would then be balanced. That's what I'm behind. It's a very simple calculation. Finally, perhaps a few words, and they are related to the current government and the government of Mr. Kostunica. In terms of how much this country is now and how much it cost while the prime minister was Mr. Kostunica, unfortunately costs the same, costs the same in terms of public spending in the social product. I'd like to point out once again that all your criticisms are fine in isolation. It's right that those who say this country is in debt, that it's better not to be in debt. It's okay and he's right. Better not to be in charge than to be in charge. It's right for those who say it's good to have low tax rates. It is right that those who say that the state is expensive and it is right that the state expects it to provide decent age to everyone, to have a modern army, to have free education, to have health care at its disposal, to hire, to provide a decent standard of living. You're about to be wrong if you're looking for it at the same time.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-29-0.u27011	I thank Mrs. Minister Diana Dragutinovic. Before I conclude the search, allow me for the MPs who have applied after the proposal's closing statement to remind you of Article 144, which says - when the draft law is completed in particular, the right to the final word shall be given by the Proposer, or by an authorised representative. So, according to that, there's no basis for replication. I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Gentlemen, the seven-eight of you have applied, we have indeed completed the debate, according to Article 144, and the minister has also spoken and that is something that is common practice. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I would ask the heads of the parliamentary groups to gather in my cabinet to arrange a little after the completion, I would say, a successful and legislative and all other forms of work in parliament for the past year, on our further plans for work. I would also like to express my gratitude to all MPs, all members of the professional services, or those employed in the Assembly, our associates with RTS for the co-operation that has been mostly correct all this time and with a result that justifies the claim that the Assembly has done an extremely delicate, complex and quality job. I would also like to inform you that you will be informed of my decision on the day of the vote and I would like to wish that after this work, which has indeed been exhausted, difficult, or exhausting, we all rest. On the day of the vote, then, we will arrange for you to be informed in good time. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to greet you. We continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 210 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The application of the electronic system has shown that 171 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 126 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I am reporting under Article 120 paragraph 3.) We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Public Information Law (Dragan Todorovic, from the place: When to report when to vote? I have the right under Article 120.) In voting day, we can only plead. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know the Rules of Procedure well. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: I have the right to propose a way of voting. ( ) Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. (Dragan Todorovic, from the scene: What does this look like? You're ashamed of the way you're holding the session. ) Please, we express ourselves on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Information Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. (Dragan Todorovic, from the post: This is not the Galenike Management Board, to conduct the session. Mr. Todorovic, I'll give you a measure. Please, don't interfere with the work. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Information Act, in principle. For 125, of the 249 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that it is the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment by Parliamentarian Jelena Trivan to article 4, with correction, and that MP Djura Muchenski withdrew the amendment to Article 2. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The first amendment was submitted by Marina Ragus, Aleksandra Jankovic, Mico Rogovic and Vladan Batic. For 79, of the 249 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. For 127, of the 249 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 48 of the 249 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milos Aligrudic, Jovan Palalić, Milos Radulović, Miroslav Petkovic, Zoran Shami, Željko Tomic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Zoran Nikolic, Vladimir Milentijevic and Aleksandar Pejčić. For 92, of the 249 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, of the 249 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. For 125, of the 248 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 248 MPs, 48 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Gojko Radic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 248 MPs, 43 MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Of the 248 MPs, 39 MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marina Toman. I'd like you to make a statement about Mrs. Tomman's amendment. Of the 249 MPs, 198. The amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Slobodan Samardzic, Jovan Palalić, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudić, Milos Radulović, Milica Vojić-Markovic, Zoran Nikolic, Vladimir Milentjevic, Zeljko Tomic, Donka Banović, Milan Lapčević and Zoran Shami together submitted the 2nd amendment. Of the 248 ambassadors, 91 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 249 MPs, 84 MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 249 ambassadors, three MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Shami, Radojko Obradović, Slobodan Samardžić, Jovan Palalić, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulović, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milos Aligrudić, Zoran Nikolic, Vladimir Milentijevic, Zeljko Tomić, Donka Banović and Milan Lapčević. Of the 229 ambassadors, 85 MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MP Jorvanka Tabakovic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 3a. Of the 229 MPs, 28 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Jorvanka Tabakovic and Vladan Batic. Of the 228 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th Amendment was filed by the Government. I ask you to plead with me on the amendment to the government. Of the 228 MPs, 126 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Milos Radulović, Zoran Shami, Željko Tomic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milica Radović, Vladimir Milentijevic and Aleksandar Pejčić submitted to the 4th amendment. Of the 228 ambassadors, 71 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Aleksandra Jankovic. Of the 228 ambassadors, 83 MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Maric. Of the 229 MPs, 67 MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Boris Aleksic. Please state Mr. Alexic's amendment. Of the 228 ambassadors, 71 voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 4th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic. Of the 228 ambassadors, 79 MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mirovic. Of the 228 ambassadors, 81 MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Jankovic, Otto Kismarton, Vladan Batic and Vladan Jeremic. Of the 228 ambassadors, 27 MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the Government. Of the 228 ambassadors, 125 MPs voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radojko Obradović, Zoran Šami, Nikola Lazić, Milan Lapčević, Milos Aligrudić, Dragan Šormaz, Svetlana Stojanović, Željko Tomic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Markovic and Vladimir Milentjevic. Of the 228 ambassadors, 59 MPs voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Zoran Antić, Vladan Batić, Vjerica Rade, Aleksandar Jankovic and together Željko Tomic, Jovan Palalić, Milos Radulović, Miroslav Petkovic, Milica Vojić-Marković, Zoran Nikolic, Milos Aligrudić, Vladimir Milentjevic, Aleksandar Pejčić and Zoran Shami submitted the 6th amendment. Of the 228 MPs, for 81. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Government. Of the 228 MPs, 132 MPs voted in favour. This amendment to the government has been accepted. National MPs Aleksandra Janković, Vladan Batić, Zoran Krasic and together Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Aligrudić, Jovan Palalić, Milos Radulović, Zoran Šami, Željko Tomic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Milica Vojić-Marković, Milica Radović and Vladimir Milentjevic submitted the 7th amendment. Of the 228 MPs, 85 were declared. The amendment was not accepted. The Government has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Of the 228 MPs, 125 were declared. This amendment has been accepted. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladan Batic. Of the 228 MPs, two were declared. The amendment was not accepted. Dear People's MPs, I have been informed that by adopting amendments to Marine Toman's National MP to Article 2. The draft law created the need to implement a legal-technical editorial of the text of the bill before the adoption of the draft law in general, in accordance with Article 146(4) of the Law. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary that the Legislative Committee, in co-operation with the legislator, carry out a legal and technical redistribution of the text of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information. I therefore set a 30-minute break in order to meet the Legislative Committee and carry out the necessary legal and technical order of text. Thank you. We'll continue at 13.00 hours.
