ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14644	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, at the beginning of this united debate on the laws on the validation of conventions, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and prepared by the Ministry of Justice, I would like to highlight their importance in the EU accession process, harmonisation of the rules with EU rules, and especially their importance for the abolition of visas for Serbian citizens for EU countries. With regard to the draft laws confirming international conventions at the beginning, I would like to present a proposal for a law confirming the Convention on High-Technology Crime and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Convention on High-Technological Crime relating to the penalisation of acts of racism and xenophobia committed through computer systems. The Convention aims to prevent works directed against confidentiality, integrity and availability of computer systems, networks and computer data, as well as to prevent the abuse of these systems, networks and data by providing effective measures for the detection and prosecution of such criminal acts, both internally and internationally. The Convention has triple orientation: bringing national legislation and incrimination into the area of high-tech crime, allowing authorities to access data from communication funds to investigate and seek evidence, developing international co-operation mechanisms in the fight against high-tech crime. As regards the above, the Convention allows competent authorities to collect, in real time, data relating to exchanges and to intercept content-related data, forcing those providing Internet services to assist them. In that regard, the Convention also takes into account the existing Conventions of the Council of Europe in the area of criminal policy, as well as similar agreements between the Member States of the Council of Europe and other States, stressing that the purpose of this Convention is to supplement these Conventions in order to make the investigation and procedures concerning criminal offences relating to computer systems and data more effective and to enable the collection of data and evidence for those acts in electronic form. The Convention stresses the need to ensure a proper balance between the need for law enforcement and respect for fundamental human rights contained in the 1966 UN Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the 1950s, the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights of the UN, as well as other international conventions on human rights. Serbia-Montenegro signed the Convention on High Technology Crime at the Conference of European Ministers of Justice, held in Helsinki on 7-8 April 2005, and therefore it is necessary, in accordance with its constitutional powers, to pass a law on the approval of this Convention. So far, the Convention has been confirmed by 23 and signed by 23 other Member States. An additional protocol to the Convention on High-Technology Crime related to the punishment of acts of racism and xenophobia made through computer systems has been brought forward as a result of government concerns over the risk of misuse or non-intentional use of computer systems for the spread of part of racist and xenophobic nature, which is why it foresees the punishment of acts of racist and xenophobic content through computer systems. In this respect, the Protocol particularly emphasises the establishment of a balance between freedom of expression and an effective fight against acts of racist and xenophobic nature and points out that it is not designed to compromise the established principles relating to freedom of expression in national legal systems. Serbia-Montenegro signed the protocol at the Conference of European Justice Ministers held in Helsinki on 7-8 April 2005, and therefore it is necessary, in accordance with its constitutional powers, to pass a law confirming the Additional Protocol. The additional protocol has so far confirmed 13 and has been signed by 21 other Member States. I would now like to make the most important remarks on the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings. The Convention aims to prevent and curb human trafficking, guarantee gender equality, protect human rights victims of human trafficking, develop a comprehensive framework to protect and help victims and witnesses, ensure effective investigations and prosecution and improve international co-operation in combating human trafficking. (President: Gentlemen of the Parliament, I would ask you to allow us to hear Mrs. Minister. ) The Convention should apply to all forms of human trafficking, both national and international, whether or not it is related to organised crime. In that regard, the Convention also takes into account existing Council of Europe conventions in the area of criminal policy, similar agreements between the Member States of the Council of Europe and other countries, as well as other international legal instruments relating to the area of combating human trafficking, and in particular the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the 1950s and its Protocols, as well as the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its Protocol on the Prevention, Prevention and Penalty of Human Trade, in particular to Women and Children, and in order to provide better protection provided for by these acts and to improve their established standards. The Convention also takes into account the need to develop a comprehensive international legal instrument that would focus on human rights of victims of human trafficking and would establish a special monitoring mechanism. The Convention stipulates that the application of its provisions by Contracting Parties, and in particular the use of measures to protect and improve victims' rights, should be ensured without discrimination on any basis, such as gender, race, colour, language, religion, political or any other belief, national or social origin, membership of any national minority, property, birth or other status. Serbia-Montenegro signed the Convention of the Council of Europe on the fight against human trafficking at the Third Summit of Heads of State and Governments of the Council of Europe, held in Warsaw on 16 May 2005, and it is therefore necessary to pass a law confirming the Convention. The Convention has so far been confirmed by 20 and signed by 20 other Member States. Now I would like to give a brief explanation on the proposal for a law on the validation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The Convention aims to strengthen the efforts of foreign parties to prevent terrorism and its negative consequences for the full enjoyment of human rights, in particular the right to live, and through measures to be taken at national level and through international co-operation, with due regard to applicable multilateral or bilateral agreements or agreements between parties. The Convention strengthens the need to strengthen the fight against terrorism and confirms that all measures taken to prevent or combat acts of terrorism must respect the rule of law and democratic values, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as other provisions of international law, including, where applicable, international humanitarian law. The Convention recalls that terrorist acts have, in their nature or context, the intention to seriously intimidate the population or, contrary to laws and regulations, force the government or international organisation to take action or refrain from taking action or seriously destabilising or destroying the basic political, constitutional, economic or social structures of the country or international organisation. This Convention, together with other international legal acts, is of the importance of curbing terrorism and creating conditions for even stronger and more effective co-operation between countries in order to prevent terrorist acts, as well as criminal prosecution, or the punishment of perpetrators of these crimes, which will contribute to better protection against terrorism. In that regard, the Convention also takes into account existing Council of Europe conventions in the area of criminal policy, similar agreements between the Member States of the Council of Europe and other countries, as well as other international legal instruments relating to the area of terrorism control, as well as UN conventions. This Convention also complements applicable multilateral or bilateral agreements or agreements between parties to Contracting Parties, including provisions of the following Treatys of the Council of Europe: European Conventions on Extradition, European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, Second Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters and Protocol with the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Serbia-Montenegro signed a convention of the Council of Europe on the prevention of terrorism at the Third Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Member States of the Council of Europe, held in Warsaw on 16 May 2005. The Convention has so far been confirmed by 17 and signed by 26 other Member States. Now, I would like to give a brief explanation regarding the proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act under the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. That protocol came as a result of the need of contracting countries to strengthen the fight against terrorism, while respecting human rights, taking into account human rights guidelines and the fight against terrorism adopted by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers on 11 July 2002. The Parties also felt the need to be realistic and pragmatic in order to avoid repeating and overlapping the content of the Convention with the content of other international instruments and activities in international forums. States Parties particularly wanted to strengthen the role of the Convention as an instrument aimed at allowing the extradition of terrorists through the depolitisation of criminal acts of terrorism. Serbia-Montenegro signed the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism in Strasbourg on 15 May 2003. So far, the Convention has been confirmed by 28 and signed by 18 other Member States. Finally, I would like to make a few notes on the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime and on the financing of terrorism. The Convention aims to prevent acts of money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as other forms of crime, by confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by the execution of criminal acts both internally and internationally. The Convention has a three-way focus on: harmonising national legislation and incrimination in the area of money laundering and financing terrorism, enabling authorities to access banking data to investigate and seek evidence and develop international co-operation mechanisms in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. As regards the above, the Convention allows the competent authorities to seek, trace, identify, freeze, confiscate and confiscate property, legal or illegal origin, which has been used or intended to be used, in general or in part, for the financing of terrorism, or income obtained through this criminal act and to ensure broadest possible co-operation to that end. In that regard, the Convention also takes into account the existing Council of Europe conventions in the area of criminal policy, as well as similar agreements between the Member States of the Council of Europe and other countries, in particular the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Laundering, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of income obtained by crime from 1990, stressing that the purpose of the Convention is to supplement those conventions in order to strengthen preventive measures on the plan to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and to make investigations and procedures concerning those offences more effective and to enable evidence to be collected for those acts. Serbia-Montenegro signed the said 2005 convention in Warsaw. The Convention has so far been confirmed by 11 and signed by 20 other Member States. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and to express hope that after the debate, the proposed laws will be adopted, which will create conditions, above all, for putting the Republic of Serbia on the white Schengen list, and also create a normative framework for the more effective control of all forms of crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14645	Thank you, Madam Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the committees in charge want a word: the Committee on Justice and Administration, MP Mr Bosko Ristic, Committee President; the Committee on European Integration, MP Laslo Varga, Committee President and Legislative Committee President, MP Vlatko Ratkovic, Committee President? No, I don't. ) Did the MPs Gordana Pop-Lazic, Sreto Peric, Petar Jojic and Boris Aleksic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Legislative Committee on the Review of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on High-Technological Crime, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, Seeking, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol on High-Technological Crime with the Convention on the Incrimination of the Work of the Rastistic and Xenophobic Nature Done Through Computer Systems, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention against Human Trade, the Proposal of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism and the Law on the Prevention of Terrorism of terrorism, want a word? The word is Mr. Sreto Peric, then Boris Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14646	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Minister, the reasons for issuing an opinion on the Legislative Committee have been motivated threefold. First, there was no question on the Legislative Committee about why laws on these conventions are now being passed. The second reason is that each of these laws, in its reasoning, states that the financial resources needed to implement this law are not necessary. I'll tell you what's controversial about it. The third reason is that even Mrs. Minister, explaining the draft of these laws, did not say why these laws are only now on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday it was not disputed to make a decision on the merger of the debate, related to seven draft laws, and that is not the problem, and are you wondering how they bring Serbia's citizens to an end? Is that what you're thinking? These conventions, i.e. the laws on the validation of these conventions, should have been on the agenda of this Parliament much earlier. Some of these conventions were made exactly eight years ago. The state of Serbia needs to address these problems provided for in these conventions, and our current constitution has established a great commitment on these issues which are subject to these laws. To illustrate a concrete example why these conventions should have been confirmed earlier: The Convention on High-Technological Crime was adopted in Budapest on 23 November 2001, so eight years ago. This looks a little bit like when we were in 2005, I don't know if I made it a year, in August of adopting the Law on Public Skiing, and we didn't discuss extremely high temperatures, or the need for the government to intervene on this issue. Today, when we have a lot of financial problems, when Serbian citizens are barely putting an end to the end and they don't have the opportunity to sit down at night and decide how to merge, as you did yesterday, and to overcome their financial problems, we don't speak a single word of it. The second reason for the exclusion of opinion is because you say that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's not true. This law itself requires some means: printing, the time that MPs spend to consider these laws. If we want to implement these conventions, then we need certain resources and don't insult the intelligence of the MPs and citizens of Serbia that this will in itself be resolved. After the adoption of these conventions, it is necessary to establish a series of bodies, activities and to make amendments to a number of applicable legal provisions in order to make these conventions meaningful and meaningful after adoption. The big problem is that you from the congregation majority are only here to vote on certain legal proposals in the voting day, and the government is there to provide for yourself some financial benefit. I cannot accept that one of the ministers, the vice-president of the government, who in a very short time provided more than 11m euros on his account, says -- let's go, push out, push out, box. They ski, they crash, and they don't solve citizens' problems. I especially want to talk about the draft law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against human trafficking. You have knowingly left this out, if this law had been adopted earlier, because if the issue of responsibility of Albanian terrorists engaged in trafficking to human organs, then the question would be whether such a number of EU member states and other countries would have made a decision to recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence and Metohija? (President: Mr. Perry, thank you. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14647	National MP Boris Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have singled out my opinion, above all, on the proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. As you know, terrorism is an international phenomenon, so the most common term of international terrorism is used. Yesterday we talked about having great experience in the fight against terrorism, we cited relevant documents and our state, including the US, Commission report 9:11 formed to investigate the details that led to terrorist attacks on the United States, which said that two main organisers of terrorist attacks on New York and Washington Muhammad Ata and Hali Sheikh Muhammad were trained and participated in the fight against Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and BiH. We also have a lot of examples from our practice, published by our country, and related to information from the Serbian government and the "white book" published by the Serbian government about terrorists in 2003. You were in power back then. Here's the problem with this Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. I ask the question, how do you think you are fighting terrorism when it is known that terrorism is supported by a number of foreign services, including regional countries, and when it is known that Dragan Filipovic, once a third man of state security resolution and the BIA, that the BIA intelligence administration does not exist in fact, i.e. Intelligence, if you can imagine, is not involved in intelligence. A person employed by the intelligence department doesn't have the authority of an official. So they can't legitimateize any face on the street, they can't bring him in for an informative conversation. What does this mean? This means that the proper service... You know there are very serious data that the German intelligence service BND sponsored terrorists in Kosovo and Metohija, trained by the US Central Intelligence Agency. All these services are engaged in intelligence, data collection, etc. BIA does not have that possibility, there is no possibility of acting abroad, of border action and of gathering information, and, as I told you, terrorism is, above all, an international phenomenon, it is international terrorism. Look at the other thing about human trafficking. You are now confirming something that was supposed to be confirmed in 2000. Special Prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic provided information that the perpetrators of some of these crimes are in the process of identification. That man is not telling the truth. You have on the government site of the Republic of Serbia, your site, mentioned "white book" from 2003, which identifies, in good works, terrorists who commit crimes mentioned here. Take this special prosecutor seriously, teach him how to talk and apply, after all, the laws of the Republic of Serbia and carry out appropriate actions against terrorists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14649	Thank you. Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14650	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all members of the Legislative Committee members of the SRS Parliament Club have singled out their opinion on a set of draft laws on the validation of conventions, not to list them all, as regards terrorism, trafficking in human beings and high-tech crime, because the representative of the Ministry has not given us, above all, an adequate answer to what has been waiting so far and what has bothered this authority to call since 2000, since all these conventions have been signed long ago, to be in the form of a bill before some assembly? This is the third or fourth term since 2000, and only today has someone realized that these conventions should be confirmed in this way. It seems to us, or we have come to the conclusion that the government has avoided its obligations to impose these laws on certain state authorities. So, it shuddered before learning about the various terrorist groups that exist in Kosovo and Metohija, waiting for the moment for Kosovo to move further and for the Serbian state's authority to grow smaller, so as not to deal with those that even Americans once called a terrorist organisation. To have the opportunity to say this, today when these laws are on the agenda, as a condition for white Schengen, I want to bring this fact to the public, first of all, because it is constantly respecting Parliament or the SRS, first of all, to stop European integration and that this is why we are not still on the white Schengen list. Who has held this for all these years and has not allowed Parliament to pass adequate laws and get close to this Europe, to grant them mercy to be on that white Schengen list? Apparently, power. It's been known who's been in power since 2000. They force us to do all sorts of things, to make the forest of some laws, more or more unnecessary, mostly unnecessary, because they don't know, I told you yesterday, what our legislation is, and that we have gone much sooner and faster along the way that Europe is just now going, building into our legal acts a lot of things that they are just now installing. You see, yesterday, this anti-discrimination law was withdrawn, and I'm sure you also know that this Europe, which is forcing us to adopt that law, has discrimination and what kind of, let's say, happens that women in most European countries are 20 percent less paid than men working in the same workplace. You see what that is, how our people in the jargon would say "folling." We agree to that rather than say that our laws are already regulated. It's just that we need to apply these laws, not that what's happening to us right now -- that the judges make a decision, and immediately the next day, the Justice Minister starts an initiative for their shift. Because we interfere with another branch of government, which is why the executive government wants to have under its cap and legislative and judicial authority, which is why Europe will not. That's exactly why. It's your fault, and it's not your fault. After all, ask the people, all the research says that over 60, the latest surveys say 64%, respondents are not interested in this Europe, because in this sense and under these conditions we are neither desirable nor what good we can get from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14651	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Petar Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14652	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I have issued an opinion in relation to these conventions that were before the Legislative Committee, for the simple reason that I do not see Serbia benefiting greatly from these conventions. There are some regulations that should have been applied, and we have them. When it comes to the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, most of the provisions relating to these conventions have been regulated and regulated in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. I would especially like to express my dissatisfaction with these conventions, because I believe that priority should be given to the following laws: the agriculture law should have priority over these conventions that are proposed and adopted in the Republic of Serbia. The situation in the agrarian is extremely bad, never worse, never bigger robbery than there was in the agrarian. Nearly 50 billion dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget are not charged from renting state agricultural land. Who's to blame? Minister of Agriculture, particularly previous Minister Milosavljevic, who concluded in 2006, 2007 contracts to rent state agricultural land. You have a situation where an individual owes about a million euros to the state to rent agricultural land. That's your case in Banatski Brestovac, that's your case in the Kovin municipality. The pastures to the profiteers. They usurped large areas of pasture and state agricultural land, but they don't pay the state rent. This phenomenon in the agrarian is present throughout the Republic of Serbia. I say that the Republic's budget was denied by nearly 50 billion dinars when it came to the collection of funds from the profiteers, who even after counting and renting state land, refused to close the contracts, refused to close the settlements. It's in the municipality of Kovin, the municipality of Panchevo, in all of Vojvodina you have scandals like this. This thief and this insolence must be prevented. The most responsible is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all, the Ministry of Agriculture. The agriculture ministry is doing nothing to charge the chief and the interest, and to deposit usurpators who usurped state agricultural land. In the SRS' view, the priority should be laws, amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, then the adoption of a new law on litigation, the adoption of a new law on criminal proceedings, the adoption of a new law on executive proceedings, because, in fact, it is the protection of debtors and profiteers who do not pay certain amounts to the State. You have executive and judicial verdicts, a thousand convictions. Mr. Ratkovic knows that well, because he's a lawyer and he has knowledge of it. It is impossible to execute a judicial verdict, and a judicial verdict, gentlemen, is a law for a debtor. The debt lobby is protected because no new regulations are passed that need to introduce order in this area. Why is there no law, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, about foreign NGOs? As a special law, a law on foreign NGOs must be passed in order to prevent numerous abuses and failures in the country. They rule more than the government and other branches of government, as NGOs have been installed in all structures of social life. Therefore, the SRS considers it necessary to pass a new law, not to be a law on associations; in the EU there are, France, England, the Netherlands, Denmark, Britain and Ireland, not to list, specific laws on foreign NGOs. This is because a number of NGOs have turned into profit-making organisations. No one controls them, and they want to rule and be a parallel government in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14653	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. National MPs Mr. Momir Markovic, Mrs. Radica Jocic and Sladjan Mijaljević have issued their opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integrations when considering the Bill on Confirmation of the Convention on High-Technological Crime, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Seeking, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime and on the financing of terrorism, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Convention on High-Technological Crime relating to the Incrimination of the Part of the racist and xenophobic Nature committed through computer systems, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Amendments of the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism of Terrorism. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) Mr. Momir Markovic, then Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14654	Madam President, it would be simpler for you to say that I have not issued an opinion on the point of view, because I have, by all points, singled out my opinion on the Committee on European Integration. I believe these laws are in many ways unsettled. First of all, I want to apologize to the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia for yesterday's remarks, when I said that Mrs Kolundjia had graduated from the Faculty of Political Sciences and that the logic of the foundation is almost all the items that are subject to the Faculty of Political Sciences. Now, since this second proposal for a merger of her proposal, I have found that she may have been sick when that part was being taught, so logic is not exactly her strong suit, especially when this is how the agenda points are combined. Let's move on to what made us SRS MPs stand out on committees. There's so much illogicality in these laws. Let's get this straight, because my time is going fast, and I only have five minutes thanks to this restrictive Rules of Procedure. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on High-Technological Crime. Europe is forcing us to sanction high-tech crime by adopting this convention. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the technological and high-tech crime in Serbia is greatly reigning. To remind you that there is a patent office, where about every inventor, every innovator, every rationalizer has to report that patent and pay a certain fee, which, by the way, we've raised drastically recently when we adopted those taxes, so that rationalisers and inventors come into a situation that they can't finance their patents. Just one piece of information, and when we talk about it in the principle of these laws and concrete evidence: our man has found a way for you to pay for the phone at the kiosk. This was brutally stolen, his patent was taken from him, and today, with these patents and large funds that are thus being used by other people. Under four, a bill confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime and the financing of terrorism. This part here is incompatible with the financing of terrorism, because we have a situation right here in the government, right in the ruling set, that people have been fiercely involved in crime. To remind you, there is one that has earned 11m euros in two years; there is one that still has broken cups, and does not know how much money it has. When we come into a situation to regulate our legislation legally under these conventions, many ministers will remain mere poor. Point 6 – Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, books are coming out today, these days, books are coming out these months, where they unequivocally confirm that these are the same Europeans, because they bombed the state of Serbia in a set of 19 countries, they helped the Shiptars down in various Albanian hospitals, in various Macedonian hospitals, in various hospitals in Kosovo and Metohija, and now probably in Bondsteel, traded the organs of people who were kidnapped, Serbs who were kidnapped in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Will you, by adopting this Convention, raise that question and bring it to an end? Running doesn't mean anything. There's a lot of things running from this pay phone, so you didn't get to the bottom of it. Many criminals are still considered respected deputies, assistants, and even ministers today. Point 8 — Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Amendments to the European Convention on the control of terrorism. This very Europe that offers us this convention during the war, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, has funded... (President: I thank you, Mr Markovic. If I can just finish the sentence. (President: sentence, of course. He can't, I'm sorry, then. I'm sorry for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14655	For the sake of the public, the information is real for the sake of it, I said, "Sure, finish the sentence." Mr. Markovic listens only to himself, he won't listen to me. The word is Mr. Sladjan Mijaljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14656	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, I have issued an opinion on the set of these laws, especially regarding the laws relating to terrorism. The Serbian Radical Party, of course, is for all possible legal solutions, conventions and charters and makes every effort to make every legal solution better and better. We are proving this by a truly huge amount of very high-quality amendments that we are trying to encourage the ruling majority in some way, in addition to putting these amendments into laws or proposed legislative solutions, these laws finally begin and implement. I draw an opinion for a principled reason, because this is another of the many sets of laws that are passed in this assembly, but are not in practice applied. Of course, contradictions and absurdities are amazing. On the one hand, the EU and various international organisations via the Serbian government are trying to force and succeed, the government in the country of Serbia, thus harassing the Serbian Parliament, to pass countless laws, let's say, such as these four on terrorism. Yesterday there was one on the agenda, and today there are three on the agenda. Again, I ask the question I asked yesterday: how does the Serbian Government think he is implementing and who thinks he is implementing all these laws, international conventions, statutes and laws to prevent money laundering, preventing terrorism, etc.? With what organizations, not with NATO, not with the United States? All people who at least have the authority to deal with security or world security, who are analytically reading texts, come to the next conclusion, and this conclusion is indeed more than painful: just recently mentioned international organisations, on the one hand, bring laws and charters on paper, and on the other hand, encourage, finance and train various terrorist organisations on the ground. There are countless examples that we have had here, on our misfortune, and on our field, in the former SFRY and in the countries that have separated later. What did Richard Holbrooke and Paddy Ashdown do in Kosovo? Publicly speaking, Paddy Ashdown is an exponent of MI6. What are many terrorist organisations doing, such as the current Wahhabi in BiH or that region known as Bosnia and Herzegovina? What are they doing in Kosovo? What are they doing in Macedonia? What was the private organisation in Croatia doing in training, analysis, equipment of certain terrorist organisations, known as the NPRI, an American organization? How many of their instructors, highly trained special forces, are retired officers who are employed by them? How many of their instructors worked in Croatia? How many have arrested our security forces in Republika Srpska, the Republika Srpska Army? What did they do in 2001 in Aracinovo, Macedonia? When they were suppressed by the Macedonian state police special force, who pulled them off with those buses, allegedly to get away with civilians? Do you know how many instructors there were on those buses among alleged civilians? It's those countries and those institutions that make you bring these charters and laws, which will remain a dead letter on paper because you won't have anyone to conduct them, send those instructors there, cause crises, train these organizations, and when their instructors get through their ears, then send buses, talk about humanitarian disaster, so from Aracino, let's say, 150 terrorists get out of them and 17 instructors from their private company, or a company mask. How many instructors participated in Georgia in training the Georgian army for the genocide they committed against nations who did not want to live in the composition of the Georgian state? It's really countless questions, it's really countless indicators that they're playing with all of us. On the one hand, we're messing around here, we're making some charters, some laws, some conventions, and we can't carry them out, we can't carry them out because they don't want to. We can't execute them because our National Security Service can't do its job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14657	No more opinions. Among the presidents, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups first called Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic - LDP, then Mrs Elvira Kovac, and then Mr Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14658	Dear Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the government, the LDP will support this set of draft laws ratifying the conventions our country has signed. Is it necessary for Parliament and the state to do this job? Yes, it's necessary. In line with the EU accession strategy, this is contitio sini qua non of this job. We have before us proposals for laws on ratification of conventions containing in their name the words of high-tech crime, search, confiscation and confiscation of income obtained by crime, the Convention on High-Technology Crime, which refers to the incrimination of acts of racist and xenophobic nature, a convention that treats the fight against human trafficking, etc. All these conventions declare the highest standards of human rights protection, both personal and collective, and accordingly, LDP will without a doubt support these draft laws. That's what the Constitution obliges us to do. Yesterday I reminded me of Article 16 and Article 21. The Constitution. However, this definition and this attitude of LDP do not prevent us from asking the government and the ruling majority some questions concerning this very important job that this parliament is about to do. Does the government intend to ratify these conventions, so that it can be praised for doing this important job, or does it intend to carry them out? Why are we asking this question? Over the past few years, we have ratified dozens of conventions, and in practice there have been no regulations under which these conventions will be implemented. It is not enough just to apply the Constitution directly, or its Article 16, which I was just talking about, but to apply these conventions, there is also an accompanying legislation. It's not just our opinion, it's not just our attitude. In the last term, the Minister of Agriculture agreed with it, and then the Minister of Environment was on my note: "Is there any accompanying legislation?" he responded with his own head that the accompanying legislation does not exist and that the application of these conventions, with the best of will, is practically impossible. In line with this question I asked, I would refer to the strongest example, which is yesterday's event in the Assembly, when the government withdrew the draft law on the ban on discrimination. The question is: How will the Convention on High-Technological Crime affect the incrimination of the part of racist and xenophobic nature carried out through computer systems be applied without the existence of a law on the prohibition of discrimination? Does this mean that this convention will also be just a facade and that it will not be applied, even though it is ratified in this House? Accordingly, there is a question of what the government's plan is, as all these conventions point to the incriminating of certain acts. Will the Criminal Code and other laws concerning these issues be changed or will the ratification of this Convention be in such a state that they cannot be applied? Of course, the question that sublimes all other questions concerns a concrete event, but it is about everything I've talked about so far. What's going to happen in the next seven days? The government has informed us, as the law prohibiting discrimination has been withdrawn, that it will try to comply with the objections it has received, and that after that harmonisation it will be returned to parliament. If there is no consensus, it will be returned to parliament with unchanged text. First of all, I ask the question: who does this need to be brought into line with, who does this have to be consensual with? The law prohibiting discrimination, which requires the adoption of all conventions that this Parliament needs to ratify, is once again far from the public eye. Will the Government do this job transparently or will her work, as it has been so far, be done so that the ratification of this convention will be only a facade and not a essence? Of course, I would also ask Parliament's presidents: can MPs get the text of the letter received by the Government, see what the religious communities are looking for and what they don't like about the proposed law, as well as the conventions we are discussing today, so that MPs can discuss it in a competent manner? We have not received any detailed information about this letter, so we can ask ourselves the question – will the ratification of these conventions still be just a facade? In line with the LDP's definition that the speaker is the essence without being used at all costs for 20 minutes belonging to the authorised representative, I will complete my presentation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14659	The word has the mandated representative of Parliament's minority group Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14660	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak in front of the Minority Parliament Club and I will present the most views of the SVM. We from the SVM are very aware of the achievements in the areas of human and minority rights that the EU and humanity have come to, and we all strive towards them. We are in favour of the adoption of regulations, as well as the confirmation of various international agreements and acts, and all in order to ensure that our country's full membership in the EU is as soon as possible. As you have heard, I would like to clarify, for the sake of the public, that today, on the agenda of the National Assembly, there are seven draft laws on the validation of various international acts, mainly the Council of Europe. In fact, it is four conventions, two protocols and one agreement between our country and the Kingdom of Denmark. I planned to briefly explain what all these documents were about and why in the voting day SVM MPs and the Minority Parliament Club would vote for the adoption of the bill on validation. We are all very aware of the achievements that have brought digitalization and globalisation of computer networks. Unfortunately, however, we are all witnessing that computer networks and electronic information are also used in many cases to commit crimes. Objective of the first Convention on High-Technological Crime, so-called Cyber conventions, it is precisely preventing these acts against confidentiality, integrity and availability of computer systems networks and data, as well as preventing various abuses. The second document, which is actually a protocol, next to this convention, refers to the punishment of acts concerning racism and xenophobia done right through computer systems. He was brought here because of the great risk of abuse and unintended use of computer systems to spread a piece that, as I mentioned, concerns racism and xenophobia. So, this second document, the protocol, is an addition to the provisions of the Cyber Crime Convention and provides for criminal prosecution, or the punishment of those acts that are racist, xenophobic or similar, of acts related to such problems, which have been done right through the computer. This Protocol states that each Contracting State, each Member State which confirms it, should establish in its national legislation legislative and other measures in order to, as I have mentioned, prescribe these acts in domestic law as criminal when they are committed with intent. These are, for example, the spread of racist and xenophobic material, any, through computer systems; when in this way various threats, insults, denials, or obvious reduction, approval or justification of genocide or crimes against humanity are motivated, as well as aiding and incentivising the doing of these acts. It would mean, in fact, that the criminal act is considered all, any spread of written material, images or any other material, as well as the presentation of ideas, theories that advocate, promote and encourage any hatred, discrimination or violence against any person, individual, various groups, based on race, skin color, and, as far as we're concerned, national and ethnic origin, as well as religion. It therefore requires each Member State, and therefore our own, to provide in its national legislation for those actions as criminal offences and, of course, to punish them in an appropriate manner, which SVM certainly supports. The next convention on the agenda is the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Search, Confiscation and Subsistence of Crimeal Income and Financing of Terrorism. Its goal, of course – as we heard yesterday in the debate on a law dealing with similar topics, preventing money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as other forms of crime – is that income obtained from various criminal activities is simply taken away. This Convention states that the foreign Contracting Parties to which the certificates are to actually be found, identified, seized and certainly confiscated by all assets acquired by various criminal activities, which have been used or planned to be used for that purpose. Of course, countries that approach these conventions should speed up international co-operation on these objectives. The next convention, which is one of the most important, is the Council of Europe convention on human trafficking. If so, human trafficking represents the greatest violation of human rights and violation of the dignity of every human integrity. The aim of this Convention, adopted by the Council of Europe, is to reduce, if possible, the trafficking of people. Of course, what is always seeking is to protect human rights, provide all kinds of protection and assistance and victims of human trafficking, but also witnesses themselves, to ensure effective investigation and prosecution, as I reiterate international co-operation in this area. When a country confirms this Convention, it is necessary to establish effective measures and programmes to prevent human trafficking, such as research, but the most important thing is to inform and raise public awareness of this problem, education, various types of training, etc. I would stress as extremely important that it is proposed to set specific measures to reduce the exposure of young people, i.e. children to human trafficking, to adopt the various legal and other measures necessary to provide assistance to victims for their recovery and to ensure their continued safety, i.e. protection. This Council of Europe Convention on Human Trade proposes, which SVM certainly supports, the prosecution and punishment of trafficking in people with very high penalties, which are more effective, and, most importantly, penalties that will deter them from doing such actions. Next is the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Its goal is, as well as the objective of the terrorism prevention law itself, to step up efforts to prevent terrorism and its negative consequences for the enjoyment of basic human rights. In this case in our country, it is necessary to strengthen the public's awareness of the existence and seriousness of the threats posed by acts of terrorism. This Convention calls on all foreign Contracting Parties to take appropriate measures, and I, in particular, reiterate, in the areas of training, education, culture, information. The most important role of the media is to increase public awareness in order to prevent all acts of terrorism. In addition to this Convention, we will also confirm the protocol, which is an addendum and is in fact an amendment to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. It was brought in because of the need to strengthen the fight against terrorism, with respect for fundamental human rights. This additional protocol stipulates that Contracting States are obliged to write everything, attempt, complicity, organisation, execution and guidance of similar acts, as a criminal offence. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians considers that the first concrete step towards establishing our country's visa-free regime is to facilitate direct contacts between people, which is a very important condition for the permanent development of new types of relationships, such as economic, humanitarian, cultural, scientific, etc. As we all know, in order to liberalise the EU's visa regime towards our country's citizens, a single agreement with the EU on a simplified visa procedure came into effect early last 2008. In line with the provisions of the additional agreement, at the beginning of last year, our country, the Republic of Serbia has started activities to conclude bilateral agreements with several countries. There is now such a bilateral agreement on the agenda with the Kingdom of Denmark, and negotiations are under way with other European countries that do not actually apply the Schengen, i.e. not covered by the said agreement, which are Great Britain, Ireland, Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Switzerland. Since time still allows me a little bit more, I would like to express my personal great sadness that now when we talk about the draft laws on the validation of seven international conventions, protocols, various acts, on the one hand, we are still in a procedure without anti-discrimination laws, which we expect very soon. On the other hand, as a member of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, I must stress that we hope that as soon as possible, perhaps next week, we will talk about a very important international document which is revised by the European Social Charter. This is the basic document of the Council of Europe in the field of labour and social rights and, in fact, the most important document of this important institution, right after the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Confirmation of the revised European Social Charter also coincides with our obligation to comply with EU rules governing the area of social, labour and health protection. A report on the monitoring of the mission of the Council of Europe in 2008 indicated that this document, due to its very great importance in the area of human rights, should be confirmed among the first, priority. As I pointed out at the outset, the adoption of all these draft laws, i.e. the confirmation of all these international documents, conventions, protocols and this one bilateral agreement, will meet only part of the necessary conditions in the EU accession process, and therefore SVM MPs and the Minority Parliament Club will vote on these drafts in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14661	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr. Dejan Mirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14662	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, human rights are the basis of modern society, are a condition for civilised functioning of every state and modern society. In order to apply human rights in practice, it is necessary to apply literally basic conventions and protocols in this area. Therefore, it is not enough that conventions and protocols are only adopted by automation, without reading and understanding, to be applied in practice as stated in the text of the Convention or Protocol. This is especially true for this set of protocols and conventions that we are considering today. Each selective application inevitably leads to the abuse of these rights and to double standards that lead to, for example, the practice for Serbian citizens not being subject to certain human rights, but to citizens from the west. As for the concrete solutions of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on High-Technological Crime, which we are considering today, it is clear that this protocol provides answers to modern computer abuse and prevents propaganda aimed at potentiating inequality among nations. However, it is also important to point out that the protocol also insists on free expressions. I quote: "Freedom of expression is one of the most important fundamentals of democratic society, as well as one of the conditions for its progress. "The protocol also states that the need to ensure freedom of expression and the effective fight against acts of racist and xenophobic nature should be taken into account. It also states that this protocol should not affect freedom of expression in domestic legal systems. So, according to this protocol, freedom of expression is very important and no one has the right to restrict it or to interpret reasoned criticism as something that belongs to xenophobia and thus chokes freedom of expression. The next example shows what it might look like in our practice. For example, if an anti-Globalist economic organisation or institute publishes on its site that Austrian banks use Serbian citizens, it is freedom of expression based on true data and arguments rather than xenophobia, because, according to publicly available NBS data, Austrian banks own about 30% of the Serbian banking market. Bank interest in Serbia is known to be a Western European average. Similarly, if on the SRS site, say, Serbian citizens, as well as citizens of other Eastern European countries, are financed by the social peace in Austria and the well-being of Austrian citizens and are therefore poorer than they would be if there were no monopoly and interest-bearing behaviour of Austrian banks on the Serbian market... Because it is also known, according to publicly available data, that Austrian banks, based on a 230 billion-euro loan, draw huge profits from all over Eastern Europe, therefore, are worth about 70% of Austria's GDP. And it is also known, according to economic data, if the inflow of money from the poor countries of Eastern Europe were to cease, that the wealthy Austria would be bankrupt. When all this is considered, it is clear that Austria is using Serbian citizens and citizens of Eastern Europe through its banks and financial organisations to maintain social peace in Austria. In addition, EU Finance Commissioner Joaquin Almunio, who said, says, "We are all concerned about risks in countries such as Ukraine, Serbia, Croatia and Romania, as well as Austria. "It was also recognised by Austrian Finance Minister Josef Prel, who visited Ukraine, Romania and Bulgaria in early February for these reasons. In addition, data on the increase in the profit of Raiffeisen Bank in our country year by year, as well as the parallel data on the increasing borrowing of our citizens and our companies in the same period. When we analyse this example as part of the protocol that we are talking about today, this is more than true and not xenophobia, but falls under the freedom of expression guaranteed by the protocol that we are discussing today in a united debate. As for the additional protocol under consideration in the computer and internet areas, the proponent in the explanation requires that the protocol be adopted by an urgent procedure, although he admits a little earlier, also in the same explanation, that the protocol has not yet entered into force in the international sense because it has not been ratified by at least five states. As far as this is concerned, I believe that even the promoter will admit that the emergency procedure in this case is slightly inadequate, unless the promoter convinces us of the impossible, which is that our country is among the top five in Europe by the development of the Internet network. However, this is very far from true because, according to the 2007 World Economic Forum, many European countries are ahead of us and in this area, for example: Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, etc. A similar guarantee regarding freedom of expression as in the Additional Protocol is also in the preamble to the Convention on High-Technological Crime. Notwithstanding the fact that in the definitions used by this Convention, the emphasis is placed on the illegal interception of data and system interference, the abuse of devices, the fraud of computers and works related to copyright violations, however, the preamble of this Convention reiterates that the Member States of the Council of Europe, quote "the conscious need to ensure a proper balance between the need for law enforcement and respect for fundamental human rights". The European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950 and the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights of the UN of 1966 are then listed as two main sources in this area. Once again, as in the protocol, the right of each individual to his own opinion, without any external influence, as well as the right to freedom of expression, which includes freedom to seek, receive and share with others information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of borders. This convention today shows the importance of freedom of expression. It is free to say that it is the basic human right or the right guaranteed by Article 10. European Convention on Human Rights and Article 19 The International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, but certainly also the decades-long practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which guaranteed freedom of expression in many cases. For example, concerning the threatened rights of opposition politicians in Turkey, there are several rulings made earlier this decade, which guarantee these rights to Kurdish politicians, but also judgments guaranteeing opposition politicians in Spain the right to freedom of expression. In this context, the right to freedom of expression, which is guaranteed by the conventions and protocols that we are considering today, is more than a scandalous behaviour of the UN tribunal that tramples all known international conventions and practices of the European Court of Human Rights and tries to judge an opposition politician, such as Vojislav Seselj, precisely because of his statements, retroactively, with a delay of 10 years, as if he had no fundamental human right, the right to freedom of expression and to express his political and opposition opinion. Therefore, as part of the urgency of the procedure required for these conventions and protocols, it is incomprehensible that the authorities working with such an anti-civilisation tribunal are inconclusive and that justice in the words that we must respect international obligations, although it is clear that no international obligations can be more important than human rights. It's a principle that should be basically the work of every ministry, especially the Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the Protocol amending the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, it is obvious that they were brought under the influence of the 11 September 2001 event. The intention of the member states of the Council of Europe was to modernise and supplement the already slightly outdated European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism from 27 January 1977. However, in addition to the undoubtedly amended circumstances compared to that in 1977, the Protocol reiterates, as well as in previously discussed conventions and protocols, that human rights are not less important than the fight against terrorism, because, as it says in this Protocol, Member States want to strengthen the fight against terrorism, while respecting human rights and taking into account human rights guidelines and the fight against terrorism adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in July 2002. Of course, again and in this case, the urgency of the procedure referred to in the reasoning may be raised by the following question regarding the fact that the Amending Protocol has not yet entered into force in international law, as all parties have again failed to declare their agreement that they are bound by the Protocol. But that is already the problem of the mixed state priorities and policies of this government, which is trying in this agenda to hide what every citizen of our country knows – the fact that today for Serbia and its stability and its citizens, perhaps the greatest danger is the economic crisis; surely it is no less dangerous than terrorism. Besides, it's a global trend, even American executives admit it. For example, in his speech to both Houses of Congress at the end of January 2009, Barak Obama spoke first of all about the economic crisis and then terrorism and other topics. Also, why not say it openly, the main terrorists in the Balkans, Haradinaj, Thaci and others are currently not engaged in their basic work, terrorism, crime, organ trafficking, but are playing some intellectuals and politicians, all for the sake of building a quasi state of Kosovo on Serbian territory, with great economic assistance and advice from Brussels. In this regard, given this real state, the tragical appearance and the explanation of the motion for a bill confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings. In essence, it is proposed that the law be adopted by emergency procedure, as it is reportedly going to meet the necessary conditions in the EU accession process. When this is read the inevitable question – what are the European conditions in practice? Or did this terrorist group from Kosovo that runs the quasi-fits meet these European conditions by selling human organs and kidnapping people? Is that why they were rewarded by the arrival of the EU Mission to Kosovo? Is that why the EU announced a feasibility study for this quasi-state in autumn? The difference between practice and propaganda on so-called Brussels standards may indirectly mean that this convention, in Article 44 and Article 33, regulates territorial application only for Serbia and that is why it is in so-called ". The state of Kosovo is allowed to trade in human beings and is allowed to disappear. If not, and if so, so-called. The Brussels standards match, then the legislator should answer the direct question: will the corrupt and biased Brussels officials present in Kosovo and Metohija be subject to Article 21 of this Convention, which regulates criminal acts of assistance and incentives in connection with the criminal acts governed by this Convention? Please give me a clear answer to this question. Similar issues are also raised when the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism is analysed. Otherwise, it, as well as the above-mentioned conventions and protocols, once again guarantees freedom of expression, because its preamble says that it is not the purpose of the Convention to influence the already existing principles of freedom of expression. The convention then lists crimes such as abductions, bombings and terrorist financing. However, this latest crime once again points us to Brussels and there's corrupt officials, because there's no secret to who from the West, from EU countries, has been a sponsor of the terrorist KLA and its leaders for years. Also, in this real context, not this virtual, propaganda, Brussels, the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the financing of terrorism should also be observed, in particular Article 2. However, regardless of all these common facts and distances between practice and Brussels ideology, which is obviously dominant in our country, in the light of the proposal for a law on the Convention that regulates the prevention of terrorism, it is said that the law is proposed by an emergency procedure because this will create conditions for the EU and Brussels accession process, which just as we have seen, helps terrorists. This absurd is difficult to understand, but even more difficult to comment on. The only possible explanation is that it's so-called. Brussels ideology in our country has lost touch with real life and relationships in the world and in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the proposed conventions and protocols, it can be concluded that the proposed conventions and protocols are essentially inapplicable, because this authority has neither the courage nor the possibility to apply them to terrorists in Pristina and especially to their mentors and assistants in Brussels. Also, their adoption won't change anything that matters. The Brussels path of our country, because, as we have seen since the last EU extraordinary summit held in Brussels (which the Daily Telegraph since 3 March this year openly describes as a disaster), Eastern Europe is in big trouble, because Western European rich countries do not want to help our region. Even EU member states can't count on aid, such as Hungary, which was normally in debt of about $200 billion and whose currency, forint, according to the official course of the National Bank of Hungary in mid-August last year, changed from 235 forints to one euro, and a few days ago was worth least in history compared to the euro -- the ratio was 312 forints for one euro. Also, you saw, Mrs. Merkel doesn't want to help even a giant like Opel just because she's not in majority German ownership. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, it is unrealistic to expect any serious help for our country. Similarly, a propaganda trick about the so-called so-called so-called propaganda trick can be said. travel without visas, which are reportedly dependent on the adoption of these conventions and protocols. For every journey, of any kind, it takes an economy that provides it. None of this exists with us, and I can only expect worse indicators this year. Also, when Oli Rehn's statement of March 4th 2009 on visa relief for the Western Balkans is analysed, it is clear that there are no guarantees for Serbia, as he does not even mention us in that statement, but only indefinitely talks about the possibility that some Western Balkan countries may get visa relief by the end of this year. This should also be added to that statement by Olli Rehn of 9 February this year recommending that EU candidacy be not submitted, and things related to our country are fully clear. Unfortunately, the only thing that can really be applied to these conventions and protocols is not applied. It is the protection of freedom of expression, guaranteed by these conventions and protocols. Not only is the government not protecting freedom of expression, but it is a harsh gauze, especially when it comes to real, not quasi-positional parties. Therefore, the urgent procedure proposed for these protocols and conventions can only be seen in one way – such as a transparent distraction of the public or a distraction from the main problems of this country, the economic crisis and the scandalous anti-crisis programme, whose only objective is to help domestic tycoons (we saw in particular who they are in Kopalnik) and foreign banks that use our citizens. Under two, discussions on an economic suicide or a loss of 260m euros, which brings a unilateral application of the Transition Agreement with the EU at a time when every euro is important to us. Under three, discussions on a recession which, according to the Institute for Market Research, already affects over 50% of the 200 leading domestic businessmen; discussions on the months-long vain payment of interest on the standby arrangement with the IMF, as well as discussions on a new arrangement with the IMF, although even the Ukrainian government of Ms Timoshenko sees it as a disaster for the economy of each country and that they are much more favourable just Russian loans. These are the primary topics that we need to discuss in this congregation and why we need to adopt laws by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14663	Thank you, Mr. Dejan Mirovic. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS Group - JS Mr. Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, our state has signed four conventions, two additional protocols and one agreement; of those seven, six more in 2005, however, then the SCG community. Serbia has taken over all these obligations. Since then, three governments have been in power in Serbia. I am pleased that this government has moved faster with the ratification of these international documents, because when a document signed by the state is long standing in a drawer, the question of how serious the state itself is. It's three crimes, very big, very important, crimes that don't suffer the borders of any state. These are: high-tech crime, then terrorism and human trafficking. It has, one, the other and the third, become the monster of the last years in all countries. Proposals for a law on ratification of conventions signed by our country and which the National Assembly should ratify today are on the agenda, and I will only remain on the question of whether the National Assembly should confirm these conventions, protocols and agreements. The SPS-JS parliamentary group feels it should and it is good that it has finally come to the agenda. The SPS-JS parliamentary group will vote in voting day to confirm these conventions, agreements and protocols. We call on everyone, when it comes to international agreements taken by the state, to do the same. In short, when it comes to the Convention on High-Technological Crime, the additional protocol, the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism and on Money Laundering, the Financing of Terrorism, the Convention on Combating Human Trade, is characteristic of all of them: all of them aim to promote the joint operation of states, both within the state and within the framework of co-operation with other countries, prevent, prevent, prevent high-tech crime, prevent terrorism, human trafficking; under two, the measures that should be taken for such a thing and under three, the balance that conventions require to establish between, on the one hand, the necessary implementation of laws and, on the other hand, respect for human rights. I think it's a convention with such a purpose that we can hardly have any objections. Serbia responds. Serbia has an interest in entering, along with the international community, in an organised fight against all three types of crime and its interest is to confirm these conventions. Of course, it is further that Serbia is defined for EU entry, which Serbia wants, regardless of all the problems it faces, to do everything to bring its own legislation into line with EU standards. It is something in which no one can stop her on that road to the EU. One of the conditions is, of course, the ratification of these conventions, protocols and agreements. Finally, I expect and believe that after confirming these conventions, agreements and protocols, this government will come up with proposals for all of this to be foreseen in our legislation (one proposal we had yesterday on the agenda), and then, with international co-operation, to enter very organised and fiercely into the application of these regulations, of course, by protecting, and today we have had many examples, and Serbia's interests in this area. I conclude, the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group supports and proposes that the National Assembly confirm all four conventions, both protocols and an agreement on facilitating the issue of visas with Denmark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14665	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. The word is from Mrs. Milica Vojic-Markovic, authorised representative of the DSS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen MPs, we have before us a set of conventions and documents of another kind dealing with approximately three very interesting and very widespread forms of crime, such as organised crime, terrorism and human trafficking. A few months and years ago, we started this process of joining the EU by practically bringing in a set of very serious documents, starting with several national strategies and other types of documents dealing with these problems, and we partly translated it into some laws, so I don't understand until the end what several of my predecessors stressed that we depend exclusively on these conventions that we sign as valid documents, because we have our own legal legislation in this area and I think it would be good to finally start applying it. When I comment on this, first of all, from a form of crime called human trafficking and which is a very serious social problem not only in countries like Serbia, so in poor countries in transition, but also in rich, economically highly developed countries. It's something in theory called modern slavery of the 21st century. When it comes to the number of people who are victims of human trafficking, they really deal with different numbers. One of the data is the UN's data that it's about 700,000 people, mostly women and children, and some men, victims of human trafficking annually in the world, and of course there's also 900,000 people per year who are victims of human trafficking. So it's one of the three most profitable criminal activities, after arms trafficking and drug trafficking. The profits on this criminal activity are about 507 billion dollars a year. The money is further poured into trafficking and arms trafficking, into other forms of organised crime, in part and into terrorism, but is partly used for lobbying politicians. You see these big affairs that concern Walker, so now Kushner and Holbrook's name appears in the whole story. So a lot of that money is being poured right into that part of organized crime that brings about politics. I will not speak on purpose of names mentioned in our country, simply because those names will be revealed very quickly in the media. I have to comment that there is a very extensive definition of what human trafficking is. This definition is set out in Article 3. Protocols to prevent, suppress and punish human trafficking, I again stress specifically, children and women. It is part of the UN Convention on Transnational Organized Crime. Therefore, trafficking in human beings involves recruiting, transporting, transporting, transferring, detecting and receiving a person through the threat of force or the use of force and coercion, kidnapping, fraud, fraud, abuse of authority or difficult position, giving or receiving money or other use to gain the consent of a person who has control over another person, in order to exploit it. So the term "explosion" is mentioned, and that actually includes what is very often present as a topic that is going through the media: prostitution, forced labor. You see hundreds of little beggars on the streets of every city or old people who deal with begging. It's this organized network that deals with forced labor or service. One element of this exploitation has been mentioned in Serbia the last few months. He has a specific name, it's called servitut; it's actually this human organ trafficking that appears as a story that during the acts of war in Kosovo, various groups, which military, paramilitary, intelligence, participated in organ trafficking by kidnapping Serbs and taking them to various places (about some three locations) and taking their organs. What is very important and what this document mentions in Article 3b is the consent of the victim, because it is often said that there is no such crime in human trafficking if the victim has agreed. In fact, I think it's very important to clarify that name, regardless of whether the victim was deceived, kidnapped by force or extorted in any other way, it does not reduce the responsibility of the person involved in human trafficking. Another very interesting thing (ugly to say interesting thing, but I just think you should put an accent on it) is that children are very often victims of human trafficking and lately they appear as the most common victims, even more than they have been women lately. In this sense, Article 3d of the Convention should be mentioned, which says that children are up to the age of 18, although practice has recently shown that children are getting younger and younger, so, even very young children, because the chains of child trafficking simply found a lucrative job in taking children for adoption or in some other way. This chain of trade involves three stages, from the recruitment phase, it's recruiting, to transit, where you have both transportation and routes and means of transport, to one of these forms of prostitution. What is interesting and to insist on is the way recruiting is done. I think it's necessary, because the most important thing in preventing all of this is conventions, on the one hand, and education of the population. The way they're lurking is, first of all, adverts. You see, in transition countries, in a poor society like Serbia, you have a situation of constantly showing up some interesting job ads, and no one is controlling those ads. The proof that they are not fully controlled is this ad in "Blica" which came out a few days ago, where the Kosovo Privatisation Agency was advertised. After that, you have statements from all people, participants in this story about that ad, everyone washes their hands, no one is responsible, nor knows what's going on in their newspaper. The other way is kidnapping. Look, I also call on the media, very often the abduction of minors, the disappearance of certain people... The story of abductions in Kosovo is already a story that we really need to talk a lot about and to slowly obtain documentation about all this, evidence of where people who were abducted in Kosovo ended up. One of the modern ways in which the victim is lurking is the Internet and should also draw the public's attention to it. What is the fact and most frightening, it seems to me, in this part, is that in some situations of extreme poverty, some families sell their members to ensure the physical survival of that other part of the family and its members. In some other times, Serbia was practically a destination where the victims of the trafficker ended, as the modern name of this form of human trafficking is. These were women from Eastern Europe who mostly ended up in Serbia's space. But war and poverty have practically led Serbia to become not only a transit country for this form of crime, but also to become a country whose many residents ended up being victims of human trafficking and ended up in chains of trade. It is interesting to say that we currently have only two shelters in the country that care for victims of this form of criminal activity and that it is mainly shelters that various NGOs organise to receive and work with victims of the trade. What is important and why I am actually telling this story is this convention, as well as the signing and ratification of the UN Convention, which I have already mentioned, against transnational organised crime. We really as a country have a way to access these documents, to sign and ratify them, but our problem is that we still feel that we have done all the work by signing and ratifying some document. I mean, Serbia has done a lot on this road. I want to say it publicly, precisely because of the governments of Vojislav Kostunica, particularly the first government of Vojislav Kostunica. I'm going to taxfully state what Serbia has done. So, in May 2001, a federal-level anti-trafficking team was formed, and already in April 2002, the same team was formed at the republican level. In April 2003, the law of the Republic of Serbia was first amended and amended, a new member of 111b was inserted, where a new criminal offence was introduced; for the first time, it appears as a criminal offence of human trafficking. But that change in Criminal Law was not precise enough and did not make the difference between smuggling people, on the one hand, and on the other hand, trafficking people. This was corrected in January 2006 when new amendments and additions became two crimes that were treated in two different members and were also two different sanctions for those crimes. In March 2004, a Service for Co-ordination of Victims of Human Trade was established under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy under the national anti-trafficking mechanism. The task of this body was to coordinate the activities of all organisations and institutions in the country dealing with trafficking and the fight against human trafficking. In 2004, then, Interior Minister Mr. Jocic brought instructions on the conditions for granting residence to foreign citizens victims of human trafficking. According to these instructions, the MUP could for humanitarian reasons for foreign citizens, mostly children and women, approve a temporary stay in Serbia for three, six and 12 months. Another very important thing in this area, therefore, domestic matter, is what the government of Vojislav Kostunica brought in December 2006 – it is a strategy against human trafficking. The strategy consists of a series of very precise, concrete measures and activities to be implemented to combat human trafficking. The creation of this strategy has established strategic objectives, whose implementation is planned through various activities specifically presented in the National Action Plan to combat human trafficking. From that period, when this national action plan began its activities and formed, to this day this plan is not over. So my question is, why didn't the Home Office finish the job that started? This is very important not only for the signing of this document, but is very important for the state of Serbia and its citizens, so as not to become victims of human trafficking. I'll give you another piece of information that's very interesting. That is, for example, in 2007, which is the research and report by the MUP, which says that for the first nine months of 2007, the MUP filed a total of 26 criminal charges for the execution of the trafficking of human beings; it covers 57 perpetrators, and the number of victims is 83. Of those eighty-three people over 30% are children under the age of 18. That's how it was done at a time when this ministry was led by Mr. Jocic and when this ministry brought its reports here to see the National Assembly, the Defence and Security Committee. I must say that we MPs do not have any further information on this, because since the formation of this government, not one single report by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence has been seen by the MPs, so that Serbian citizens should know that civilian control over these two ministries, so-called "ministers of force", is actually not. Let's get back to this Council of Europe convention on the fight against human trafficking. Of course, only signing such conventions is never a matter of one state, it can only contribute to improving the legislative situation in this area. But what is common to any normal dispute is the reasoning that applies to this Convention, which the Government has submitted, which reads: "It is proposed that the law be adopted by emergency procedure, because the adoption of the law by emergency procedure will create all necessary conditions for the work of the state authorities in the fight against human trafficking, thus fulfilling the necessary conditions in the process of joining the European Union." So, in addition to that famous dogma that Europe has no alternative, we now have one new dogma – that by signing these conventions we will end all the work in this area and that there is no need to deal with what we have already done in that part and what we have covered in some way with legislation, just to sign the convention, everything will be fine and everything will continue in that direction as it has been done. My question is this: what are we going to do with all this signing of these conventions when Europe, which "has no alternative", says that we are not its alternative, or Europe says that Serbia can wait a little longer? Then we will put aside both these conventions and those problems that we have in the area of this crime until Europe accepts us, until it says that we can implement such conventions. We have another approach concerning these Council of Europe conventions on the prevention of terrorism and the Protocol amending the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Their explanation is exactly the same. I was very pedantic, so I read all the arguments – they're exactly the same. So all we're doing is getting close to Europe. So, as for the Convention and the Protocol on Terrorism, we have a concrete example in our country, which is Kosovo. There we have a visible correlation between Albanian organised crime, on the one hand, and terrorism on the other. First of all, we have the Kosovo Liberation Army, the Albanian National Army and a series of such organisations. It's very visible here that this Ship's organized crime is from profits he's obtained from either selling weapons or selling drugs, selling stolen cars, smuggling illegal migrants, human trafficking, prostitution... All that capital went, on the one hand, to arm these terrorist organizations, and on the other hand to buy private properties and houses of the non-Albanian population. One part of the money went to privatisation of Serbian companies. The third part of the money was given to politicians lobbying for the benefit of an independent Kosovo, as has been given for corruption of representatives of international organisations, diverse. So, on the one hand, the governments of those countries that recognise independent Kosovo today sign such conventions that we are fighting terrorism, and on the other hand, these same governments are helping to develop terrorism in the Balkans by recognising the work of terrorist organisations, including organised crime, called "independent Kosovo". It's just, my concern about signing all possible conventions... I, of course, don't mind, and neither does my party, international documents that we join in one way, but we have against the fact that, on the one hand, documents that are legal acts and what's called law are being implemented in a way that absolutely does not stand. So on the one hand, we're passing laws that are great and wonderful, and on the other hand we're working to bring down countries that are members of the UN. So, what I have to tell the representatives who are here, because obviously the ones who were supposed to be here today... That is, Mrs. Malovic is always here, and Mr. Dacic is gone. What I had in mind was a few questions for Mr. Dacic as interior minister. There's no reason for me to do it the way I'm forced to do it otherwise, to do it in writing, so I'm going to do it today. So today I'm not going to ask and open these questions. There's just no talker I can open those questions with, so I'm gonna end up this way. We don't mind signing conventions, but we do have against the fact that the official representatives of the state not knowing that we have documents on which they can do business in this country and that they think that signing and ratifying any convention is all done.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14667	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, applications for a word in writing, were submitted by parliamentary groups: the SRS, the SPS-JS, New Serbia, the DSS and the G17 Plus. I give my word to MP Zoran Bortic of the SPS-JS Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14668	The Honored Chairman-in-Office, the Honorable Prime Ministers, the esteemed fellow MPs, the proposal by the Government of Serbia to adopt these laws by an urgent procedure is explained by the fact that their adoption will create all necessary conditions for the work of state authorities in the fight against various forms of crime, especially in the areas of high-tech crime, trafficking in human beings, combating terrorism and preventing its financing, as well as various forms of xenophobia and racism. At the same time, these laws confirm our country's series of conventions of the Council of Europe to which we are bound by full membership in this international organisation, and this paves the way for the EU. In particular, it should be pointed out that the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which represents an imperative for resolving these issues, also obliges the National Assembly to confirm international agreements when the law provides for the obligation to confirm them. High-tech crime, trafficking in white slaves, terrorism and its various forms of occurrence, all the way to racism and xenophobia, are highly developed and can be said to be the serious diseases of the modern world. These forms of crime know no bounds, no state, no national, no civilization. They join together and threaten to endanger each individual member of the international community, regardless of the degree of its development and form of government. As a result, it is the primary task of the entire international community and each country individually to join together in the fight against this common evil and to create conditions for the elimination of these forms of crime through harmonised legal solutions. The Republic of Serbia is located in the thorny area of the so-called The Western Balkans, through which various forms of criminal activity mentioned are very strongly broken. Despite the intense actions and activities that our authorities have taken to prevent these phenomena, it cannot be prevented by simple or unilateral action by an individual country whose participants use the highest technological achievements of the modern world. This calls for coordination and integration with countries, in particular the European continent, as well as all other members of the UN Organisation. A global struggle is necessary against global evil. In this respect, these laws form a good basis for regulating this complex area and our contribution to strengthening the international community in the fight against the aforementioned forms of crime. Starting with the sudden, the SPS-JS parliamentary group believes these laws should be adopted by an urgent procedure and in the voting day we will vote for a set of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14669	The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic, the New Serbia MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14670	God helps, Serbian citizens. To all who have entered the mysterious journey of the great and honorable fast, I want them to endure, in addition to maintaining themselves from the greasy food and drink, to examine their own negative thoughts, relations with their loved ones, relationships with their work, and especially to set as a positive goal of this fast the re-imagining of their own life, which is a gift from God himself, and not some passing and worthless creation that we will easily shed. I want what I want for my citizens to my fellow Members of Parliament in this assembly, and especially for the members of the government in the winter debate on ski paths, where they fight against the global economic crisis on boards and skis. Who knows, maybe they've chosen a good way to become more responsible, because in fear of saving the living head on the hoods and the wires, they come into a state of their kind of enlightenment, so they remember us, ordinary people, whose winter cult is due to increased prices of communals, gas, phones, drugs. Reading yesterday's "Kurir" one of my friends said funnyly to me, "It's not true that everything was expensive, here, coke, i.e. cocaine has never been cheaper on the Belgrade market." The small problem is that most citizens, just as they will, can only get high by hitting their heads when they see accounts falling out of their mailboxes or possibly sniffing out real coke, all with feathers, since livestock is in a huge crisis. Here, the defendants of the Agroliv affair were released, so that there would be someone who would run the company and prevent a further sea of popcorn on farms. The optimists will say, "It's not bad, it's fast time," but we fear what happens when we have to get wet, and both businesses and farms are spent and destroyed. There are 60,000 small and medium-sized enterprises in the blockade, which translates that if only two people are employed in each of them, 120,000 people can be expected to be fired. There are over 40,000 people in the state administration, and by the end of the year, another 50,000 people are expected to lose their jobs through privatisation, primarily in companies such as IMT, IMR, FAP, RTB "Bor", cable factories in Jagodina. Now we already have a million unemployed, which means we'll have more pensioners and unemployed than workers. Not to mention what the debt crisis awaits us during this period, when more and more of them will not be able to repay housing loans or pay for the cars on the lease. Already now, people are giving up mass on the intended purchase of cars, as their wars have multiplied for "running" 100 euros. The master of deception and the Serbian baron Minhauzen, who advertises himself as the world's largest financial expert, again finds tricks for those who have not sobered up after the stockings, and now offers them old for a new one, and who from the earlier ad "come, get, get out", especially with a sock on his head. With what right does he give taxpayers' money to subsidize the purchase of "punta"? That's a good question, but it's impossible to get answers from the "younger Cross." But what we would do in the congregation, when ministers struck down on joy, is work to strengthen their own condition and promote ski equipment. How else would the prime minister have the opportunity to adequately promote that ski-designed hat? He really didn't belong in the Nuts, but for the Cop, he can pass. The only thing I have to warn the members of the boast and the autistic authorities (is interesting that it is not presently, is that it is mostly not there) is that no conditioning will be enough to escape soon from the dissatisfied people who will rightly chase them. So I don't get a heads-up, because in a congregation like this, where you can talk for two minutes on a professional basis, I'll be back on the agenda. Still, I can't help but notice how a sort of psychological game of "now you see it, now you don't see it," when it comes to putting the law on the agenda. We were just preparing ourselves for environmental laws, which are also important for the normal life-form of all of us who drink the same water and breathe the same air enriched with chemicals, I guess you'd agree with the poored uranium sent to us by the "merciful angel", when they were first delayed, and since the MPs of the opposition thoroughly prepared and discussed and amended, removed. Suddenly, here is a whole new agenda where they are united so important and thematically divided, the bill that neither person whose mind works on the principle of accelerated and multiplied associations can find among them the smallest common multiple. If we exempt the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination, because it was withdrawn, and I had the amendment that it was criminally responsible for the jokes on blondes, which were discriminated against on the basis of personal property, it remains a galatias: international legal aid in criminal matters, prevention of washing, not drying, counting, exporting money and financing terrorism, and all of this was introduced into the parent books, which would be best if they were immediately introduced into the EU's central computer, so that in such a way and at a small door we could reach the "white Schengen" list. And, of course, within point 2 of some seven conventions that represent the photo finishes of white Schengen. It is a pity that Mr. Djelic is even within his party, and especially in the name of the government, forbidden to speak, because we really miss that flame of his incriminating Serbian citizens as soon as we're not on that "white Schengen". Even if we had entered that list, since the government's pre-election promise of 500,000 employees should actually be read as five million unemployed, I'm just curious as to what these people would travel somewhere. Unless the government's intention is to enable Serbian citizens to travel, let's say, to the republic of Vojvodina, so that with a "white Schengen", you go from Belgrade to, say, Panchevo. Neither the Prime Minister nor the Government knows to explain to us where our foreign reserve is... (President: I apologize, Mrs Jankovic, the Republic of Vojvodina does not exist. ) The so-called Republic of Vojvodina. (President: Please treat yourselves in both the borders and the frameworks of the agenda, because you yourself have warned yourself that you are going back to the agenda. I treat myself very politely. I'm going back to the agenda. (President: I have been waiting very patiently for seven minutes to return to the agenda. ) Take stenographic notes. If you don't understand what I'm saying, then you'll have to interpret later that I'm talking about the agenda. (President: Please return to the agenda and behave yourself. Thank you. ) So neither the prime minister nor the government knows that they explain to us where our foreign reserves are, who is and how they allowed the outflow of foreign exchanges from Serbia and how the domestic banking sector was destroyed, with foreign banks still carrying capital from here. Of course, foreign banks invested in Serbia and because the interest on loans was four times higher than in EU countries, so they made a great living. Now that their headquarters are threatened, they decided to withdraw the money, and neither the finance ministry nor the National Bank of Serbia had thought of tax measures or some other instruments to make a profit in Serbia and place it. Any honor to all these law proposals and to confirm international conventions, or to comply with EU legislation, it is necessary for the authority to be responsible, and there, as chairman, is a link with the agenda and that the laws apply here, in Serbia. After all, they are not the EU's executive authority, nor the United States, but Serbia and its citizens. As for the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, it is also an honor. How can we believe the serious intentions of this government that is talking to the Shiptar terrorists? Are Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj terrorists? They did. The first vice-president, Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Mr Dacic, who spoke to me on January 21st, said that the red Interpol warrant was being issued by the NCB of Interpol Belgrade, and that the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia filed a criminal complaint against Hashim Thaci, Sejdiu and Krasniqi and delivered the same to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade on 18 February 2008. What convention on the prevention and prevention of terrorism are we talking about if we don't have a chance to seek the arrest of these terrorists? Or maybe the law is discriminatory, so it distinguishes politically similar and unremarkable terrorists? I really don't believe Mr. Dacic would have arrested these characters if there was any positive signal from a person who was essentially prime minister, who met with Thaci at the Socialist International Congress. Either from him, or from his mentors, who would now make Vojvodina unserb by actually equating Europeans with anti-Serbian. What we're talking about is the fight against human trafficking when the world-renowned fact that it was, which is the worst and the worst, the trafficking of the organs of our countrymen from the southern province is not sanctioned. It is nice to update the entry into the Kosovo and Metohija Serb parent books, but the fundamental question is whether they will be able, because they are ruled by terrorists, to remain Serbian citizens... (President: Unfortunately, your time has run out, you are done, you are out of time, your parliamentary group has 10 minutes and 48 seconds. Well, when the break we took is excluded because you couldn't figure out what I was talking about, then I have a right to which 30 seconds...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14671	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mrs. Jelena Travar from the G17 Plus Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14672	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, Madam Minister, I will speak of a set of laws. I think everyone is extremely important for European integration and the G17 Group of MPs will support them. Otherwise, the convention I'm going to refer to is the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against human trafficking. Human trafficking is a violation of human rights and a violation of humanity's dignity and integrity, especially of women and children. The Convention of the Council of Europe was adopted in 2005 in Warsaw, and the Republic of Serbia has inherited international obligations under the signing of the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and Protocol on the Prevention and Penalty of Trade in Human Beings, especially women and children. Otherwise, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a strategy to combat human trafficking in the Republic of Serbia in 2006. The strategic goals in the fight against human trafficking are grouped in five areas. These are: institutional framework, prevention and assistance, protection and reintegration of victims, international co-operation and monitoring and evaluation of results. According to a 2008 State Department report on human trafficking, the Office for Co-ordination of the Protection of Victims of Human Trade reported 60 identified victims of human trafficking in 2007, including 26 minors, and of the 60 identified victims 48 are of Serbian origin. According to data from NGOs in Serbia, 90% of the victims allegedly participated in an investigation against their traders. According to NGOs, trafficking victims are often directly or indirectly forced to testify against human traffickers. During 2007, 37 victims of human trafficking were placed in two shelters run by NGOs, 21 in a shelter for temporary stay, and 16 in an open-air shelter, including two babies. Reintegration programs are provided for 47 women and four men, of which 22 children. During the period covered by the report, 11 municipalities established social protection teams, which are composed of social workers, police and NGOs, to help potential victims of domestic violence and trafficking. In the previous year, there were 57 victims of human trafficking in Serbia, and compared to earlier data, the number did not increase. According to NGOs, that number is much higher because only 10 - 25 percent of the victims actually come forward. According to UN data, 700,000 women, children and men each year become victims of human trafficking. Human trafficking is, unfortunately, one of the three most profitable criminal activities besides drug trafficking and arms trafficking. The profits made from human trafficking are estimated at 7 - 60 billion dollars a year, and by some data, much more. Otherwise, human trafficking is defined, according to the UN Convention, as recruiting, transport, transport, transfer, hide and receive persons through the threat of force or use of force and other forms of coercion, kidnapping, fraud, fraud, abuse of authority or difficult position, giving or receiving money or other use to obtain the consent of a person who has control over other persons in the process of exploitation. Exploitation includes, as a minimum, exploitation of other persons' prostitution and other forms of sexual exploitation, forced labour or service, slavery or relationship similar to slavery, servitt or organ removal. The chain of human trafficking involves three stages: the recruiting phase, the transit phase and the exploitation phase, and the forms of human trafficking are the following: sexual, labour exploitation, debt slavery, forced marriage, false adoption, forced begging, forced criminal acts and organ trafficking. In addition, I would like to make a chronological reference to what has been done in the Republic of Serbia since 2000. In 2001, a multidisciplinary body was created to combat human trafficking at a federal level. In 2002, a republican anti-trafficking team was established. In 2003, a change and addition of the Serbian CAP was made and a criminal act of human trafficking was introduced. However, this law does not specify the difference between human trafficking and human trafficking, which was made by a new law adopted in 2006, which specifically introduces sanctions for child trafficking for adoption. In 2004, a Service for Co-ordination of the Protection of Victims of Human Trade was established. As I have already mentioned, in 2006, Serbia adopted a strategy against trafficking in human beings, and the same year the Law on the Protection of Participants in the Criminal Procedure, which defines the conditions and procedures for providing protection and assistance to participants in criminal proceedings and to those close to them who are threatened by participation in criminal proceedings. There are currently two shelters in Serbia aimed exclusively at victims of human trafficking, which operate within the non-governmental sector. In an international legal sense, the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings entered into force in February 2008 and aims to prevent and curb human trafficking by guaranteeing gender equality, to protect human rights of victims of human trafficking, to develop a comprehensive framework for providing protection and assistance to victims and witnesses, to ensure more effective investigations and prosecution, and to improve international co-operation and control. The Convention stipulates that each Party Party should ensure that investigations or prosecution of criminal offences under the Convention do not depend on the application or charge of the victim, at least when the offence in general or partially committed in its territory, and that it adopts the measures necessary to ensure that certain persons or bodies specialize in the fight against trafficking and the protection of victims. It is necessary to ensure effective and adequate protection against possible retribution or intimidation, particularly during or after the investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators. During court proceedings, a foreign Contracting Party shall ensure the protection of the victim's privacy and, where appropriate, its identity, as well as the safety of the victim. In this Convention there are also general principles and measures aimed at strengthening international co-operation, in particular measures relating to endangered or missing persons, information and co-operation with civil society. The convention also envisions the formation of a group of experts to curb trafficking in people whose task is to oversee the application of the Convention by the Contracting Parties and the process of assessing them. I would like to point out that yesterday in the Borski District, the arrest of human traffickers was made, and trade was done with minors, or girls. The adoption of this bill creates additional conditions for improving mechanisms for preventing human trafficking, in addition, as I said, which brings us closer to Europe and leading us to European integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14673	Thank you, Mrs. Travar. The word is Mr. Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14674	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, first of all, I have to say I'm worried about my colleague Krasic; something I don't see, and I see a yellow bottle there. I don't know if a man drank from it that fluid, don't let God get some disease of dirty hands, for example, in a people called jaundice. I hope not, I hope it'll be all right. As for these items of the agenda relating to conventions, mostly, the Council of Europe, which we need today to confirm (and all these validations have the power of law), I must say that it is necessary for the state of Serbia to confirm all these conventions, but what is controversial and what is the fundamental difference between the DSS and the DS regarding European integration can also be seen on this case. We have seen in our explanation that these conventions are only important because, as always and speaking, this incompetent government, what should be done in the EU, which is normally the headquarters of this government, and that 150-200 laws should be passed at the annual level, these conventions or laws are also accounted for, while the DSS considers that the EU or Europe is becoming operational, because in the EU, it is not talked about, in particular, by changing society, not only through the adoption of laws but also through the implementation of these laws and through the repair of our society in all areas and by reaching these standards that have developed EU countries. Then when the time comes, of course, the people will say in a referendum whether they want to be part of that great European family or not. There is much more important work for us as Parliament (and that should be for the government) – precisely the creation of these standards in all areas. This is how running 150 laws were done by some of the current EU countries, such as Bulgaria; they passed laws that were sometimes not translated from French or English. What is the situation in Bulgaria now? Lower salaries than in Serbia, worse economic and economic situation than in Serbia, have been blocked by EU funds because they have a huge degree of crime and corruption within the country. Is it necessary to run to be a member of the EU, and after that, our citizens are essentially not of much use to it, as they do not have in Bulgaria, or do we need to be a strong state, to become part of this European family, such as the Czech Republic, and to be a model for us to work and to change our society in this way? I'll also give examples based on the specific points that are proposed here. For example, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Washing, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime and on the financing of terrorism and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. We can adopt this, but it insists that we should also pass a certain number of laws. But when we pass those laws, will we apply them or not? How will this country apply them? How will this authority apply them if they agree to EULEX, if, like, it has agreed on some six points that are not applied, if terrorists rule in the part of our territory, if they have their own government, if they have their own assembly, and we have allowed them as a state to have courts and to have the help of Eulex and to judge these courts by the laws adopted in the Pristina Parliament? I warned you from here that this would happen, and it has already happened, the first rulings of the EULEX judges have already made (against Albanians, however, but it doesn't matter, these are our citizens) under the laws adopted in parliament in Pristina. How are we going to chase Thaci, Haradinaj, who are still on the red Interpol pursuit, on our request, as terrorists if we agreed that someone who doesn't have the right to lead the courts and the police on the part of our territory? It turns out we've been fooled because of those six points, there's nothing. We agree to that, keep quiet, try to justify that all of this is in Serbia's interest, in the interest of the Serbian people, in the interest of the citizens living downstairs. On the other hand, when judges, who are supposed to be the final, impacting fist in the fight against terrorism, bring a verdict against those who are terrorists, want to protest certain things in Kosovo and Metohija, they are banned from protesting. How are we seriously going to be a partner with all the members of the Council of Europe? You know, Belarus was also in the Council of Europe, Lukashenko was also in Kopalnik as president of a state, and our president didn't meet with him; probably those who helped him come to power here wouldn't be angry with him because he met with the president of a country. That's why Dinkic skied with him, saw Cvetkovic with him, talked to him, but he's not Mr Tadic. On the other hand, we have a bill confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against human trafficking. All the data speaks, and officially they'll have to come to this assembly one day... I will remind you, ever since this government was formed and since this assembly was established, no defence ministry report has been submitted by any security service. Is there even a civilian security control of the military and the police? I'm a member of the Defence and Security Committee, no reports have yet been filed, neither oral nor written. Why? I can only assume, because of what the official data reported, they have not filed a single report (let's see how many sessions there were and when they filed the report), except for that commission that was designed to examine the circumstances under which, and we can talk about it, Ranko Panic passed away. And what would it be? If we talk about EU standards, what happened in Greece when the police killed a student or a high school student? Within 24, these officers have been suspended, followed by proceedings against them, both disciplinary and judicial. What happened to the late Ranko Panic? What happened to that commission? I told this assembly speaker that it was a communist con from the old days – make a commission so you don't solve anything. What's the D.A.'s office doing? Where is he? How does he work? All data suggests that crime in Serbia is on the rise, corruption in Serbia is on the rise. These are data that you can see in institutions dealing with both the Council of Europe and the EU and the UN. The latest UN report, in September, which speaks of security in the world of Serbia, has placed it among the safest countries in Europe. Not in the region, but in Europe. Of course, they listed 2007, 2006; it is known who was in power then, who led the police, who led the army, who led the BIA. It's official data in the UN. It can be criticised here, to say it was not good, but experts involved said Serbia was one of the safest countries in the world at the time. Today, the exact opposite is coming: that crime is on the rise, that corruption is on the rise, that human trafficking in Serbia, especially women, is on the rise. Unfortunately, my colleague Milica Vojic-Markovic cited an example, and ads in the printed media speak of what kind of media image we currently have in Serbia. One list publishes unrecognized governments, unrecognized congregations, unrecognized agencies, privatisation ads in Kosovo and Metohija. Adverts have also been announced that unemployed girls in Serbia will be cheated that they will be allowed to work in the territory of the EU or other countries, and then become white slaves there. No one checks it out or reacts to those ads. The media is in the Croatian newspaper about a former director, whether he did something or didn't do it. All of a sudden, all the media are starting to deal with it, and they're not dealing with it by showing up on the finance ministry site that the state has spent nine billion dinars more than the Budget Law has made possible. Then 20 days disappears from the Internet, so completely different data appears, and the prosecutor does nothing. Don't do anything about a trade notice, don't do anything about that presentation, that page. Then we are surprised that we have such data and that international organisations are now talking about Serbia quite the opposite of what they said a year, a year and a half ago. The Republican prosecutor only works when he gargles over television by the government, by the authorities, that something needs to be checked. Then he runs and checks, but when he does something that's in power, no checks, no responsibilities, no serious access. These are not European standards. If it were to happen in a serious EU country, such as the Czech Republic, Poland, Germany, France, the minister could not be a day minister. The present minister, who received her own two salaries, for RIK and for the minister, then paid back some money (I don't know what course, whether she returned to the course that was then, or in the dinars, no one had established it), could not be a minister now, after that. We need standards. We need to work to make our society the way it deserves to be and what our citizens expect from the state, to make them and to create them. We don't need a race. We need this, but what? To get on the Schengen list, to get visas, why? That millions of young people - because they have no perspective here or because it is incompetent, because 17.1% of the decline in production in Serbia compared to January last year or 25%, an industrial decline compared to the whole of 2008 in January of this year - took visas, passports and left this country. What are we going to do without these millions of young people leaving? How will Serbia prosper? I guess they need to change that society, not just to get us closer to joining the EU. They say -- wait, where you're going, we haven't decided on the Lisbon Agreement yet, we don't give money to Eastern European countries, don't put up with the candidacy, it's not the time. Slovenia does not allow Croatia to enter, it announces a referendum that Croatia cannot enter. There is no uniform attitude on enlargement to the EU, and we are only dealing with this issue. That is, you're dealing, as a government, because you're not capable of dealing with the citizens' life issue, and then you're beating them up and driving them crazy with some story about faster integration. You mentioned the Rules of Procedure, we're working. What did you do new? What's gonna be better for the citizens? You may pass 50 laws, but when are you going to apply them, if all the statistics say that the state is both economic and security and in every other area in a growing problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14675	Thank you. The word is Miss Marina Ragush, SRS MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14676	Ladies and gentlemen, you will likely be puzzled by what I am about to say, but the SRS is looking forward to this agenda because of the chance to finally talk about media pranks concerning the ideological, programming and political concepts of the SRS' work, and that, for the sake of the public, chronological and factographic attempt, at least today, to determine what interfered with the ruling majority to make the EU's convergence process faster. What we often have the opportunity to hear in public, and indeed concerns citizens and I address them in these moments in the first place, is that in order to slow down the visa liberalisation process, the main culprits are those who are, in fact, the main opponents of the conditioning policy that comes from the territory of the most important EU countries and are mainly listed by officials, members of the SRS. If that's true, you can also track it on the Internet, we have here, indeed documented, several reports of the most diverse workshops so-called. NGOs, seminars, round tables, which are mainly held in the EU capital in Brussels; when asked why Serbia is late in the process of reforming and approaching the EU, which means standards before the status, they mainly state -- due to the SRS. All of us who travel within the Schengen zone when we apply for visas have the opportunity to see those terrible lines, we are trying to collect documentation that is expected of all of us, which is a few kilograms, most often in these rows – that is because the SRS is actually obstructing the process of joining the European Union. So my exposure, as you can imagine, will move in that direction. What I'm trying to point out to the citizens (and it's not for no reason, of course, everything that's going to happen this year and next) is that media spins, which is what the former Democratic opposition of Serbia and the parties that have gravitated within the DOS failed to do, shifts it to the dark side of a regime that's long behind us and that Western European diplomats are trying to attribute it to the totalitarian past with which it needs to end and end. I have to say, of course, none of that is true. I will speak the language of the facts, try to be successful, speak the language of those who participated in the first DOS governments, and are now in certain expert groups and commissions. I will use the reports, let's say, to my favorite Group 484, we will try to determine why Serbia has failed to meet the standards that the European Union has requested to be part of a system called visa liberalisation, or visa liberalisation regime. Therefore, on our agenda are, among other things: the Convention on High-Technological Crime or "cyber Crime", adopted in Budapest on 23 November 2002, and entered into force on 1 July 2004; the Additional Protocol, which goes with the Convention on cybercrime, adopted in Strasbourg on 28 January 2003; the Convention on Washing, Searching, Confiscation and Recital Abuse of Crime and the Financing of Terrorism, adopted in Warsaw on 16 May 2005, entered into force on 1 May 2008; the Convention of the Council of Europe on Combating Human Trade, adopted in Warsaw on 16 May 2005. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in 2009, and this is what Group 484 in its report on "white Schengen" says which of the standards are actually met, and this is directly signed by the government in Serbia, and who is actually behind the inability to approach what you have set as a policy course, which is the approximation of the EU. To be clear, the SRS has only one position regarding the EU, which is also being manipulated medialy, mainly in election campaigns – we are in favour of co-operation with the EU, but only on condition that we are equal partners in the process of co-operation with the organisation. Since we are not, nor will we be, equal partners, but treat us as a colony, or protectorate, the SRS considers co-operation with the EU almost impossible. So this is the final and complete position of the SRS as regards the EU and in the next few months we will have a very big intention (at the end of this process and our campaign you will see and why we will keep repeating this. So, on the basis of a report by Group 484, which mentions the legal and technical criteria imposed by the EU Council Regulation, number 539 of 2001, which are specified in the EU visa liberalisation plan with the Republic of Serbia, known as the "road map", in order to improve dialogue on conditions that the Republic of Serbia needs to meet in order to achieve a positive Schengen list, the Government of the Republic of Serbia only formed a working group on 19 July 2007 and you have a regulation of the Council of Europe in 2001 to coordinate activities aimed at meeting the criteria for the liberalisation of the EU visa regime towards the Republic of Serbia. We expect, Madam Minister, specifically from you to hear why it was only done in 2007. Among other things, it states here that the working group has the following tasks: coordination of activities aimed at meeting the criteria for visa liberalisation, preparation of an action plan for the relevant institution in order to meet these criteria, identification of priorities and tasks, etc. In his conclusions of 28 January 2008, he said, "The Council for General Affairs and International Relations of the EU welcomed the European Commission's intention to launch a visa dialogue with all Western Balkan countries. "So only in 2008. "In determining the methodology for the visa liberalisation process, special attention is paid to the European perspective of Western Balkan countries, the political commitment the EU has made with regard to short-term visas for citizens of all countries, the conclusion of an agreement on the reading of all countries in the region, the release from visas that Western Balkan countries should provide for all EU citizens. The ongoing visa liberalisation dialogue preceded the entry into force of the visa waiver agreement and the EU-Serbia readmission agreement on 1 January 2008. Out of the application of these agreements are individual countries that do not belong to the Schengen circle, therefore, they are Denmark, Norway, Great Britain, Ireland, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland, with them mainly through bilateral visa waiver agreements. A step that followed in the visa liberalisation process between Serbia and the EU is the adoption of an EU visa liberalisation plan with the Republic of Serbia, so-called. Road map, April 25, 2008. The aim of this document is to establish all the measures that should be adopted and implemented by Western Balkan countries in the near future. "What's that? "The security of documents, the control of illegal migration, public order and security, as well as the issues of external relations related to the movement of the person. The speed of the movement towards visa liberalisation is particularly important for all those in this system, who think that Serbian radicals are brakes that they travel freely within the framework of Schengen, "will depend on the speed of progress that each of these countries make with regard to meeting specific and envisaged conditions. "As time is limited, and this is a very serious subject to which we will pay more attention and tax, one by one criterion to analyse, study and explore who is behind the fact that these processes, which should first be put into order by the state of Serbia for the citizens of Serbia who live here, are actually being held back... One of the particularly important segments in the visa liberalisation process is the fight against terrorism, the fight against organised crime. Mrs. Malovic, you had one, I don't even know what to call it legally, precedent in the history of what's called political and state theory. Two federal German intelligence agents, popular BND, have been arrested in Serbia's sovereign territory. They dropped a bomb at the head office of the EULEX office, which is firstly against the sovereignty of the Serbian state territory. They were not reported as intelligence officers, so, specifically, under false names and last names, they did spy business. We wouldn't know that if the GNI's covert report hadn't been released into the air, the information hadn't leaked. The information concerned what is fundamental economic activity within the Cypriot terrorist state, so-called. Kosovo, which is a trade in drugs, weapons, organs and people. The state of Serbia has done nothing to react in a certain way. The European Union has done nothing to react in a certain way. Bundestag was talking then, those days. The second thing, you have a very recent example, what we know, based on our very reliable data that we will present during this session, is that an angry war between Brussels and Washington, on this particular issue, because the intelligence war later showed that the names of both the Washington and Brussels administrations were also mentioned, and that some of the sounds of the region were mentioned. Then we have a situation where a spokesman for the Special Prosecutor's Office for War Crimes says that evidence, therefore, of DNA material, which should determine the most terrible, most monstrous possible thing that has happened, is the trafficking of the organs of the missing Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, simply disappeared. In this regard, what is required is the launch of a new investigation because, according to the UN tribunal's unconfirmed allegations so far, not only was it in the course of organ trafficking, people, but there were so many terrible things happening that they were absolutely unimaginable and that certain people couldn't keep quiet about it. Among other things, people in the Council of Europe said that Bondsteel had protected people, Serbs and Albanians, imprisoned, tortured and deported. Also, it says "Mond", it doesn't say any Serbian media, they had knowledge of it, and they made it known through their reports to the same team of the Council of Europe whose conventions we now confirm, that Bondsteel is in fact a real Guantanamo, that people were arrested without any legal basis, that torture was carried out directly in the Middle Ages. No one is, nor is the state of Serbia (here, we insist that you conduct an investigation, order an investigation) under official duty, where there is a obligation, to investigate at least what the media and analysts, as officials of the Council of Europe are saying. How did the officials of the Council of Europe get this information? Because the commander of KFOR, a French citizen, said -- I'm uncomfortable about what's going on in Bondsteel. How many Serbs know what's going on in Bondsteel? How many Serbs know what Bondsteel is? It works for another base in the world. We, for example, knew the moment the Americans built Bondsteel, that the next -- independent Kosovo, because they built a checkpoint where they control exactly what they expect us to deal with. It's terrorism, it's trafficking in illicit assets, it's human trafficking, it's organ trafficking and all those assets that... So their profits are black funds from intelligence agencies. In the state of Serbia, no one has taken a finger when it comes to it. What we expect (you are present, Madam Minister) from the Ministry of Justice is to first examine how it is possible, say, in The Hague tribunal, we know it reliably, destroyed 3,000 DNA materials that would and would help investigate the yellow house and other routes in Kosovo and Metohija; how that the missing evidence that UNMIK was doing came to Orahovac and simply disappeared. So far, we've only got cry from the Special Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes. We now suspect that this will be covered up, as well as many investigations so far, officially, but we assure you, first of all, that we are very happy to have these topics on the agenda, that the SRS will not stop talking about these topics, that it conveys information that the wider Serbian public cannot know and that it is very clear and loudly calling all those responsible for it. Given the time, I'm telling you, if anyone from the Serbian government had any knowledge of all this and didn't do anything about it, he'll have to answer eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14677	Thank you. The word is from Mr Dragan Stevanovic, a member of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you said today in your opening statement that, in principle, this set of laws on the agenda today should ensure that these "maps of the road" for "white Schengen", namely the visa-free regime of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. For the SRS, this set of laws and discussions on it, yesterday, today or tomorrow, is exclusively proof of Belgrade's absolute service to Brussels, the unpreparedness that Belgrade is dealing with problems that seriously affect citizens of the Republic of Serbia, problems which the political and economic environment in Serbia today create and make as it is. If you want to convince us that this is over or I don't know what needs it, the "white Schengen" regime, or the visa-free regime in Serbia, I think your arguments for such a thing are very weak and unfounded. You see, Madam Minister, I have with me one of my fellow citizens' pay sheets who got the first share of his salary of 6,000 dinars. He told me, I have no reason not to believe him, that he gave 3,000 for electricity. You can imagine how interested he is in the visa-free regime. Unfortunately, two-thirds of people in Serbia live like that. It's our objective problem, it's our cruel reality, and instead of dealing with issues that will bring their economic and overall living environment to the level of a decent man in the 21st century and in the heart of Europe, we're dealing with laws that we're objectively not going to be able to apply, and that's the conclusion of almost everyone who was behind this speaker today. As far as one third of people who objectively need to make it easier for them or for them to free him, they can still travel abroad with less or more effort, the job ends, the visa gets their rights or needs abroad, but two thirds of people in Serbia today are left to themselves because of a politically irresponsible government and obviously a politically immature establishment. Madam Minister, there is something else to be objectively addressed when discussing these points of the agenda, which is certainly the measure of these conventions and protocols that you will begin to "apply" in Serbia, that is, to which you will undertake by accepting these laws. I'll discuss it through a few questions. To be honest, I wish Mr. Dacic were here today, I think they're more for him, but since he's not, at least it's nicer to look at you than he is. I'm going to ask you, Madam Minister, whether a set of these laws and their adoption will allow this state to protect Serbs in Leposavic, Zubino Potok or, say, Serbs in Shilova, who for six days have no electricity, who went out on the street today to protest, and the security forces of Kosovo, which came out of the KLA terrorist organisation, are trying to break them down, to drive them out of the way. Will these laws allow Kosovo and Metohija, as part of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia, which is internationally recognised within the borders with Kosovo and Metohija, as is recognised by the Constitution, which you, I suppose, have also voted for... Will these laws be able to break and absorb the functioning of the Al-Qaeda network in Kosovo and Metohija? The services are saying seriously, the data and the facts, that she exists there. Madam Minister, let's get out of the AP Kosovo territory and talk about the south of Serbia itself. You see, I come from the Pcinian County. There are two municipalities where the OVPBM terrorist organisation has worked very openly and specifically over the past period. I ask you, will these laws, or these conventions and protocols, succeed in the legacy of the operation of this terrorist organization, being absorbed, neutralized? Would, for example, Madam Minister, this country, after adopting these laws, have the strength and courage to tear down or remove the monument that this terrorist organisation has raised to terrorists, where it writes, from the Serb enemy or criminal hands? It happens in the heart of Serbia. For some southern Serbia may not be the heart of Serbia, but the SRS sees it that way. I am asking you, Madam Minister, as a representative of the Government, and of course I am telling the entire government, whether these laws will give the government or you personally as a minister to use your authority and to order the competent state authorities to enter the village of Velika Trnovac and deal with all forms of crime present in that place in the territory of southern Serbia. I'll remind you that there's a drug and arms trafficking site in the village of Velika Trnovac. The money provided by the trade certainly served to fund terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, will by adopting a set of these laws, we be able to stand up to all of this as a drop in the sea, as part of a problem that seriously and objectively weighs us down; will we be able to deal with it? Unfortunately, we accept laws that we commit to, together with the EU or with EU institutions, allegedly trying to fight terrorism or any other phenomenon listed through this set of laws. We're committed to working with those who obviously don't want to see us as partners. Also, we commit to co-operation with those under whom, I say, mentoring moves have created a false terrorist state of Kosovo. We are committed to co-operation with a Europe that expects us to establish regional co-operation with a terrorist state, which expects us not to do, at the very least, anything that will slow down and stop their integration processes. Today these laws are ahead of us, rather than dealing with the essential problems of Serbian citizens, citizens who are objectively hard to live and who knows how they will live up to the challenges that will come next. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the SRS this and all the laws that come from Brussels, from Brussels who is not ready to see Serbia as a partner, who is not ready to respect two basic principles on which the EU is built, the principles of subsidiarity and reciprocity, for the Serbian Radical Party relations and co-operation with them will be unacceptable and any document coming from that kitchen will certainly not have the support of the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14679	Thank you. The word is Mr. Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14680	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since my colleagues have spoken, and they will talk about conventions concerning human trafficking, organised crime and terrorism, I will specifically refer to the proposal for a law confirming the Convention on High-Technological Crime. So, I'm going to comment on some of the members involved in data and system interference, falsification and computer fraud, copyright and related rights violations, as well as legal persons' responsibilities. Article 7 of this Convention on High-Technological Crime stipulates that any fraud, counterfeiting, altering and concealing computer data in order to obtain property benefit is considered to be a criminal offence in domestic law, which is punishable and incarcerated. How, then, is it possible that an author's work, let's say a computer program, which is protected and for which the author owns all property and moral rights, which lasts even after his death, as well as a legal license for his work, without knowledge, signature and trademark of the author, is being falsified and that, with the permission of the ministry, he is being sold abroad? Too bad there are no representatives of the Ministry of Finance, then the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who can give the right answer to this question. Also, how is it possible for people who, for example, are at the executive functions of a company or a company dealing with the production of computer programs to forge the signature, license and protection hologram of the author, and at that point, what is simply amazing, all the necessary export permits of three or four ministries that I have just listed? In less than 15 days, selling counterfeited, foreign author's work abroad, at three times the price of the sale price prescribed by law for the work, they gain wealth in their foreign exchange accounts. How is it possible for ministry administrators just to share export permits with a hologram of protected copyright for which the author owns the legal license, without checking all the information concerning the work, such as the author's signature, trademark and license? We are here now talking about accepting this international convention, and it is precisely the people who are sitting in the ministries, who are employed in the ministries by the main culprits who allow the theft of computer programs, because without checking, probably because of interest, they issue the necessary permits to export to the unauthorized. All of this indicates that Article 7. The Convention on High-Technological Crime is not complete, because although each party Party is aware of the existence of criminal responsibility for any dishonest intent and deception, natural persons, whether they act as individuals or part of a legal person, in agreement with a particular person from the Ministry, are largely in violation of this member of the Convention, and all in order to obtain the property benefit, regardless of the illegal sale, obtaining and issuing a false permit, counterfeiting copyright, signature and overall documentation, are considered a serious criminal offence and are being punished for the imprisonment. Also, we can only imagine what awaits us in the near future when it comes to high-tech crime, at an international level. Humanity slowly but certainly enters at a time when precisely thanks to high-tech crime, it will be exposed to the faceless alienation of property, funds from bank accounts, kidnapping of identity and theft of the personal data of every man on the planet Earth, as well as theft of state, economic and scientific secrets. What's that supposed to mean? Take, for example, our state of Serbia, where almost every adult citizen owns various cards, bank, official, identification, etc. Also, there is a large exchange of ID cards for new ones, which have a built-in biometric chip on which all the data on us is stored, and probably the data that is past our knowledge. Due to high technology, such data on the entire population of Serbia can be downloaded from unauthorized individuals or from secret services of other countries, which can be manipulated by them. It's one of the worst types of high-tech international crime. The question arises -- how will the state of Serbia then protect its interests and interests of its citizens, how will Serbia accuse, for example, of some secret service in Western Europe if it violates this convention, and they do so exactly after the approval of their governments? What is the system of protecting our data anyway? Is he so safe that he gives Serbian citizens confidence that their personal data will not be found in front of some commissioner in Brussels? Furthermore, modern banking is unimaginable without electronic transactions and any better organised high-tech criminal group will be able to clear the accounts of any bank's clients in any country. Even on one harmless case, we can see how much this type of crime is already present in Serbia today. How many examples have been stolen in the last few years by counterfeit bank cards, and that means forging chips, by a person who doesn't deal with professional computer technology, and yet they managed to make forgeries. The ATMs rob current accounts of citizens who have entrusted their money with saving banks, who are unable to keep that money from these modern technology pirates. Let's just remember, all of this involved faces that came from foreign countries. So, what was designed by the new world order slowly but certainly enters all the social life of the modern world. As things take place, one pressure on the Lord of Destiny's key in Brussels or Washington can run out of property, no money, no identity. A modern man will be conditioned to subdue his life and the survival of his family to chips, codes and cards, which someone will always keep under control. Since international conventions on the protection of human rights, conventions against torture and many others respect, let's say, the United States is well known to everyone. Secret prisons all over the world, the torture of prisoners, disenfranchisement, American bases, such as Bondsteel, which are passing stations for thousands of people who have lost their human rights under the auspices of the American state and power, only numbered and nothing more – in fact, it's a real picture and opportunity of the United States and their perception of democracy. How many Serbs have passed through the channels of American secret services and ended up in northern Albania, where they were taken in a monstrous way by vital organs and sold worldwide on the black market? It is known that there are seven billion euros worth of drugs in Kosovo and Metohija. That is the basic reason why the US and EU interest in Kosovo are so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14681	The word is made by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, Vice-President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14682	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, you have seen for yourself, we will use mostly these points of the agenda and a united debate to talk about a subject which, unfortunately, is open only the moment when the former prosecutor is so-called. The UN tribunal in The Hague, which was founded to, above all, be tried by Serbs to kill each other there and to carry out the process on false charges, as has been the case for six years now, against our president, Dr Vojislav Seselj... So, in the spring of last year, Carla del Ponte did not publish the book "Lov, Me and War Crimes", to anyone in Serbia from a formed so-called "The Hunt, Me and the War Crimes". The Special Prosecutor's Office wouldn't have thought to start with a story, let alone to deal with investigative activities when it comes to the trafficking of organs kidnapped, missing, and in a manly manner killed by our countrymen in camps, so-called. "Yellow House" and elsewhere in northern Albania. Since we are members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe... Right after that, but with exclusive help, I must stress, the delegations of the Russian State Duma, headed by Mr. Konstantin Kosachev, a group was formed; in fact, the Swiss senator and our colleague Dick Marti, as chairman of the Committee for the Protection of Human Rights of the Council of Europe, was designated last year to deal with these investigations. In order to show you who this is about, since it may already be Dick Marty's sound name for you right now, someone who doesn't have a more successful biography, I have to say that this Swiss has done a lot more when it comes to the crimes committed by the CIA and America in the context of hegemony and the creation of a new world order than it has done by the Serbian government since 2000. I don't know what his report will be, we certainly expect him at a regular spring session on April 26th of this year, but what I do know for sure is that Mr. Vukcevic is reluctant to talk about things that have failed to do current authorities, governments before this, as well as this one, especially because she, in the past, knew much earlier about what Carla del Ponte wrote in the book. So, I have to go back to the fall of 2000 when, immediately after the DOS's arrival to power, 1,300 Shipatarian terrorists and villains were released, headed by Fljor Brovin, and let's see why the Council of Europe adopted all these conventions on the fight against terrorism during this period. According to our Serbian folk, until "the bear dances in front of someone's door", he does not know what it looks like, when it happened on September 11, 2001, from this pay phone, the president of our party, Dr Vojislav Seselj, told you nicely, since we were imposed sanctions, since it was a cause and you saw the other day that in his official report, they listed it as a humanitarian campaign, that our country was bombed for 78 days and that our civilians were killed – you will see that the West is going to shake because of the fact that they did not recognise that so. The Kosovo crisis, as they have called it all years ago, and then tried to impose Rambuje on us, so when our people referendumally refused to be the whole territory of Serbia, then they said it was something that was only happening there, closing their eyes to the fact that fundamentalism is in such a, mujahedin form, ballistics, which are carried out by Shipatarian terrorists, infamous KLA members, something that exists, just under other names, in the same extreme forms and in other countries of the world. So immediately concerned Europe began to think and to take concrete measures to protect itself from growing terrorism, so, just before that, counterpart Marina Ragus, the German government sent its three GNI agents, who submitted a report to the Bundestag political committee four months ago. They were sent from one of the most developed countries in Western Europe, which was the most funded and assisted by Shiptarian villains during the period of creation and their quasistate, i.e. the dream of having great Albania. They admitted that they had unequivocally determined that Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj and Ceku were criminals dealing with human trafficking, arms and drug distribution. Then immediately after that, our war crimes prosecutor, Mr. Vukcevic, allegedly headed this way to investigate these crimes personally by Dick Marti. However, apart from those advertising and arrests a few days ago, we have not heard from Mr Vukcevic at all what is with the missing nine pages of a falsified UNMIK report, reportedly denied by UNMIK representatives that they were torn out, as Ivanko said, from the actual report. What exactly is the truth? It is true that the number ranged from at least 300 to over 1,000 of our countrymen male, beastly killed in death camps in Albania, for which the representatives of the Association of Families Kidnapped and Missing Persons have been sought for years. Their representatives spoke to us several times and waited for us outside the National Assembly building, but never (and I repeat that again) until the publication of the book by Carla del Ponte, none of the official Serbian authorities wanted concrete work. What's that gonna mean, Mrs. Malovic? As Mr. Dick Marty is expected to visit Serbia at the end of this month and since he is extensively involved in this work, and he has managed to expose all those plots that the CIA prepared, and secret camps, forbidden flights, shooting and everything else that you could read in his report, tell us what you as a state will do, or what we as a state are going to present to the official rapporteur of the Council of Europe, to which you have reached that knowledge. Are we going to say... Obviously, since such a power, in the day when a delegation was adopted in the State Department, made up of Cypriot villains, when 92.5 years of prison were handed down to our Serbs who heroically defended Kosovo and Metohija, and to the political and military and police summit, you kept it quiet. And not only that, it has been 15 days, and this assembly is not discussing the Serbian Radical Party's initiative (although we have the right to do so according to your dictatorial rules) on the effects and consequences of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. If the Serbs have received a total of over 900 years of imprisonment in The Hague, and when these villains give you all the verdicts by the end, it will be 1,000 years, say the DOS gentlemen and you of the Democratic Party who were celebrating your coup, in fact, an accident for Serbia that came to power from October 5th to this day, how did you, how did you protect the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija? How did you help and think it was a sin to forget all these victims? You've obviously forgotten them. So we've given you a lot of arguments today. Not only that, not only this official BND report, which speaks of the direct involvement of the entire Ramush Haradinaj family, which killed nine witnesses before it was released and released from The Hague tribunal. Tell us when you're going to go out with a full report to the Serbian public and what are you ready to present to Dick Marty? So, as your colleague and as a member of our delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and above all as a Serbian Radical, I have no reason to doubt the report that Mr Marti will present, especially because he is in the grip of one of the biggest secret organizations, and above all, organizations that participate in the creation of the UN tribunal, which is the US intelligence service of the CIA. But that's not enough. We will be investing any amendments, we will ask the Russian brothers for help, thanks to which it has been found on the agenda and a group is formed, but we are asking for a responsible report from the government of the Republic of Serbia, not only when someone should appear from international organisations or when one of the disgruntled Serbs, or members of their families, knocks on your door. Just to let you know, Mrs Malovic, Mr Novakovic, in the village of Šilovo near Gjilan, there is no electricity in Kosovo Pomoravlje for six days. I just got a call from one of the members of our army who heroically defended Kosovo and Metohija, who, along with our countrymen, is on the way to Gjilana - Bujanovac; they have blocked the road and will not get away from it, because they have no basic conditions for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14683	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14684	Dear Members of Parliament, Madam Minister, I ask the question why this Additional Protocol has not been confirmed before with the Convention on High-Technological Crime, which refers to the incrimination of acts of racist and xenophobic nature carried out through computer systems. Serbs, as a satanic people, had one of these protocols previously needed for the primary defence of national dignity. The various websites of NGOs and individuals from the environment, but unfortunately also from Serbia, are filled with offensive writings at the expense of the Serb people. However, the question is how this protocol will apply to the Convention. Will its application be objective and will the state treat all criminal acts objectively, regardless of the religious and nationality of the attacked person and institutions? I fear that the tendencies of this convention will, however, be to conduct the training of the people, and especially of the Serbian people, which has been announced and released from the community of European peoples during the 1990s. The Serbs remain ugly, dirty and evil boys. From Western ideological internationals, even xenophobia, i.e. hatred for foreigners and foreign influences, is imposed on Serbs. The truth is, however, quite the opposite. In the history of the 19th and 20th centuries, Serbs embraced the most foreign ideological and political influences, particularly the ideology of liberal democracy, and then communism. In fact, in the first half of the 20th century, the Serbian elite was all ideological and political with the ideology of civil liberalism, so-called. Western democracy. Almost all of the more prominent Serbs of the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Yugoslavia were members of liberal organisations, such as the Mason, the Rotarians, the Yugoslav Falcons, the Scouts; these are all English exposures. Serbian state legislation was in line with Western liberal state-law traditions. In the assembly often attacked, the Serbian Orthodox Church also accepted the religious liberalisation of Western Protestant and ancient Catholic churches. The Serbian church was even in brotherly relations with the Anglican church, even the unification of these churches due to a joint fight against the Vatican. It's not about the conservative medieval church, so it's about how it's often being attacked by individuals here, it's about the church of pro-liberal religious principles. Unfortunately, in 1945, Serbs again became the greatest believers of the communist international compared to Croats, Slovenians and Muslims. Serbs believed in communism with their hearts, and these others, with national fanaticism, entered the communist ranks for achieving a certain national state-of-the-art interest. So there are numerous examples of Serbian internationalism, not xenophobia. The Serbs fully internationalised their language and rejected the old folk terms, which the Croats had just accepted as a new nation (for example, the names of the months: January, February etc) and accepted the Latin terms, although Byzantine, Orthodox people. To a good extent, Serbs rejected their Cyrillic letter and accepted a Latin letter in public life without protest. It should be pointed out that Serbs remember their national being only in times of naked struggle for national survival, or aggression to Serbian national spaces. But the Serbian national feeling again falls very quickly and after the establishment of peace, Serbs turn completely into an international being that puts faith in another plan, at least in most cases. Such Serbs, open to open-mindedness, foreign internationals, or NGOs impose xenophobia, racism, chauvinism, and even fascism and Nazism, of which Serbs, unfortunately, suffered the most. In this additional protocol with the Convention, it is pointed out that all human beings are born free and equal to their dignity and rights. Great point, but it's just a dead letter on paper. However, the evil Serbs were singled out as a European remethylative factor just because they defended their elemental national survival, a historical right that was taken away from them alone. Even Separatist, Cominternino and Wilson's right to self-determination has been recognised to all new peoples of the former SFRY except Serbs. For Serbs, it is a very important member of the 6th to talk about denial, reduction, approval of genocide and war crimes. Normally, everyone knows the extent to which crimes against the Serb people have been committed, and to what extent these crimes from Croats have been reduced, but also from Serbs themselves, unfortunately. The Protocol along with the Convention states that domestic international law should provide legal answers to the propaganda of racist and xenophobic nature made through computer systems. But what about legal responses to anti-Serbian propaganda sites in science, culture or religion? NGOs are working intensively in the scientific field. They create similar classes for them, run anti-Serbian teaching policies. Some time ago, I asked a parliamentary question about the international work of the Faculty of Law; it's a private university. If their site is viewed, it will be seen that the Union's Law Faculty is ideologically and politically poisoning the youth with its nadadal anti-Serb and anti-state interpretation of legal and state history. It is a violation of Serbian law to the level of the primitive right of a poor country. After reviewing their site, it is clear what an international legal science will be taught at the university, since the range and role model of Croatian law science will be more highlighted, which has no traditional legal basis since the independent Croatian state was not in 1941, 1991, and thus any personal Croatian law. Computer sites are full of attacks on Serbian authors who, based on documentary, exact research, are reviewing communist and socio-ist history, a neoliberal history that is filled with attacks on imaginary grandeur. The attacks on SRS ideology are countless, but due to limited time, I won't talk much about them. I mention only severe attacks on the books of Prof. Vojislav Seselj, especially his book "Roman Catholic Crime Project of an artificial Croatian nation", which is an xenophobic, racist and fascist book for NGOs. A similar tone on some sites is about my book "Serbian Roman Catholic - So-called Croats". Thus, the publicist Srdjan Teshin of kickinda writes on his website about promoting my book in kickinda, quoting: "The most shameful cultural event, which overshadowed the little good that took place on the Viking cultural scene during 2007, is certainly the promotion of pseudo-history, anti-civilisation and chauvinist books 'Serbian Roman Catholics - so-called Croats'". However, the historical truth is backed by numerous Vatican and Austrian documents for the latter, the spread of chauvinistic and fascist ideas and the calling for the restoration of enmity between the two brotherly peoples, according to him, which has never fought in history. I guess that's what he thinks. It is enough to recall the indictment of Serbia's Karan from Gospić, who read about this speaker yesterday, and see what pseudo-history arguments the Croatian district court in Gospić points out in its verdict; for example, the historically invented fact that Serbs with the Turks have occupied so-called. Croatia, which, however, is not available in the 15th - 16th century. In Serbia, such a defender of many Croatian ideas continues to write unpunishedly, even calling on the state authorities to arrest me. Teshin is demanding that a Serbian historian be arrested and convicted of lying. It is an open threat via the computer system, as pointed out in Article 4 of this Protocol. Teshin is making public insults through the computer system, that's Article 6. In fact, I am not as important as the historian, the attack on me is being carried out because of my side of the NGO to simply attack the ideology of the SRS and Professor Vojislav Seselj. After the attack on my book, he goes down with the same dictionary and on the book of Vojislav Seselj. Foreign ideological internationals have their own youth departments, Bolsheviks, who do not prejudge from discrediting individual organisations and state institutions. Where are their paroles on the common culture of peace, dialogue and co-operation, as well as the tolerances of all political, religious and national differences, I would add respect for the scientific results that they, like laymen, uninformed individuals, are irrevocably criticising? Such an NGO is also a verbal militant association of the Youth for Human Rights Initiative, which aims to, you can think, create and promote mechanisms to confront the recent past in the former Yugoslavia. What are those factors that can evaluate the validity of historical documents, historical books? On their site, there was also a goebbel attack on my mentioned book, I would not mention it. So there's a scientific discredition on the sites of certain historians, intellectuals, high-scientists. Such attacks deserve the initiation of a court case for the defense of honor and dignity of all those attacked, etc. Since I have to finish, I would like to add, in the end, because of the offensive attacks on the authors of the books, I personally support the adoption of the protocol with the Convention, but I am expressing the skepticism that it will be applied objectively, that it will be applied without hatred and bias. I doubt the measures proposed will defend national dignity in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14685	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14686	I believe that the public must be informed why these laws on the confirmation of these conventions and protocols in two areas are on the agenda: one is terrorism and terrorist financing, and the other is high-tech crime. For the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and Boris Tadic, that is the most important. It doesn't matter milk, it doesn't matter meat, it doesn't matter jobs, it's not about pensions, it's not about education, it's about one mere political declaration to Olija Rehn, Javier Solana and others, that it stands firmly in the way of Euro-Atlantic integration. Now there is no need for any particular prize issue, but every reasonable man in the Republic of Serbia knows the answer to the question of how much the international community respects international legal acts and international standards when it comes to Serbia. Do you respect the UN Charter? You don't respect yourself. Is Security Council Resolution 1244 respected? You don't respect yourself. Then what's to be respected? What does that have to do with us? They're bound by some of their interests. Their interest is to atomise Serbia's national space, atomise Serbia, bring Serbia into Belgrade's pasture, which included representatives of the government, led by Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Bojan Pajtic and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. That concept of regionalization that's abandoned they're reviving. To pass the psychopathological concept of the AP Vojvodina statute, they go to Jagodina, they go to Nis, so they say – we will build regions, and you will be represented as regions, just like Vojvodina, in some international organisations. You're breaking Serbia, the citizens of Serbia know very well. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know well is that where you boast the result is negative. You said, "Fiat" came. It's not gonna happen. You said, free action – a minus appears. You said economic development – 60,000 companies are blocked. This year, 300,000 people will be out of work because of Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas, Bojan Pajtic, Miki Rakic, this state security Vukadinovic. The fact is that media manipulation is being manipulated by stupiding citizens of the Republic of Serbia to support this "jaundice" that prevailed in the Republic of Serbia. What's going on with these conventions? I'm opening the question, what does the new Constitution mean to confirm some convention, what obligations do we take? What are those other people from abroad who signed it? Can anyone imagine Javier Solana applying one of these conventions, or this Ollie Reno? Let me just remind you, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that you know what you've been facing since the "yellow" rule since 25 January 2001: terrorists were once terrorists, and then Nebojsa Covic came and said they were extremists. The extremists mean they're exaggerating. Let me remind you, sometimes Holbrooke had to take off his shoes and his stinking socks to talk to some who were terrorists until then, and then became liberators. What do they have to do with it? By blindly listening to them, you are destroying Serbia. Somebody tell me why this is a priority, that today has to be adopted. Why did he have to adopt the Rules of Procedure a few days ago? Why has the whole 2008 been obstructed by Boris Tadic and his mentors, not to vote for a resolution concerning Eulex? Because you called Eulex, because you're destroying the Republic of Serbia, because you're trying to dissuade the authentic national interests of this people and promote the damage. You're recognizable by damage. It started by voting from Bodrum, so you said it was democracy. You arrested 12,000 people, it's democracy. Fight terrorism. You're talking to terrorists. Which one of yours is going to Brezovic to negotiate with them? Do you know who the MPs are in the Kosovo and Metohija congregations, or Kosovo, as they say? All terrorists themselves. Make their list and check and compare with that list you released in early 2001. You support terrorism. You made it possible for terrorists to become gentlemen. Ramush Haradinaj, peace mediator. Isn't that enough shame for all of you, to raise your voice, to say – Serbia is a state, Serbia is a republic, Serbia is the founder of the UN, Serbia has some right to fight for rights? What do we need to do? I guess the least we can do is see that the rules change, guarantee the right to guarantee freedom, guarantee the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When you adopt this, how are you going to apply it to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija when you are forbidden to go there? You're forbidden to go there. It will be for you in a few months and in Vojvodina. Your Pajtic is the next of kin. Go to his Mosha villa on the Mount of Frust, and see what kind of guys are gathering there, what they're doing. Play some patriots, play some power. You are neither government nor patriots, you are only destroying the Republic of Serbia. I'm not going to give you the satisfaction of misusing any of my words so you can lift a media halabuca out of it. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you who monitor the transmission, remind all your friends and relatives who do not follow this transmission that only on the Second Channel, when the direct transmission of the session of the National Assembly, you can hear the truth. It's not in controlled media held by Gilas. This country is run by Manter, Soros, Solana. They're writing something, and these guys here are shaking and playing some gentlemen. They only play gentlemen as long as the media announces, so they can cheat. They're cheating on all of you. This is bad authority. This is NATO Infantry. They line up what the bombers failed to finish, and they're doing it very effectively by cheating on you that you think they're doing something good. They destroyed all institutions in the Republic of Serbia. No institution works. All the money was taken out by foreign banks. Let me remind you, in October, when the 2008 budget rebalances, we asked the question – who draws the foreign exchanges? Why does Jelasic protect that course, impose foreign exchanges, issue foreign exchanges? You were smiling. Now it's become the main question. I asked you a few months ago if it's true that between eight and nine billion is more consumption, illegal consumption, for 2008. You took it off the site right away. Now it's an important topic. Look what they're doing, Monday we'll have a chance on the Committee on Local Self-Government to let the public know what's going on in the City Assembly. Does anyone know why measures are being introduced? It's not a topic anymore. Now, the theme is whether someone put on a shirt, if someone got hold of a microphone, whether the chairman has good vision, whether he hears well and how you're going to publish in the media. Don't trust those printed media, all of it, Gilas and this group are keeping under their control. You're looking for the real truth at the National Assembly. And you go out and deny it; go out and state some reason why it is not true what we say. At any cost, you want to confirm something. What do you prove that way? Adherence to European values. What are those values? Well, the European Union has taken Kosovo from you! Twenty-two countries have recognised an independent Kosovo, how can you talk to them? It's like someone killed your kid and you say, "Come to the coffee shop, drink a coffee, turkey dots don't work, we push on." That's what Serbian citizens want to know. This is this power, this is this democracy... (President: Please finish. )......................................................................................................... This is a definition of European values. The European value they bear is Serbia's disappearance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14687	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask whether they want the President's word, or whether they want representatives or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on High-Technological Crime, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Searching, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime and on the financing of terrorism, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Convention on High-Technological Crime relating to the Incrimination of the Part of the Rastistic and Xenophobic Nature Done Through Computer Systems, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Human Trade, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, Proposal for a Law on the Prosecution of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Denmark on Facilitate Procedures for the issue of Visas. Based on Article 85, I'm setting a break for an hour. We continue our work at 3 p.m. on the third point of the united debate, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14688	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and DEFINITIONS OF EXPRIATION (principles) You have adopted the bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: Parliament group For European Serbia – one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS MP group – one hour, nine minutes and 36 seconds; MP group G17 plus – 28 minutes and 48 seconds; Parliament group DSS - Vojislav Kostunica – 25 minutes and 12 seconds; MP group Forward Serbia – 24 minutes; MP group SPS - 18 minutes; MP group LDP – 14 minutes and 24 seconds; Parliament group Nova Serbia – 10 minutes and 48 seconds; MEP group of minorities – eight minutes and 24 seconds and MEP group of PUPS – six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MP Vladan Batic, who is not a member of any parliamentary group, has the right to speak for up to five minutes. I ask the MPs' groups to apply for a word with the order of MPs, if they have not already done so. I would like to inform you that, on this point in the agenda of the parliamentary group, it will be: MP Sreto Peric – SRS; others have not so far come forward and there are no other proposals for authorised representatives. According to Article 142, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Diana Dragutinovic, the finance minister, want a word? Yeah. I'm happy to give her my word. Here you go. I'd like to ask you to do this part of the agenda after 6:00 p.m. That won't be long, because we have a direct transmission until 19.00. I guess we'll end up at that interval. Here you go, Mrs. Dragutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14689	Thank you. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act, which the Government has sent to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption. There are a number of reasons why amendments and additions to this law are proposed. I would like to remind you that the current law was passed long ago in 1995, and that with the adoption of a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and a series of new laws it was necessary to implement a terminology alignment. Of course, these are more formal or, if you want me to put it that way, formal legal reasons, and I would still focus more on the essential reasons of the supplemental proposal and the amendments to the Expropriation Act. I would like to divide the essential reasons into three basic groups: firstly, the expansion of the circle of entities that can be users of expropriation; secondly, the addition of provisions on the possibility of determining public interest and thirdly, the addition of provisions governing compensation for exploited immovableities. As regards the expansion of a circle of entities that may be users of expropriation, in addition to current users such as the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, units of local self-government, public funds, public enterprises, it is envisaged that the expropriation can also be done for the purposes of companies founded by public enterprises, as well as for business companies with majority state capital founded by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government. It is also possible that the service in the expropriation process can be established not only for the benefit of citizens, but also for all expropriation users. The second fundamental reason for the amendment and addition of this law is to extend cases where general interest can be determined. An existing law of public interest in expropriation can be established if the expropriation of immovableity is necessary for the construction of objects, for various activities, and, among other things, for the exploitation of the mine treasure. However, during the exploitation of mineral raw materials, not only works are being built, but works are being done to dig mineral raw materials. An example of this is the coal mining base of Kolubara. Therefore, amendments and additions to this law provide that public interest can also be established for the performance of works. Also, performing works is more common than building objects not only in the area of mineral raw materials mining, but also in order to protect the environment and protect against natural disasters. In addition, when it comes to the production of coal mining works, resulting in the migration of settlements in order to spread surface spears (e.g. Vreoci villages), and given the fact that the owners are exclusively asking for other land to be allocated as a form of compensation to them for the purpose of moving, it was necessary to extend the determination of public general interest and the acquisition of land to be paid to former owners who move. Finally, in cases where the Republic of Serbia assumes the obligation to provide non-financial roles in that company to invest in a joint venture or to establish a joint establishment of a company, the possibility of establishing a public interest in expropriation is envisaged. The third group of essential reasons is also the adjustment of the fee. The new amendments to the Law provide that, in the case of an expropriation of agricultural land, for the construction of liner infrastructure facilities, the primary form of compensation for that land is to be given in the possession of the relevant agricultural land of the same culture and class of appropriate value, in the same place or near environment. Only if the user of the expropriation is unable to offer such land is the fee determined in cash. This type of compensation was granted because the areas covered by the construction of Corridor 10 had an unreal increase in the market price of square metre of agricultural land, which would indeed significantly increase construction. In addition, it provides for the right of the former owner and members of his household whose housing has been exploited for the exploitation of mineral raw materials to be awarded a single building plot within the total fee, with the cumulative fulfillment of two conditions – that due to the expropriation, practically the detachment of a part of the settlement or settlement in the whole and that at the time of the decision, he actually resided in the facility. There are two more groups of changes. One group of changes refers, in practice, to who assesses the market value of immovable property, which is the authority responsible for determining the tax on the transfer of absolute rights to immovable property. Finally, the fifth group of changes, which is not to this extent essential as mentioned, is a change in the very process of expropriation that aims to actually speed up the very expropriation. All proposed changes and additions practically aim at creating conditions to measure the expropriations that the state is carrying out in the public interest in line with economic growth and the development of the country. This is a really better law than the applicable law, so I urge you to support this proposal and pass the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14690	Thank you, Madam Minister. Does the Financial Committee's rapporteur National MP, Branko Ljiljak, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Reporter of the Legislative Committee? No, I don't. ( ) Representatives, or presidents of parliamentary groups? Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14691	Thank you. The law amending and supplementing the Expropriation Act, unfortunately, is another evidence of the inability of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to regulate or propose the resolution of this legal matter in a proper manner. Of all the things we've just heard, one thing's true. The bill carries out some formal language alignment with new terminology, especially in the area of property rights, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Everything else that is mentioned here is factually true, these are the declared objectives, as Mrs Diana Dragutinovic read them, but the question is whether there are certain hidden goals in this law. Even if the objectives of this law are not hidden, the question arises whether the goals that are to be achieved by this law are achieved by good means in this law. The answer to this question, unfortunately for whoever proposes this law, is negative. Therefore, the stated objectives are not defended by adequate means in this law, nor are the solutions provided for in this law in some cases compatible with the constitutional order, i.e. The very Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the concept of the protection of essential values such as property, because you know that in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia property is considered an unimpaired law, which can only be restricted by law and for the reasons set out there. There are certain solutions that have made it easy to go over the very reasons of the bill, which should be distracted in order to determine or easily see that it is an unnecessary and excessive limitation of property rights. I'll try to touch a few segments in this law, and you'll see that I'm right. So, in fact, I have already said this, this bill, first of all, is not written exactly correctly, nor has much been taken into account that this law is part of a comprehensive legal order, a comprehensive system, and in defense of the rule of law and the rule of law. We have another law that is somehow connected to this law in one segment, that's the Law on Planning and Construction, and that law regulates the way land can be supplied to state property. There are more modes, ways of getting land into state property, and one of these ways is this one. It says there is no land available for state property without a plan. This law introduces another modality, provides an alternative opportunity for land to be supplied to state property and by proving public interest by means of a contract establishing a particular company that will carry out an activity on the ground, which will be assessed as an activity of public interest. Regardless of the public interest issue is being spread by this law, it is not disputed. Therefore, this element that a possible issue of public interest can be treated differently is undeniable. But, look now, a company founded by the state having a large share in it or founded by a public enterprise can carry out certain actions that will be interpreted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, because it triggers the initiative, as a public interest. In that case, according to the provisions of this law, no draft act is required. A plan act to realise that interest, in order to exploit someone's immovableity, say land, is not necessary. It is, therefore, enough for the government of the Republic of Serbia to assess it on the basis of the contract. It's just not good. That's not good because it's not in accordance with another regulation. Then it was necessary to go simultaneously with an amendment to both regulations in order to resolve the issue. So it's not impossible, it can be done like that, but we can't make this mess in the legal system. What is definitely not good here, regardless of whether the contract is the basis for the establishment of a company, that it is estimated that this company will carry out certain activities in a specific place, in a certain way, which would be in line with the public interest, is that here the assessment of the public interest is left to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the proposal only for this activity that has been carried out, regardless of who does this activity. If this concept of a company can do so is introduced, then it was worth saying one more thing – that this company must be registered, its activity must be in the public interest, you know, it's not enough just this. We can imagine that a public company will establish another company and that state capital will be a significant share in a company, but that there is also a private interest behind it. It's practically privatization of expropriation, after all. If we connect it to Article 17. The proposal of this law and we see that it is also likely to be a certain manipulation of administrative transfer, then it follows that someone whose land has been exploited, for example, can be disavuisted; not him, but the state and the state interest can be desavuised in such a way that the right would continue to be passed on regardless. Who knows where it's gonna end. We have no proof that the provisions proposed here will be properly applied, in accordance with what Mrs. Diana Dragutinovic told us here. What she said sounds great, but if we read the provisions of the laws proposed, then it can lead to certain manipulations on the ground and certain abuses. What is also amazing in this bill is that it is predicted that the person to whom it has been expunged, for example, the land has a five-year term after the conclusion of the fee agreement to seek an annulment of the expropriation solution. There's another condition, it doesn't matter, it's mostly five years. That's an amazing thing. So the Constitution guarantees property rights. The expropriation procedure shall not be initiated by the owner of the facility or land. Why would it be in the interest of the owner of an object or land to initiate an expropriation procedure? It is driven in the public interest, and the expropriation process is suffered by the owner of the facility. Does the owner of the property or land want land or an object to sell? No, I don't. If that's what he wanted, I'd sell it in some private or legal business, in some bonding contract he'd alienate it. He doesn't want it, he's forced to sell his land on market terms because it's what the state wants him to do, because a solution has been made for that. It just means he can't be presumed to be comfortable with it. Even when he concludes the compensation contract, even then he is not a voluntary party to the contract, he was forced to do so. The constitution of this state protects the right of property, it is uncut. We can't say that someone whose land has been exploited, which has never been brought into force for the purpose of which it was exploited (not a building, is not realised) within the time limit set by law, loses the right to so-called. An expropriation solution because it's been five years. Well, where did you hear and see it? If you have heard and seen this somewhere, it certainly does not agree with the basic legal principles and postulates of a democratic state that protects property rights as one of the fundamental rights. If any of these amendments are intended to be accepted, after this debate of the amendment, they are already handed over, immediately I urge you to accept the DSS amendment that provides for erasure and, let me say, the stupidity you wrote in the bill, because it is simply amazing that someone is being prevented from asking for expropriation (he or his successor) at any time, if the land is not brought in for the purpose or, apparently, within the time limits set by the law, it may be. Why do we have to set a limit to the user's expropriation? Because expropriation is an exception, which is determined in the public interest and which is the public interest that what needs to be done on someone's land, which is why it is taken away with compensation, which is actually the essence of expropriation, because its interest is hindered, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by the user of expropriation, from the public interest at that moment. If there is a public interest, then it is a public interest that what is done as a work is done as soon as possible, to be completed as soon as possible. Ms. Minister said in her opening statement, that among other things, one of the goals that this was intended to achieve is to speed up the process. That's not controversial. Each of us would like to see these actions go on for a short while, to get it over with quickly and to realize the public interest. Here we talk about the situation – what if it is not done? This land cannot remain mostly state-owned, if it is seized with compensation (because it is the legal nature and essence of expropriation) wants to return it to its property. You know, someone's inherited some land somewhere since their chukunda. Someone might be glad, you know, there's an effect value to things. It doesn't matter if someone gets another land or a cash payment for it. Where do you get the idea that in the bill you limit the right of people to demand that at some point expropriation, unless that expropriation is realised, undo? I couldn't even dream of getting something like that as a proposal from this government of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of all the faults it has, which we've been talking about for months. So, if we want to talk seriously on this subject, then it was necessary to prepare a serious bill, which must be in agreement with the Constitution and constitutional principles, must be in agreement with the other legal regulations of this country, rather than sticking horns with everyone. The government of the Republic of Serbia should have passed an appropriate proposal to amend the Law on Planning and Construction and to give it in the package because it is related. Also, it should have been kept in mind that certain provisions of this law are not such as to create confusion or interference when it comes to not conflict of interest (I am saying this because of the public, that people understand better), but to conflict of competence. You have the Ministry of Finance which will propose a question of public interest, i.e. it will raise a question of public interest, and then this bill proposes that the assessment of market prices in the case of expropriation be carried out by the authority responsible for determining the tax on the transfer of absolute rights to immovable property. How can he do that? I'm sorry, okay, maybe that makes sense to you, but it doesn't make sense. It is not logical that this is the case, i.e. the authority that raises the question of public interest in a particular case, be essentially the authority that will determine the market price of the compensation. It can't be. It may be in your head, but in the minds of those people who want to make a reasonable legal order, that can't be the case. Maybe you like it, maybe it's great for you, but it's not great. If there are such examples in parallel law, it doesn't mean that every case is in parallel law that you've seen somewhere brilliant, and it doesn't mean that that's the way we have to go. There's something in the legal order that needs to be protected. Obviously it doesn't matter to you. It is important to declare the goal, it is important to see how to achieve this goal with the bill you have proposed, and what will be broken, what kind of cermes in the legal system will do to this, what it will do to confront and how this bill, if this law is adopted in this amended form, will damage the basic postulates and values that the Constitution of Serbia defends, it is not important at all. You know, one thing is when you go out for a pay phone and you talk about a declared goal, I'd be willing to sign with you everything you've said about the declared objectives of this law, everything, it's not disputed, the problem is technique. The problem is whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia – I don't think of you personally, you are certainly the head of state authority as minister – whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in general, whether the Ministry is set up in this way, with its competences and competent people in it, to present to us a technically valid proposal, which does not have this flaw that I have pointed out. These flaws are unquestionable. We can't argue about them. A different view of these issues that I have raised here does not reveal the difference between understanding of certain legal concepts and their meaning and their use in life, but reveals the difference in knowledge, that's the point of the story. Now let's see what you want to defend here, that's what we're interested in. So we've submitted one group of amendments, I think there's a dozen of them, and we expect you to adopt a large number of amendments. If you adopt them, and they don't touch the essence of the intensity of this text, then it's a law that can be relatively acceptable. The way you wrote it, if it's adopted in a changed form, it's not just... In any case, we won't vote for him, of course, because it's your proposal, but in this other case, it's a disaster. We will not vote in favour of this bill, because you have passed a law that is a terrible dibidos, which is a disaster for the legal order in Serbia. Of course, I thought this was my exposure enough for this principle debate. We agreed at the DSS Parliament Club that only I would speak in this principled search. We'll wait for a debate in particular, when amendments are discussed, and then we'll talk about individual solutions and what it is that we resent to an individual member of the law and what we think would be better if that member of the law were written. Then you have the right, as Minister of Government, to directly respond to every proposal we make and every suggestion we make when it comes to amendments that have been tabled. I suggest, first of all, that you withdraw this bill, return it to the government and put it on the agenda and propose amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, if you have thought about it at all and if anything similar is prepared in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to coordinate and make some meaningful and compatible provisions. Then, when making the new proposal, take care of the principles guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and then come to the Serbian Parliament. If you do not, another option is to consider carefully the amendments that have been submitted to this bill and to save what is to be saved. So much of me for now, and I'll see you in the discussion of the details, when we bring individual objections to individual members. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14692	Thank you. Among the representatives of the parliamentary groups first, Mrs Jasmina Milosevic of the SPS-JS Group, followed by Mr Sreto Peric, and Mrs Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14693	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the Government and fellow MPs, if you did not listen carefully to the minister, I can only repeat that the necessity of adopting this law on amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act is reflected in the need to bring the existing law into line with the new problems in the area of property relations, which occurred from 1996 until today. The need is also reflected in the creation of a legal basis for overcoming the problems that have arisen by the application of the existing law. De facto, it is in the general interest of citizens that the existing law is certainly to be improved in general and in line with the Constitution. This explicitly means that we won't come into situations so that the solutions don't comply with our highest state act. One can even interpret that one of the solutions may not be in accordance with the Constitution and that all of this ends in the Constitutional Court and that all of these complaints are dismissed; we have some kind of inevitability that is called loss, and the loss is seen in a waste of time, and therefore we are just wasting time, and we are practically not solving the problem we have, and this is an optimal solution that is seen in the adoption of a good law. In Article 58(1), paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The constitution is said to guarantee the peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law. It is also said in point 2 that the right of property can be taken away or restricted only in the public interest established under the Law. I think, as the promoter himself says, it is also important to expand areas where public (general) interest can be used and because of new forms of investment that are essential for our country. Here I can give as an example of the construction of Corridor 10, and not only by road but also by rail, which, by estimate, points to the necessity of expropriation of one part of agricultural land. The construction of Corridor 10 as the most important component has time, and the loss of it can be achieved by the absence of this addition to the Expropriation Act. Everything that's being built and done has its logistics and must have its logistics. One of the basic logistics methods is the famous ‘just in time’ method. Therefore, we will come to a good law that at the right time, in the right place and in the right move, we will get maximum. As far as the corridor itself is concerned, we will get, in practice, time savings, and we will not waste ourselves on other things, but by applying the law we will get to the quality time that will be spent solely on building this corridor. The regulation of expropriation as an emergency measure gives a contribution to legal certainty and ensures public availability, since the law creates equal rights and obligations as a general legal act for all entities in the expropriation process. The redefining of Article 3 of this Act regulates the question of the category of users of expropriation, in the sense of compliance with existing state arrangements and amendments to the rules governing the form of the organisation of legal entities that have so far been users of expropriation. I must also mention Article 5, where it is proposed that, in the case of agricultural land expropriation, for the construction of significant liner infrastructure facilities (as I said, one of these is also a Corridor 10) as compensation for this exploited land to be owned by someone else, appropriate, same or similar by culture or class. If this proposal does not give rise to an adequate solution, of course the compensation can be in cash, at market prices. The minister herself explained who it would be to define the market price. I can't argue that in practice there may not be some situation where maybe this law won't have an adequate answer. However, I believe that the adoption of the law on restitution and environmental protection will still fill some gap there and we will not have that newly created void and the part where this law will not give us a concrete answer; especially when it comes to the part relating to environmental protection law, there will be no degradation of the environment, because the user of the expropriation is obliged to re-culpation of that land. If we take into account European experiences, it indicates that the expropriation is not misused, but is applied in explicit situations. I can give an example of Italy where it was used in the case of construction of national highways, railways, expansion of accumulation lakes, etc. Therefore, if we are seeking European integration and European laws, we must comply with the same and act accordingly. I would like to stress once again that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the budget. The SPS-JS Parliament Club will support this bill in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14694	Mr. Sreto Peric, representative of the SRS parliamentary group. I called for the session to be attended by Marijana Karadzic, an assistant finance minister. I welcome her.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14695	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, Madam Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is one of the few laws in which the proposing did not call for the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to European integration, that it is necessary to adopt this law in order to be able to count on EU accession. It's not a dispute for us. The Expropriation Act is the law needed for the Republic of Serbia. This is a partial solution. Your argument in just a few minutes can only please those MPs who have not even read the proposal of this law. The one who read the video is that there has been a series of problems that have existed so far in practice, which are being opened with this law. Your argument was very correct. You said that the reasons for the adoption of the law on amendments and amendments to the Expropriation Act can be divided into two groups. One group is made of cosmetics, which are not essential, I'd say they come from the Constitution itself, first from the provision of Article 58. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it now knows the term "public interest". Then you said, for the sake of time-saving, because of the expansion of the opportunity for those to make demands for expropriation. In my discussion, I'm going to try to convince you that you haven't taken care of that enough. It will be possible to correct this through the acceptance of the SRS amendment. Essentially, we have no problems, the SRS Parliamentary Group, when it comes to the laws on the agenda of our parliament, but there is a problem that no order is known, when the law comes on the agenda. Therefore, if you are staff and you have courage, you should suggest to the prime minister that he go to a good host in Serbia and see how he would run this government, not entering to take away his constitutional right, because none of you could see any good farmer, a farmer who sowed corn in June. So that's not what they're doing. The government has some kind of draft legislative acts that no one living in Serbia is clear when the law comes to order, when what is the priority. That's what you have to stand by to make sense of what you're proposing, and we as MPs are considering. Otherwise, it is a distraction and MP of the opposition, as well as an MP of the post. We often do not have a problem with laws, but with their disrespect, non-implementation in practice. I am absolutely sure, like you, Madam Minister, that under some laws, workers of the departments have exercised their right to work in the company, but they are months ahead; some have problems with tonsils, some with ovaries, but this government and parliamentarians do not care about it. Agricultural producers have problems producing milk, meat. No one in the government gives adequate and good solutions to that. I will make several general remarks or general findings concerning the draft law amending and supplementing the Expropriation Act. The expropriation itself was, in time, one of ten ways to acquire social property. It exists today and has been established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 58. In order to facilitate understanding, I will quote Article 58. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: "The peaceful enjoyment of property and other property rights acquired under the law is guaranteed." Item 2: "The right of property may be taken away or restricted only in the public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than the market". Item 3: "The law can limit the way the property is used." Item 4: "Separation or limitation of property for tax and other taxes or fines is allowed only in accordance with the law". It is clear from this article that two reasons, i.e. two cases where the right of property (which is not subject to the Constitution) can be limited: it is the first where there is a public interest and the second is in case that the owner of the property does not meet his tax obligations and other duties properly. That's where it ends, that's where the point is. Expropriation means the forced seizure of land or other immobilities, but with compensation, and thus differs from confiscation, which was also one of ten ways to acquire social property. And citizens need to know there's no danger. We are for Corridor 10 and where we are fortunate that this government can provide an environment not only for Corridor 10 but also for carrying out a number of other business activities, to have land expropriation because public works are being carried out and there is a possibility of employment; that would be essential. But I'm not sure, Madam Minister, based on what you've explained that it will always be of public interest. Very often at first it may be a public interest, and later it will turn into some private interest. You didn't take care of it, and you're probably not in charge of it. Someone designed it to be that way. The reasons for amending this law are that the Law was passed in 1995 and entered into force in 1996, and then a number of other laws have to do with this law, primarily the Law on Government, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Planning and Construction. Here I fully agree with Parliamentarian Milos Aligrudic's discussion, which estimated that at the same time it was necessary to go along with the adoption of the amendment and the addition or a completely new law on planning and construction, as well as the Expropriation Act. Because there are other legal provisions here that so far have caused great problems in practice, and in the future there will be, not removed by these amendments and additions to the law. It is not possible to intervene in these amendments and amendments, as certain members of the Legislative Committee and of other committees which are native to individual laws, as they are understood by some members of the Legislative Committee and other committees which are native to individual laws; that is to say, you do not accept and assess these amendments as non-sustainable. It wasn't possible. I'll try to give you a few remarks and you'll agree. It will be possible to accept it through the amendments. If the objections, or the DSS amendment, and above all the Serbian Radical Parties are accepted, this law will be made more acceptable and it may in practice be able to give those results you planned as targets. Let us now put aside our legitimate doubts about what this law may later do with the exploitation of mineral and mineral treasures where a private person appears as the owner. Will the provisions of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expropriation Act answer those questions? I don't think so. It's about temporary land take-up that won't be exploited, it's just going to be temporarily occupied for construction of some auxiliary facilities, and in order to build buildings on the land that's being exploited. It's supposed to take three years. If the whole truth were what you were saying, if we wanted some of the actions in this law to shorten or the procedures to speed up, this deadline would be reduced to a year, and the longest to two years. If it is a public interest, then it indicates that something needs to be realised extremely quickly, not done over a long period of time. If we need to be relatively quick to realize, then it's three years (it's just about taking over) and too long. In the case of expropriation of residential buildings or parts of residential buildings, you said in your presentation that there was a possibility for the former owner to assign a parcel, but provided that a part of the settlement was removed due to the exploitation of mine or mineral wealth. But there is no way here, at least indicatively, to determine the value of that one plot. What does the former owner have to do with it if he is able to obtain one plot as a fee for living space (if he or his direct heirs)? That's where you should go with the restriction. Practice says that one fifth of the value of this building plot would be approximately fair in this case. Security of non-money roles in companies – this is a direct interference of the state in business activities. We in the SRS can't agree with that. We believe that the government, as someone who determines and implements the politics of the Republic of Serbia, should create an ambience and good conditions for the functioning of the real sector, and that economic operators should be those who compete both in employment and in creating new income and new values. We have the flag situation – when I comment on this and we in the SRS want it to work – and that contract that has been signed for a long time, which has been cramped; we would be happy and satisfied that it has already been realized. But that's not good. A large number of ancient theorists today criticises as utopia what was in socialism. I'm staying out of it. When we say that such an establishment of economic activity, conducted, was not good, I get the impression and I conclude that the state here and here, through these provisions of the law on amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act, wants to behave in some kind of socialist or communist way. If the government had thought and managed to revitalise the production of what was produced there, today it would have an acceptable price for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I mean those vehicles that were produced there. I don't praise that vehicle, but simply because the Zastava is in Kragujevac, which is Kragujevac in Serbia, we think should continue to produce this type of car, at least in this period, in order to be acceptable for citizens of Serbia who are still in a position to provide a new car, and possibly in export we could provide some work. Who submits requests for public interest? You have explained this, there is no need for me to point out this in particular now; it has been extended to economic operators, and that, in our opinion, is not disputed. But here's another deadline that doesn't contribute to your claim made on the basis of this bill of amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act. So, the interested party through the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia should submit a solution within 90 days. We think that the deadline is long enough and that it's quite enough... Look, you're not getting into any of this yet, and based on some documentation, a request has been filed through the Ministry of Finance to the government. A 30-day deadline for this solution for determining public interest is quite enough if we cut deadlines like this. I am now absolutely sure of what Minister Mrkonjic has promised – when it begins with the work, provided there are no other essential problems, that the envisaged deadlines will bring us certain difficulties in the desire to enter into the construction of Corridor 10. We have proposed this solution by amendment and I will not now talk about our amendments, but this does not change the essence of your concept of law, and it would certainly make it more efficient and shorten those deadlines. A solution that determines that there is a public interest in expropriating, forcing land confiscation or other fixed facilities with compensation, it says, without hearing parties. I am saying this because of the problem that exists in practice – it should be mandatory to hear parties, and consent; but if there are no hearings, there is no agreement. To get to the agreement, we have to face it. This does not require any special costs, does not take much time, and in practice there would be much less problems. You said in this law when it is believed that the party over whose property it is is, I remind you, once again, of the unimpeached constitutional law... It is believed to have been notified after its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". We don't think that's enough. Make sure the government doesn't have a problem with all the owners being notified in writing. Because what problems are you going to have there? For example, some land in Krupanj has been excommunicated; the owner of the property lives in Germany. Do you think he read "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? Not all citizens living here are in a position to be timely informed for various reasons: someone does not read "The Official Messenger of Serbia", no one can, no one does not follow the internet. If we do this, then we'll start to see where there are property-legal relations in time. There are many problems in the cataster of immovableity. For example, some land that is not processed has no particular quality for farming, no one wants to be accepted and no one wants to even carry out a desert procedure, but when someone with a public interest, a state or a local self-government appears, then people seem to be able to get some funds and only then appear. If we inform them further, not just through the official messenger, we'll have more time to solve this practical problem. It is not good to limit the time when immovable property owners can react if the land which has been exploited does not lead to purpose, or public interest. Clearly, these deadlines (five and eight years in that second case) are not good deadlines. If we interfere and we intervene and restrict the right of Serbian citizens in accordance with the law, then we should do so for the real reason when it has to be done, when there is an objective need for a certain land to be excluded in order to realise that public interest. If you accept these remarks as well-intentioned, if the amendments to the SRS are accepted, but I would say without exception, because your concept essentially does not change and practically makes the law very applicable, then what the majority in the voting day will benefit the citizens of Serbia. If you do not, because the objections came from the MPs of the SRS and you feel that they do not have any serious value, then this law will return as a boomerang and you will soon face the problems that I have faced in this reasoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14696	Thank you. Mrs. Judita Popovic has a word as a representative of the LDP Group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14697	President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, first of all, I would like to begin my presentation with one commendation. I would like to publicly, on behalf of my parliamentary group, to commend the Ministry of Justice, and in particular to the minister of justice, given that she was very spotless, very responsibly reacting to the obvious unconscious actions of certain Supreme Court judges. Finally, we have also experienced that the competent authorities decide during a very short period of time when to decide quickly, when to respond to something that is problematic in this society, which is, the decision by the Supreme Court is problematic, whose judges are now under a certain procedure with the supervisory authority. As for the topic on the agenda today, listening carefully to the minister, I realized that the legislator's basic intensities were the modernisation of the Expropriation Act. Normally, modernization would be commended in every respect, we would commend every step that means some progress on our legislation, in terms of such a serious law as the Expropriation Act. But when we talk about the Expropriation Act, we shouldn't forget what expropriation means. Expropriation means some restriction or seizure of ownership. First of all, he thinks of private property. If it is a restriction and a seizure, in that case we must be very careful with all the actions that are directed at it. When we talk about the amendments to this Expropriation Act, we haven't noticed that the state has taken some step towards modernization, nor has it shown due attention and respect for private property, nor has it shown some amount of sensitivity to the interests of those who are actually victims of expropriation. Who are the victims of expropriation? It's mostly about faces. If this law had to change in accordance with modern regulations, it would primarily have to be the crown of certain amendments to laws such as, say, the law on nationalisation. Have we passed the Nationalisation Act? We didn't. Have we passed the restitution law? We didn't. Did we put aside a troubled 1996 law, the Law on Assets of the Republic of Serbia? We didn't. So none of these laws have been passed, nor have we changed. Then why change this Expropriation Act? These changes are directed in two directions: above all, areas of public interest are expanding. So it's the backbone of the expropriation to take away and limit property. What does that mean? Is this some modern course of development for this society in respect of respect of private property? I wouldn't call it that. On the other hand, the circle of expropriation users is spreading. Does this also contribute to the modernisation of the Expropriation Act? I wouldn't call it that, because members 58 and 86. The Constitution foresees, above all, the equality of property forms, as well as the restriction or withdrawal of property rights only for reasons of public interest and with certain market charges, or prices that would comply with the market conditions of immovableity. If this old Expropriation Act is not in accordance with the Constitution, and it is not, then how can these changes be in accordance with the Constitution when these changes do not lead to the modernisation of this law that is already in motion against it? I would remind you that on 31 December 2008 the deadline expired when all the laws had to be aligned with the members of the Constitution, under the Constitutional Law. It is obvious that this Expropriation Act is not in line with the Constitution, and these changes that are predicted only to expand that etatization by performing this etatization on users of that etatization. Thus, we and this state property favour other forms of property, and that is, as I have already said, the reason why these changes are in no way compatible with the Constitution. If the law really wanted to be brought into line with the Constitution, really modernised, then these changes would not be reduced to increasing the number of users and expanding the area, because these changes provide great opportunities for abuses and for users, and also for these areas. Let's say, as users, we also cite companies, companies founded by public enterprises. Last December, as I recall, we sold the NIS, the majority stock package, to a foreign state firm. Here's our chance, with these amendments and the amendments to the Expropriation Act, to complete this contract, in a negative sense, normally, since we initially opposed that contract. Where the legislator cites an explanation with Article 2 it is interesting to point out in particular pipelines and pipelines. I remind you that it is a Article 2 of the Law, which says that Article 6(1) after the word "building buildings" adds the words "and setting up a service for which a public interest is established under this law". The service limits property rights, and it's interesting that in the reasoning of the law, it's like some kind of subconscious, that pipeline, that pipeline and everything else. That is, by the way, a very strange argument regarding some incomplete expropriation, as the legislator states in his explanation. It is obvious that we are doing our laws ad hoc, and it is obvious that we are doing them in certain individual interests, and we are taking all of this into some public interest, because, my God, we need to do privatisation, we need new investments and so forth, and we forget that in these new investments, we must first of all take care of the interests of our companies, our citizens and our country, and not to further deepen the discrepancies between an old legislation with the existing social situation and the social system. When the Expropriation Act was passed, in 1996, there was a whole other social system, another economic system, which could no longer be maintained in force in the way that it existed in this rather ethical period. When we talk about these expropriation users, I would particularly refer to Article 3 which says users are the Republic of Serbia, autonomous provinces, cities, the city of Belgrade, municipalities, public funds, public enterprises, companies founded by public enterprises, as well as companies with majority state capital founded by the Republic of Serbia. When you start to list all these expropriation users, then you see that many things can be led under it and that in this way we very much extend the circle of those who can ask individuals to sacrifice, now not their own life, as it was during the mobilization, but in any case, our property, because in this way people are forced to give up part of their property with some compensation that, behold, a state body will again determine according to some market conditions. If this were really to be considered and if these changes were indeed in line with market conditions, then that compensation would also have to be flexible. When we talk about this market fee, I would particularly refer to Article 43 of this Law, which says that for the seized building land in the state, or public property, the beneficiary of that land is entitled to compensation. This member cannot in any way be separated from a member of the 12th Old Expansion Act, which accurately states what happens to the owner of an object that is not hanging in the air but located on the city building land, or building land that is in state property. This user of the building land, and the owner of the facility, has the right to a fair remuneration, to market conditions, as regards the value of the facility, and since only the user of the land that is owned by the state, according to these changes (which, in fact, are not any changes), he may have the right, if at a certain price, to acquire the right to use on that land, to receive some compensation, but in that fee, neither the communals nor all that he has invested in that land for the purpose. Therefore, I would practically explain to you, if you are the owner of some strategist in the elite part of Belgrade or any city in Serbia, you have the right to be compensated by the state for the value of these strategists, under market conditions, and as far as land use is concerned, it is state-owned. There are some conditions, some make-up that this law on amendments to the Expropriation Act has little to do with, a little modernized, but the essence remains the same: you are still, like the one whose real estate, or property has been taken away, or restricted, in an unfavourable position. So if you really thought something was modernizing, then this Article 12 should have changed a little bit differently, not how it was done to this Article 43a. I don't think the solutions provided for by this law are good. The Liberal Democratic Party cannot support this law. I would like to point out again that by expanding the number of users and expanding the area with regard to public interest we do not get a modernization of expropriation, we remain on the old one, which is a serious restriction on the right of private property. Moreover, we limit this private property even more strictly, enable abuses, and the result is nothing. It cannot be called on for public interest, it cannot be called upon to sacrifice some of its interests for public interest, which is under question because a large circle of those who have now been given the right to realise, or practice, this public interest. Therefore, as I have noted, the Expropriation Act is unconstitutional, these changes that are foreseen are also unconstitutional. The forms of property under this Expropriation Act remain definitely in an unequal position, definitely favouring state property. If that's the case, then why talk about modernization, then why talk about us moving towards some modern lifestyle and respect for private property? Why don't we go into serious reform? Why don't we pass the Nationalisation Act, the Restitution Act? Why don't we change that Fund Act of the Republic of Serbia if the Constitution no longer foresees that unfortunate social property? Therefore, the Liberal Democratic Party cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14698	Thank you, Mrs. Popovic. Members of the SRS, New Serbia and the SPS-JS, as well as Mr Vladan Batic, who does not belong to the parliamentary groups, have the right to speak for up to five minutes, signed up. You have your word, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14699	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, on behalf of the DHSS, whose MP I am, I cannot support the bill, because it is absolutely an anachron, it is a relapse of some of the past times and attempts, to God, its modernisation is absolutely impossible. It's like trying to modernise the Keops pyramid, that's impossible. It's contitio son qua non. It doesn't mean anything. It's just impossible. I expected you, as finance minister, to propose the adoption of a law on the return of seized property and compensation, a law on denationalisation. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia didn't do it, I tried to do it myself, I submitted a bill on the return of seized property and compensation, what is called denationalisation or restitution in the daily jargon. I will remind you that he is our responsibility, because we are members of the Council of Europe. I will remind you that the adoption of a law on denationalisation is a prerequisite for EU accession. I remind you that it is a disgrace and a shame that absolutely all the countries of the former SFRY have passed a law on denationalisation, all, including Bosnia, Macedonia and Montenegro. I remind you that the Denationalisation Act was passed by Republika Srpska. It is sad that the law does not have only Serbia. On behalf of the DHSS, I did so and reiterated the proposal that our party made to this Parliament on 6 March 2003, six years ago today, because before 5 October, we promised the citizens that we would correct this historic injustice. It's been nine years. It's October 5th nine-year-old Monday. Those who promised that forgot about it. I haven't forgotten. It's not just about correcting historical injustice, it's not just about history and the past, it's about the future. Not the biggest problem of our economy is political instability, the biggest problem is legal uncertainty, and legal uncertainty exists where there is no protection of private property. There is no protection of private property in countries where there is no law on denationalisation. Instead of passing such an important and capital law, we return to something that belongs to history, starting with the strong laws on agrarian reform, confiscation, sequestration, nationalization and finally expropriation. They mean restriction, slowdown, restriction, reduction of private property, and there's no cosmetics that can help us. I specifically point to the provision of Article 3, where the circle of expropriation users is expanded. In whose interest is this, Madam Minister – as well as for the needs of the companies established by public enterprises? Isn't he hiding behind this -- for the purposes of the tycoon or for those directors of public enterprises, various Krisht and Tirkajl, to spend as Alajbek's straw? What are companies founded by public enterprises? Why, for their needs or, to simplify the question, what public interest would it be to land Luke Belgrade or most of the land of Luke Belgrade belongs to a local oligarch? Is this a public interest hidden in the provisions of this law? That reminds me of those voices that were heard from this... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, the "tourism-recreative summit" on the Kopalnik, where foreign businessmen, or tycoons, have advocated that the state of Serbia is in debt wherever it can and as much as it can be. Why? To save their firms. I'm asking a question - who's gonna pay those debts back? Our kids, our grandkids or someone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14700	I give my word to MP Milan J. Nikolic, SPS-JS.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14701	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, such terms as expropriation and, some mention earlier, confiscation is about something that is ugly, given the historical events. However, the 1995 Law, which began in 1996, has made it quite clear what is meant by expropriation. However, after so many years, such a law ceases to be current in many parts; time and life have made their own and many of the provisions defined in this law require certain changes and adjustments in the time in which we live today. Also, the new Constitution has regulated that property rights can be seized and restricted only in the public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than market value. The amendments and additions to the Law extend the areas, the minister spoke of them, in which public interest can be established, due to new forms of investment, above all, which is of strategic interest to the state of Serbia. These changes and additions shall specify individual legal solutions, in particular in relation to the users of the expropriation, the types of compensation for exploited immovableities, the procedure for determining the public interest and the procedure for carrying out the expropriation itself. It is also quite clearly defined the concept of temporary land takeover and the way in which the land is rescheduled in the case of laying down equipment, for example, gas pipeline installation, plumbing, oil pipeline (investments that will be very current in this country), as well as the construction of temporary facilities during the realization of such investment projects. In the case of this expropriation, the land owner shall be left with the possibility of replacing the land at an adequate location, in fact, and the land must be the same category, or market value compensation. In cases of the need to move and tear down private-owned facilities, it was also allowed the owner to obtain a plot to build a new facility, but also an adequate fee for the facility, building or apartment he owned. It is a very important provision that, on the launched expropriation initiative by any entity (which is listed as being the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the province, local self-government, cities, funds), the public interest determines the Government of the Republic of Serbia by a special solution and that no form of expropriation can be launched and implemented without the established public interest. I mentioned earlier, ladies and gentlemen, that the strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is building corridors, highways, pipelines, building a plant for renewable energy sources, so that the adoption of this law is very important and will solve many problems that are both current and current. Let's just say, I'll only mention the problem of Corridor 10 on the Presevo-Leskovic route. According to the dynamics of how part of the corridor is built, before the investment procedure in the construction of the corridor is completed, rather than the land expropriation procedure because they are looking for unrealisticly high prices and it is not possible to agree with the owners of the land. This is a terrible slowdown in the dynamics of highway construction, and at the same time it's a tremendously expensive investment, because it doesn't matter if the capital, the equipment, the people, the projects, and the planned dynamics are not realized for these reasons as they exist at the moment. I would say, in fact, regardless of the observations made, that this law is in the interest of both the Serbian state and the provinces, and cities, and local self-government, and also many business entities owned by public enterprises, the state, land owners and all other entities that will be subject to expropriation. As a result, the need for such amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act of the SPS-JS Parliamentary Group will support such an amendment and addition of the Expropriation Act in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14702	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Ministers, the bill on amendments and amendments to the Expropriation Act is an attempt by the applicant of this law to regulate certain matters in the state. It is certain that some infrastructure facilities that need to be made should be properly channeled, but I would refer to Mr Batic's story, which has very well noticed that denationalisation is practically a previous procedure in relation to expropriation. Because you can be sure that something that isn't denationalized will appear at the expropriation and there will be legal chaos. I think it's going to be something that's definitely going to cause a lot of trouble in the future. Users here are the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province, city, municipalities, etc. I think there has been a lot of concern about the protection of this public interest when it comes to public enterprises or companies, for which I cannot fully accept how these public enterprises are formed. There's the impression that there's gonna be a lot of abuse. A little care is taken of the individuals and that kind of expropriation, when it comes to their country. You see how, Madam Minister, a peasant in Serbia cannot be so well informed about a planful act when it comes to infrastructure. How will he get rid of that period when he sells his country thinking that he sold it at some market value, which is good for him at that moment, but does not foresee at all the possibility or does not know that something will be built in the future in that place? It is certain that people will appear who will buy this land, who are very well informed and know that something will be built. Some people who own the country for 50, 100 years with one purchase, which may be good for them at that moment, will certainly be damaged if they see in five, six, or seven years that someone who bought land from them has become enormously rich thanks only to being better informed. My message is that it wasn't enough to take care of their faces to protect them from these things. I'm sure there was room to protect those people with some deadlines. So, as for regulating expropriation as a necessary measure, it is true that the state must have a public interest, it is true that it has to be built, it has to be done, but for many, this kind of expropriation will be, in fact, a temporary measure. It doesn't take care enough, like I said, of the affecting value of things. The right of property, therefore, is the absolute right of people who are owners and have the right to fructose, the absurd, the ousus, these are basic postulates of rights. It is certain that many will find themselves in a situation where they will not be able to satisfy their basic right. I would be very happy if on this case the citizens of Serbia had the right and the ability to protect and in matters of motion. I've said it many times from this pay phone, and I'm going to say it now, you have to protect people who own mobile stuff; specifically, car owners. Car reregistering is therefore the problem of someone who has achieved the right in this country that was common, Serbia-Montenegro. He can't be denied the right to reregister a vehicle, especially in a situation where we know how much money we have now with the funds in the state, how much money it takes. This was the right moment for the moment when there is practically no production in one factory (no production of flag, no production of "South", and as we can see, with the "Fiitat" still uncertain) to use this vacuum, to please people who will and who have the right to reregister something they have achieved. My most well-intentioned advice at the moment, as an opposition MP, is to allow people to reregister cars. On the one hand, you will fill the budget, and on the other hand, people will exercise their right. When someone doesn't have the basic right to moving things, how can we believe that you're completely honest when it comes to the absolute right of these things that are immobilized? There's an assumption that there's not enough honesty in all of this. I think this right has to be evened out for both moving and moving things. Furthermore, it's completely inappropriate to give some deadlines, more speakers have said that here than five years old. They are said to have no right to de-expropriation unless something is fulfilled within five years. I don't think that's right, and I think those deadlines should have been extended or simply not left with such an opportunity for someone to suffer because someone did the expropriation, and then some job stopped. So I urge you to get some things fixed here. I think there will be a lot of abuse when it comes to this kind of expropriation. Once again, I'm telling you that the first thing to do was take care of denationalization. It's a fundamental mistake when we talk about these changes. Of course, time will show who's right. If you had mentioned Harry Potter now, I wouldn't blame you, because there's really going to be some stuff here (I'm sorry, but you'll be remembered for it) that will look like cartoons. I hope the state finds enough mechanisms and ways to stand up to it. In addition, your role as Ministry of Finance and some bodies that assess the transfer of absolute rights is unclear – which are bodies, which is market value; this should really be expanded, because something remains unclear here, etc. I am particularly surprised by what is in Article 21, where it is said: "The procedure for the expropriation of immovableity which is not legally completed until the date of entry into force of this law, which has been launched under the proposal of a public undertaking for the purposes of its dependent company, will end by the regulations which were in force until the date of entry into force of this law, in favour of that company, if it can be a beneficiary of the expropriation under the provisions of this law and if, in the sense of Article 4, the amendment to the decision on the general interest established in favour of that company. "It's okay, but what about physical faces? Where are they? What? I'm telling you, you only take care of companies. There will be tycoons, there will be those who will make various manipulations. I'm talking about protecting a natural person when it comes to expropriation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14704	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mr. Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14705	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, when I reviewed the previous law that was passed in 1995 ("Official Messenger" No. 53") and came into force in 1996, I doubted that it had bothered them, I believe that the Expropriation Act was not bad, that it did not bother them because it was brought to a time when the Socialist Party of Serbia ruled Serbia. Or are you in such a hurry to still, in addition to the 14-15 laws we have to pass, make sets of six-seven, put together at one, and then give us those five hours to process them nicely and try to explain to the citizens of Serbia how many failures you have in making individual proposals and amendments and supplementing certain laws. Here, I was worried, Madam Minister, when you divided this into three segments in your presentation, and this third segment gave you a bit of a "hit", she's making up for the land, and as you said, it's about Corridor 10, since suddenly there's agricultural land that's where this Corridor 10 is going, and now it's being sold at an enormously high price. As far as I know, in these municipalities, the cities by which Corridor 10 passes, you are in power. You give orders to a certain number of tycoons that buy that agricultural land a while ago, not to say they're expropriating, and then a hectare is sold for the fabulous sums. Here, I'll take it slowly. In the explanation of Article 1, you say, "The subject of the regulation of this law, as referred to in Article 58, is specified. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: 'The right of property may be taken away or restricted only in the public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than the market'. "Now we wonder what "lower than the market" means, if you have come to know that agricultural land that must be exploited will have an enormously high price. I say again, who is he who buys that land? Through this exhibit of mine, I'll tell you what it means to rent state agricultural land. In this section that you've brought out here, there's something that makes some of the strength of this, and there's a lot of gaps. I'll show you the difference between expropriation of agricultural land that you've listed here and the lease of state agricultural land, as far as guarantees are concerned, we're talking about guarantees. I'll tell you next. Let's start with the reasoning of Article 2 where he says: "Temporary takeover is arranged in the event of establishment of office or lease on land for a specified period of time. "He says, "or lease on land for a certain time." "According to the fact that the expropriation established the service to lay down the equipment and installations for the pipeline, pipeline or pipeline, it may be necessary to temporarily take... ". Well, don't take this. It is already slowly irritated by the citizens of Serbia; Kosovo is busy, so let's take this now. Couldn't you have written "temporary expropriation"? Why "temporaryly busy"? Next: "... within the meaning of Article 6. Laws and neighbouring land (for accommodation of workers, materials and machines)... ". Please, they know so much – how much surface does it take for the Corridor? Why would the extra land have to be occupied, as you say? It goes on to say, "... as land to serve a certain need in connection with the construction of buildings or the installation of equipment and installations for the pipeline, pipeline or pipeline. Suspension will be lifted as soon as the need for this ceases, in terms of and under the conditions laid down in Article 6. The law, while the service established within the meaning of Article 5. The law remains because the purpose of this incomplete expropriation is achieved by laying down, for example, pipeline pipes, pipelines, water nets and the like." What if those stores in Article 2 don't work? Here, we have the Pančeva Bridge, there's been a board on it for three years -- it's been repairing the Pančeva Bridge. What happens if you do the expropriation of those tycoons who bought that land, and you do the expropriation, and don't come, God forbid, to this Corridor 10 or the installation of some pipeline, a pipeline outside the inhabited town, a pipeline, an oil pipeline between inhabited cities and cities? The reasoning of Article 5 states: "It is proposed that in the event of an expropriation of agricultural land to build liner infrastructure facilities to the former owner, as compensation for this exploited land, that, in the property of the second appropriate agricultural land of the same culture and class... ". Culture is what is sown on agricultural land, and class is between one and eight, you know, you have a class of land from first to eighth. But can you give suitable agricultural land of the same culture? How can you give the same, the land is under the wheat, the land is under the barley, under the corn, under the sunflower, under the oatmeal, I don't know, and I really don't understand. When you say "agricultural land of the same culture", so culture is something that grows on agricultural land, and class is what you wanted to say. You should know that in Vojvodina neighbors next door have parcels of different classes, from seventh to third. So this one has the seventh class of land, and this one has the third one. How can you give him the same class? They will have to be explained by Agriculture Minister and that citizen Masic. They're competent. Furthermore, Madam Minister, in Article 10, it is proposed to be in Article 28. The law adds Article 4 which stipulates that the users of the expropriation, which, according to the applicable regulations, cannot open an account with a business bank, in addition to the documents referred to in Article 27. The law, instead of guaranteeing a business bank, along with a proposal for expropriation, submitted and a confirmation of the funds provided in the budget of the users of the expropriation. How is it not done when the Law on Agricultural Land was adopted in 2006, so that whoever rents state agricultural land brings a guarantee in the note, intubulation or guarantee of the bank? Then it wouldn't have happened that in the municipality of Zrenjanin, based on the documents received from 2,015 sheets... If you know that two lists go for the bidding, for the three lists contract, that's five sheets for whoever rents state agricultural land; when you look at only 2,000 sheets, that's 400 contracts. Those 400 contracts, when we add it all together, are 635 million. Based on the availability of information of public importance, I received information that only 62 million were collected, I received it from the Municipality of Zrenjanin, and I received 60 million from the Ministry of Agriculture from the Ministry of Agriculture. I wonder where 565 million is for 2008. If that was the minister, who approves of contracts for the lease of state agricultural land, he's well reviewed... And the one who didn't pay the lease in 2008, he filed the note, what he gave as an intubulation or a guarantee of the bank, and the story is over. I'm telling you, there are only 565 million missing from the Zrenjanin municipality, based on information of public importance. The opposite information is: from the municipality, according to paperwork, 62 million, and from the Ministry of Agriculture – 70. There's only 82 subjects, names and last names, paid. Where are the others, if I said there were about 400 contracts? Why don't you intervene? I brought this out to you by the Minister of Agriculture, and I'm telling you who knows which time here. I'm trying to prove to you and let you know, in the Pancheva municipality, you've denied the budget for about a billion, and you won't intervene. Why? Because that's what tycoons buy, buys a yellow company. You have no control over Todorovic, nor Nicic, Miskovic, Bek, Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandr Vukic. You need to control them all. I think I'm clear. In article 10, you did well because you made one guarantee that the one who's going to expropriate has to deliver, but it wasn't done where the huge money is, in the lease of state agricultural land. You haven't done that, and it's thousands of acres. The second thing I wanted to say, as a national MP and a member of the Committee on Agriculture, was my opinion when on 23 January and 4 February the citizen Masic chaired, the honest citizen, who was a national MP, a circuit MP, the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Novosad Fair, the chairman of the Agriculture Committee and the regular professor of the Faculty of Agriculture, the Department of Medicine. This wasn't even Tito's job as a master, and he got five titles for himself. It's that honest Machine... (President: Please link it to the expropriation. I wanted to point out some irregularities on the Committee, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture. However, I was given the fines. If you respect the Rules of Procedure, and you respect it, one warning is first made, and another warning, and the taking away of words, and then the distance from the session. I get an explanation here, and I am fined with 32,000 dinars, which reads: "At the seventh session of the Committee on Agriculture, held on 23 January and 4 February 2009, a member of the Committee of Milorad Krstin, in accordance with Article. 113, 106 and 108. The Rules of Procedure, they give the measures of two warnings and the measure of distance from the session." Where's the taking of words here? The Rules of Procedure must be strictly respected. So he had to give me one warning first, another one, and take away words from the Committee on Agriculture, and then away from the session... (President: Mr. Christin, I am still patiently waiting to hear what this has to do with expropriation. Can I just say this? I tolerate everything, but I have to tell the truth. This is about Milorad Krstin, Momi Markovic, Srboljub Zivanovic, Elena Christmas-Talian and many members who were present on the Committee, who received warnings. This is only because we belong to the SRS parliamentary group - Dr Vojislav Seselj, and we do not belong to the non-existent – Tomislav Nikolic, traitors... (President: I warn you to talk about a point on the agenda. It doesn't matter which party you belong to. ) Mr. Novakovic, I really thank you, but as vice president, you have not fulfilled your promise to listen to the stenogram of this Committee on Agriculture. I ask you to deliver a stenogram as a folk MP, to hear who was talking on that committee, and I would like to hear how citizen Masic opened the Agriculture Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14706	I read a stenogram from the board. If I gave it to you, don't hold my word, but on Tuesday, I repeat my promise, at 10.01 I'll give you a copy of the stenogram from that board. Thank you for understanding. Mr. Nikola Savic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14707	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us amendments and additions to a very important law, the Expropriation Act. Just for a reminder, expropriation's a foreign word, but it's gotten a little bit old with us. Every citizen of ours knows exactly what it means, because almost every Serbian family has had some experience with expropriation. It's a good thing one of these laws is passed, I have to say, because it should fundamentally and in one place sublime all those things from other laws in order for the law to be of quality. Unfortunately, what's wrong with this law? It is not good what is not good in all the other laws proposed by this government and this law also has a large number of shortcomings. One of the basic newspapers proposed by this law is that areas of public interest can be extended. I must say, public interest is widely interpreted here. This may lead to certain abuses. We've had opportunities, and in the future we'll have even more opportunities, to see that this public interest can grow sometimes into a personal interest. It's one of the basic grudges of this law. Of course, besides this, this law has an even greater number of shortcomings. For example, a solution that determines the public interest, as it stands in the law, can be made without a prior hearing of parties. I believe that this is a technical matter and that there was no need for the legislator to avoid being informed by the parties, because it essentially costs nothing and does not pose a problem. Furthermore, this same article, related to this, states that a solution establishing public interest over some agricultural land or other good should be published in the "Official Messenger", which is normal, and that on the day of publication in the "Official Messenger", the parties are considered to have been informed of this. I believe that there is no effort and that it is not difficult to inform the parties by any other means and in another way that there is a public interest in any particular property or land. I have to remind you, and that's something my colleague Peric said in the opening statement, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, that there is one saying that says – if you want to hide something, publish it in "The Official Messenger". How come some ordinary citizen out there, a peasant from the most stupid village, who's never even seen "the official messenger," heard nothing but that, only on that basis? Here, let's say there are 250 MPs in this House, let's all ask ourselves when we are and who last held us in the hands of the Official Messenger. The next lack of this law refers to the temporary seizure of land. I do not want to argue that such a measure is necessary, especially in cases where a job is done, so it is necessary to place workers, machinery, equipment and other things, but there is a lot of uncertainty in this member of the law and there can be abuse again. In what way? Simply, this member of the law does not clearly state how much compensation there is in the temporary seizing of land, who pays that fee, or on whose charge such a fee falls. Of course, the deficiency is that temporary land possession is limited to three years. I think it's a longer term, and it takes two years maximum, because if it's something of public interest, then it needs to be done as soon as possible, not to stretch, as we've had examples so far. One of the very important shortcomings in this law is that the law does not mention or foresee the priorities of land over which public interest is established. I would like to remind you that agricultural land is a public good, that it is also a public interest in Serbia and that it should be avoided to establish a public interest in quality agricultural land and first category land. However, in practice, we are doing the opposite, mostly the most qualitative land is the subject of expropriation, although we know from our environments and from some other examples that there is the possibility that some other land might be declared to be the most quality and productive public good, and often this land is located near that land that is quality, perhaps just a few hundred meters away. As I said at the beginning, this is a very important law. Those who exercise power in this country have truly understood that. For this reason, a few days ago, they held counselling in the chairs below Pancic's summit, where they agreed to do an expropriation throughout Serbia. It's no accident they picked out a really bathing suit. The bathroom is the highest mountain in Serbia, the Kopalnik shows all of Serbia and has the best view from above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14708	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dobrislav Prelic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act, which is another one in a series of laws that were unprepared for the assembly procedure. The introduction and presentation of Mrs Dragutinović, such a crutch and very short, which is unusual for her, speaks enough about the fact that the law is not done properly. I sincerely hope that the large number of amendments submitted by the opposition will be accepted to improve this law and that eventually the law will be adapted to the citizens of Serbia and the interests of Serbian citizens. A couple of things that stick around here in this law, and we've heard a lot from representatives of the parliamentary groups, even from the debaters today, talk enough about not thinking first of all about the citizens of Serbia, not thinking about the people that this expropriation is going to end up being related to. Real estates can be expunged or property on them can only be limited in the public interest established under the law, with a fee which cannot be lower than the market. What does it mean - a fee lower than the market? We all know who will make the decisions, how much compensation there will be and, normally, what we are afraid of, it is that tycoons will take such land and that they will be allowed to get richer at the expense of Serbian citizens. When it comes to agricultural land, it's just a special story. You mentioned Corridor 10 yourself, and you said that prices went unreal and that citizens probably demand, I don't know if you meant market prices, but so far, for expropriating people's land, it's been far below market prices and what's really worth it. You've heard today that agricultural farmland is divided by classes and that there's a huge difference in land classes. If only a fraction of what the country is worth in the EU, unlike this one here, and especially in central Serbia and the places from which our population has moved massively to cities, where the price of a hectare of the country is more than miserable... In Vojvodina, it is still at some level that is satisfying, even increasing the value of the country. But it is also increasing because the tycoons bought it, and now they are selling, unfortunately, the dukeland to Croatian tycoons. It is something that is, above all, inadmissible for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the Minister of Agriculture and for the people who should be taken care of. I'm afraid it will be too late because the huge areas of farmland are already in the hands of, specifically, the Croatian tycoon Ivica Todorovic. Every day, more and more processed agricultural land is purchased in Vojvodina, and before that, our agricultural goods have been bought at incredibly low prices. Someone's behind it. We know very well who's behind it and who's allowed it. I've had Mr. Dragin's relationship with his public statements in the past ten days, when agriculture practically collapses you're... (President: Mr. Flea, please, expropriation is on the agenda. It is, but it's about agricultural land, Mr. Novakovic. (President: I agree that it is agricultural land, but it is about the application of an expropriation institute to agricultural land. ) I had to mention Mr. Dragin and his statement a week ago, when our milk producers were concerned, because many milk producers will be damaged by this expropriation, Mr. Novakovic. When you divide one plot, when it passes, let's say, the road (in particular, in the municipality is done on a bypass project), a huge number of people who process agricultural land will pass in the middle of the plots, and here in the explanation that the rest of the plot can be extended to areas where public and general interest can be determined, but that later it can also return. When used for three years, it depends on what purpose, that part of the surface will no longer be used, Mr. Novakovic. Decidence says, "The temporary takeover will be lifted as soon as the need for it stops," and the need will probably be determined by someone who uses the given area at that time. This is another law that supposedly needs to provide us with a "white Schengen" list, of which absolutely nothing. Mr. Djelic almost flew here from the pay phone when he said – come on, but the "white Schengen" list has absolutely nothing. It will not be until the end of the year, as the EU simply does not want Serbia, and you are trying to hide it. Fortunately, Serbia's citizens know that well and public opinion at all. The latest polls show that the percentage is falling drastically. God forbid you rule till the end, you'd fall to 5%. But I sincerely hope that now it is absolutely clear to the citizens of Serbia and that all these frauds made to the citizens of Serbia, when pre-election promises were at stake, and this is what Mr Krasic told you in the morning part of the session, will simply not find a foothold with Serbian citizens anymore. Here we could also talk about the return of state property, where I think there's also a very big connection to this law. Because at times agricultural cooperatives were founded by bringing in their own country to form a working relationship in these cooperatives. It's all privatized today. And many local communities, that is, everything that was state, local self-government and local communities, people at the time, for the best possible purposes, all of this was rewritten to these agricultural cooperatives because, especially less environments were leaned upon and a large number of citizens lived exclusively from the incomes of these cooperatives. Today is a completely different story, bought by tycoons, and especially the pain of agricultural enterprises bought by Croatian citizens. Now all that property that was stately simply belongs to them. The government would have to take this seriously. What can't come back, can't, but when it comes to what used to be a state, which isn't little, I think the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Local Self-Government should deal with this issue a little bit and work seriously on how all these assets would be returned to management and, in the end, that these small environments would try to create new jobs and employ their citizens. There will be a lot of amendments to this law, as it usually does to all the laws you've passed. I sincerely hope that you will accept some of these amendments, i.e. you should accept most of them, although it would be best to withdraw this law from the procedure because it is not good for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14710	Thank you. Mr. Radisa Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14711	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Expropriation Act has been tasked with regulating some of the emerging situations during the last years caused, above all, by changing the structure of ownership, so that the current situation does not correspond to the situation from the time this law came, which is 1996. However, we must in no way interfere with the mind that the right to property of the Constitution is guaranteed and that the state and the laws that the state adopts in the event of the expropriation of private property must exercise absolutely fair and, within a reasonable period of time, the payment of compensation or compensation to the owner of the property. It is the government of the Republic of Serbia that determines the public interest in expropriation for the purpose of building infrastructure, for the purposes of defence of the country and for the purposes of other state authorities, but the government of the Republic of Serbia should also bear all the consequences of the unfair and irregular expropriation of private property. Given that the funds for this purpose are determined from the State register, this job is also an option for abuses related to value assessment or to compensation assessment by authorised persons. There are also numerous situations, mentioned in his opening statement by the authorised representative of the SRS, MP Sreto Peric. Often the owners of parcels that are in the plan of expropriating old faces are uninformed both about prices and possibilities, for example, land replacements and then happen to be manipulated and deceived. There are situations that property owners are not in the country or are not informed or even do not know that they belong to the property that is subject to expropriation. It is a particularly interesting situation that the expropriation of land and objects for the use of mineral raw materials is imagined. Article 8 states that expropriation can be done for the needs of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province, cities, municipalities, public funds, public enterprises, companies founded by public enterprises, as well as for business companies with majority state capital. This can be imagined when it comes to RTB Bor, Kolubara - Surface Copies or some other public enterprise that needs to expand because of the nature of the business that the particular company is dealing with. I have one question for a government representative – how is it determined and is it possible to expropriate land from private companies that use mineral raw materials for their production purposes and do these companies have the rights prescribed by this law? Article 8 states for which and whose needs may be expropriated, and several members of this law mention the public interest of the Republic of Serbia, and I wonder if, in fact, it may be the key to answering this question of mine. The state of Serbia has an interest in selling its natural resources and the question is how the state will set itself up towards private, mostly foreign, companies exploiting mineral raw materials. We have examples, such as the "Jelen Do", such as the spears of laporacs and limestones exploiting cements, which are foreign companies based in Switzerland, Greece and France. "Jelen Do" bought a company from Croatia. There are some more, but don't let me count them now. All these companies have their own exploitation fields that represent the planned goal of expanding the area of exploitation in the future. In this area there are agricultural parcels, buildings, infrastructure, forest areas, water springs, etc., and in fact they are someone's private property. The question now is, how does an expropriation take place in this situation, if at all possible? Is there a principle of volunteering for the owners to sell their assets to private companies or is that what they want or not going to have to do, at the price determined by that interested company? I'd like to know what's going to happen if one of the owners doesn't want to sell his assets at the offered price or he doesn't want to sell his property at all. Who will legally put themselves in a position to violently expropriate private property owners on behalf of some private company? On the other hand, the question is, what kind of status does the exploitation zone mentioned here under the Mining Act mean that in this way, indirectly, private companies will also get the status of institutions and public enterprises mentioned in Article 8? Here, too, there may be another problem in the process of expropriation, if it comes to the situation of confiscation of property with a certain fee which is subject to the implementation of the law on restitution, or if it is property that was seized after 1945, which has not yet been returned to the right owners. Who will requite the rightful owners, when that property is returned to them one day? Consider the property that should be returned to the Serbian Orthodox Church under the restitution law, which is agricultural land, buildings, meadows, mornings and forests. It is likely that many of you have heard of the "Passulan Livade" military polygon on the slopes of the Kucatian Mountains, which has long been thrown around by representatives of the NATO Alliance. Now the state can implement the expropriation process with the public company "Serbishum" but it is a very big problem that this area, this land once belonged to the Ravanica monastery and under this law of restitution, must be returned to the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Ravanica monastery. Who will make damages to the Serbian Orthodox Church tomorrow? Will it be the Ministry of Defense and the Sutanovac, or perhaps the NATO Pact, when it grabs this military polygon? There are no doubt about many situations that will inevitably arise in the process of expropriation. The Serbian Radical Party believes that there are major irregularities in this law, and our parliamentary group will try to correct this legislative proposal with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14712	Thank you. The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic. The remaining time is 27 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14713	Mr. Novakovic, there is plenty of time to convince you of the views of the SRS and I would ask you to be careful, to listen to this, you may learn some things, you will need to live. At the beginning, I'd like to inform the viewers that there's a law on amendments and additions to the Expropriation Act on the agenda. These amendments and additions should be an addition to the existing law, in order for it to meet all the conditions that you, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, prescribed in 2006 when you adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the referendum, and Article 58, the first three positions of that member. Now we're on that ground, so it's clear. Our constitution has little, if I may say so, a foolish solution; it's about the right to property, instead of talking about the right property, as sacred. I'm telling you this because this morning, or this afternoon, you've had a chance to hear our first speaker and one vice president say, who has said, "The living head won't vote for this law." It's their political stance and I appreciate it, but they've put something in this story that can't be said about this bill. They put in denationalisation, and they added something else, which means that Mr Batic and Mrs Judita Popovic know very well who is in power, because they talked more about the abuses of the existing Expropriation Act and the future law with these changes and additions by the authorities than they talked about whether the proposed solutions were good or bad. They're here, in this part, right, because they're practically insiders. They know very well how DOS works, according to one feudal principle – I tell you, you tell me, this is my ad, don't get into my at, etc. This is a principle debate and only political qualifications for the proposed law are given here. When the amendments are discussed, then we'll talk about legal and technical solutions, so I can't look back on that in principle debate, because, as I'm jinxed, Nikola will give me a warning, so I just have to stick to this general political discourse under this bill. In order for viewers to understand even better today's debate on this bill, I have to tell you that we had a chance to discuss with the representatives of the government when they discussed this bill, we see how a person's split is done. Expropriation law is not a new phenomenon. Why isn't it a new phenomenon? It exists, Malten, for hundreds of years, because it's how something that was private can become a state, because of some greater interest. It's the only legal way to question property rights, first of all on immovable property, when it comes to expropriation. All countries are trying to write and make standards in the constitution that will be largely guaranteed and a great limit for the holder of the authority that he can be limited to the right of property. We are practically talking about this law today; when we adopt these amendments and supplement the Expropriation Act, can we control the one who enters the right of property, so that this entry, desecration, confiscation, endangerment of property rights is allowed in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with some principles. If we're talking about it, we're having a personality split again. You know, it's easy to criticize, but it's hard to criticise if at the same time you're a representative of a party that's in power, say, in a municipality, so the municipality needs to implement a water line, a sewerage, steam heating, a street, to solve a question of municipal waste or something that can be said to be a public matter, so when you face a problem of how a public matter works, where there's a conflict between private and public, then you need an expropriation law, then you need an effective law of expropriation that you can enter into someone else's property in five minutes. But if you take a picture on TV, if you're supposed to participate in "The Imprint of the Week" where you're going to rip a hair in the length of 16 parts, then you're going to talk like Mr. Batic -- unauthorized, unacceptable mixing into private property, private property sacred. And a third of Serbia in the rural area is almost without land users. That's right, look at these villages of ours, the wasteland, there's no one to process any property. But get back to this Expropriation Act. What's important about this law? In this law it is important whether he has mechanisms that we can control a government that enters private property. It's the most important thing. Does this law give us mechanisms to control the state and all those involved in this process? I don't think these conditions, or these fine control mechanisms, exist until the end. They exist, they don't exist until the end. The next question we have to open is - what is our practice? Practice is a disaster. It differs from the municipality to the municipality, from the municipality's ability to address the government in order to establish public interest, and through their finance departments, to adopt a proposal for expropriation and beyond all that follows, in conclusion with a fair compensation that is determined in the out-of-pard procedure. As a rule, it takes a long time. The next question, or something that opens up as a problem, and you've opened it with changes and additions to this law, especially those changes that affect Article 8 of the existing bill, is that as a beneficiary of expropriation, the state appears as a rule. When I say state, I mean state in the broadest sense of the word. It sometimes appears as the Republic, for some time as an autonomous province, some time as a unit of local self-government, also appears as a public enterprise, but you have put in here companies that establish public enterprises so that it is a majority state capital. There are Batic and Mrs Judith and all those who criticized the law are absolutely right. Why? Because you can't see the principle based on which you expanded the possible number of expropriation users. I'll tell you my personal attitude. My personal position is to be owned, i.e. that the user of expropriation is someone who owns or uses funds in the state property, not his status in the register, but the property he has. That's where it opens, dear viewers, a new problem. They've already forged a law under which state property will be state property of republican importance, state property... The locals won't let you know, I knew someone was going to run, but I didn't know it was you. We won't let you do that. The SRS won't allow you to do that, because if Serbia gave it to you, you would have destroyed this little bit of what's left of Serbia. Jojic has been reading to you for months here what you have given all the land. What, for how many years? Now, my Dragan, because of this and such a lease, Vukic and Gilas were acting on temporary measures in Zemun. They sold the location before the time, before the election, so it went bad, so the mob's after them to kill them because they didn't get the land. That is why Serbian citizens do not know why temporary measures have been imposed in Zemun. Citizens of Serbia, you know, since you couldn't see it either in the City Assembly or in the media, temporary measures have been introduced in Zemun, some of the temporary authorities have gathered some gangs because they didn't bring the statutes, and the city municipality can't have statutes. Unbelievable, but we'll do it on Monday on the Committee on Local Self-Government. Let me tell you, this sentence that I told you, your Minister Markovic wrote in one of his expert opinions a few months ago about the application of the Law on Local Self-Government. Just smile. While you're smiling, Serbia is falling apart. The next question is, if you go back to decommissioning the concept of state property in the Republic of Serbia, that the titler of that property is not the Republic of Serbia, that the rights on behalf of it are being exercised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the technical issues of use and management are being carried out by the Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia, you are already decomposing it, and you are sending Pajtic to Mosina Villa or Bosca Ristic to Nis, that he manages, then this law is not good, this law should be torn up and thrown away, because the law will serve you as a means to disperse and this little thing that remains in Serbia, then we will not vote. We will try to convince you with some amendments, as Boris Tadic of this place convinced him of what Pajtic was doing in Vojvodina, so now he seems to have a little bit of understanding. He'll probably understand what Gilas is doing to him in Belgrade, too, probably. It would be good for him to understand what he's doing to him. And Cirko, and Sjojic from the White Ship, has this gallery... He made up Boris Tadic's "White Ship", he invented Cirka, Sojic, etc. I have to have some fun for the viewers to realize that the subject is serious, but now I have to go back to the other part, should there be any solutions to this bill that in practice would mean stopping life? Understand how serious the subject is. Take one street where there is no sewerage, but there are septic pits, so septic pits pour out. The municipality, the city decides to communally take care of it and must inevitably enter into the property of an individual. It's done in the expropriation process. What's the public interest? Seizing the sewers, fixing the road. We also have to think about that aspect when we talk about this law. There are some solutions in this law, but I'm saying, generally there's a problem with this law -- where control mechanisms are. Something's unimaginable. It was only during Hitler's time that the law on law enforcement was passed. It wouldn't surprise me at all if you were to propose such a law, and here's why, I'm going to read you a sentence that should never be in the law. It's a sentence of nothingness. See what the smart brains of the "yellow color" have come up with, says: "The solution to expropriation, as well as the solution to administrative transfer, has been made without a solution that has established a public, or general interest in expropriation, i.e. administrative transfer of immovableity is nothing. "The question arises how is it possible to make a solution to the expropriation if there is no prior public interest? This is how you say he's in some kind of N.N. the municipality may adopt an expropriation solution, although no public interest has been identified. What is your relationship to the law? Just like Gilasov. According to the Belgrade city's statutes, the township's townships could have been passed since 1 January 2009, and he sought measures because it was not adopted by 17 November 2008. If you're already kidnapping, kidnap with style, even if it's intelligent, political, tananical, fine, so someone can think a little bit about what you're up to, don't be so brutal. This is so brutal, obviously, the satellite shows illegality. What's nothing about that? So you're allowing the beginning of nothingness. Now there are some things, I have to commend it, it was an earlier big problem, when some land is blown up to create an object, so the problem of the site appears, now predicts the possibility of temporary takeover of some land. This is certainly justified and it is good that it has been introduced into this law, but it had to be time-limited to the state of temporary land use. I'm not sure, I think when it comes to administrative transfer, and you're not really sure what you've intervened, because it doesn't change the property character of the land, it's in state property, it's only from one user to another, I don't think there was any need to change. There are some other things you had to do, if not some new law, it's real burdens, at least here to predict, but you didn't, it's probably not a big problem. This is the situation where the owner of the land is banned from digging more than 80 centimeters on that track; this is the burden that suffers its immobility, i.e. he, as the owner, is limited to the absolute use of the rights he has on that property. I think there's a good solution to the bank guarantee. It was a problem at one time, a bank guarantee was constantly being made, no matter how long the procedure lasted. Now it's given some indexation process, something like that, that's a good solution. But there is still the problem Mr Batic was talking about. That's the problem, that's what I have to say. It is a problem of practice and how this law will apply. A tycoon, a "typhoon", appears as you will, and that Soldatovic from the "white ship" pays Cirko, will win power. That's why they grab for the election, to legalize it, with 2% becoming a factor. The ball must be watched, if it's time for the election. Rosca is watching the ball, if it's time for the election. If it's election time, they come in with 6% with Gilas, power, like these pygmies are small. You know, small parties grab the authorities and then feed the big ones. Soldatovic is behind it, tycoon. The "white ship", the world, is such a political scene in Serbia, the "white ship". Everything that says doesn't apply in practice, citizens, nothing applies in practice. Why? They've gathered to finish this job, they have no choice. Now, we've tried to fix this bill with amendments. I have to tell you, I doubt we'll be able to fix this bill, because there's a whole other principle here when the bill of law is being considered in the National Assembly. Here are the important side effects: whether the MP is well-trained, whether he uses 16 minutes when he comes out for a pay phone to make all the nice "respected, respected" chooses, greetings, whether he is European-defined, whether he is caught by a camera, whether he is showered three times a day, not what he says about the bill. I have to remind you, citizens, 100,000 people are going to lose their jobs, probably because of the law that you opened our market and removed customs. You can consult on both Baba's hip and Kopalnik and the tycoons, you can enjoy the bliss of yours, sir, ma'am, but go through the streets, go to the periphery, talk to the citizens, they know very well that today is a miracle to save a job in Serbia. Please, five months ago, I was telling you, you're talking about the Fiat, you make a decision to drive only Fiata vehicles from the flag, that the government only drives the Fiata from the flag, nothing else. If you're going to push a trotine, it doesn't matter. So we have one mirage situation, it's said -- the global financial crisis over virtual money; it's this plastic money that's gone. With us you know what it's like – don't accidentally take credit, because when these Austrians and the others who draw their money, it'll be very dangerous. Mrs. Secretary is probably ashamed to say what's going on with the vault. Now I'm going to give a nice creamworth to my big friends to the press. Here, researchers, you know, something is repeating (the columnist is there), something is repeating: in September, October 2003 (there were MPs who were then in the Assembly) MPs who couldn't lift the diary, there was no money, you fell out of power. Here, you haven't had any money for the journals in a few days, it's gotten close to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-06-0.u14714	Thank you. I fully agree that the law does not apply in practice until the Assembly adopts it. Does anyone else want a word, since they're no longer registered, or someone who hasn't used his right to Article 93? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm finishing the initial search. We're finishing today's workday. I'm scheduled for next session on Tuesday, March 10th, 2009, starting at 10:00 p.m. I'm taking the opportunity to recognize a little better atmosphere in the congregation. Get some rest and get ready, and we'll move on next week.
