ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24205	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 129 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 86 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 126 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs: Professor Borislav Pelevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Since the National Assembly has completed a search on all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE BUDGETS SYSTEM The National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and we move to a decision. I put the draft bill on the budget system to vote, in principle. For 126, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that it is the Legislative Committee, on the basis of Article 148(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as incomplete amendments of the People's MPs Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanovic, Vladan Jeremic, Dejan Mirović, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksic, Vjerica Radete, Srete Perić, Mirko Munjic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Aleksandra Martinović, Momira Marković and Milorad Krstin per article. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 86, 88, 89, 89, 91, 92, 93, 94, 96, 97, 98, 99, 99, 99, 101, 101, 104, 104, 105, 108, 107, 107, 108, 107, 110, 110, 110, 111, 111, 112, 111, 113, 113, 113. The Legislative Committee is also, on the basis of Article 147(2). Rules of Procedure, rejected MP Veroljub Arsic's amendment to Article 2nd point 60th and amendments submitted jointly by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic to Article 7th paragraph 5. It's a bill of law. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. This is specified by Article 148(3). Rules of Procedure. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendments of the People's MPs Veroljub Arsic to Article 2, Branka Ljiljak per article. 2, 14, 15 and 23, Milet Poscurica and Veroljub Arsic on Article 9, Nenad Popovic on Article. 10th and 47th, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Đurić on Article 17, Tomislav Nikolic and Jorgovanka Tabaković on Article 28, Dragan Colić and Zoran Antić on Article 34, Radovan Radovanovic on Art. 50, 58 and 106, Milan Lapčević, Arsen Đurić and Miroslav Petkovic, members of 62th and Zoran Babić and Ljiljana Miladanovic, as well as amendments of the Government to Article 79. 22, 107, and an amendment proposed by the government to add Article 112a after Article 112a. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Milutin Jelic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Please plead. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Jorgenka Tabaković. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 2(2) of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. During the review of the draft law, the proposing representative accepted the amendment in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 119 of 126 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Mico Rogovic. For no one, of 126 MPs. The amendment was not accepted. Pursuant to Article 4 of the amendment, Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. During the review of the draft law, the proposing representative accepted the amendment in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 123, of 126 MPs. The National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Of the 126 MPs, one voted yes. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 5th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Mico Rogovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Arsen Djuric and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic, Arsen Djuric and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Djuric and Milan Lapčević together submitted the 10th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 10th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 14 of the amendment, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5, the Financial Committee submitted its submissions. The promoter has accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 119 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Zankov and Mico Rogovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 17 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. The promoter has accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 112 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Srdjan Spasojevic together submitted the 19th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Otto Kishmarton. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 22nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 22, paragraph 5, Article 142 is amended as follows: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 123 voted yes. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 24th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. On the basis of Article 28 of the amendment, paragraph 5, Article 142 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 124 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milos Radulovic, Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric of 126 MPs submitted to the 28th amendment, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Arsen Djuric, Milos Radulovic and Miroslav Petkovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Pursuant to Article 31 of the amendment, Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 113 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. Member of the 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Radojko Obradovic submitted an amendment to Article 35. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Masic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted for the amendment. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic, Arsen Djuric and Milos Radulovic submitted the 44th amendment together. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Lapčević, Arsen Djuric and Miroslav Petkovic submitted together to the 46th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Radovan Radovanovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sasa Maksimovic and Milan Knezevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Slobodan Maras, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Nikolic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 55th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Budimirovic and Veroljub Arsic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 56th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 56th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The title above Articles 67 and 57 of the amendment shall be, on the basis of Article 142, paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. I'm asking the Assembly to come forward. Of the 126 MPs, 115 voted in favour. I find that the Assembly has voted in favour of the amendment. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Antic and Mico Rogovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. An MP named Otto Kishmarton submitted to the 62nd amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Maksimovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 63rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Miladanovici Veroljub Arsic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Jorganka Tabakovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 81st Amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 82nd amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Obradovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Popovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milan Lapčević, Arsen Đuric, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic submitted together to the 84th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Milan Lapčević, Arsen Đuric, Miroslav Petkovic and Milos Radulovic submitted together to the 85th amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 92nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 100th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gojko Radic and Veroljub Arsic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Pursuant to Article 103 of the amendment, Article 142, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Finance Committee. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Of the 126 MPs, 115 voted in favour. The amendment has been accepted. On Article 103 of the amendment, with correction, they jointly submitted: Cedomir Jovanovic, Slobodan Maras, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Finance Committee didn't accept it. The Legislative Committee considers it legally possible. The vote was 112, of 126 MPs. The amendment has been accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to Article 103 of the amendment. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. National MPs Miroslav Petkovic and Arsen Djuric submitted the amendment to Article 103. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. Of 126 MPs, one for. The amendment was not accepted. Parliamentarians Milan Lapčević, Miroslav Petkovic, Milos Radulovic and Milos Aligrudic submitted the amendment to Article 103. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 107th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Pelevic and Jorvanka Tabakovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 110th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Predrag Mijatovic and Stefan Zankov. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Milos Radulovic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. Gentlemen, I am putting the draft bill on the budget system to the vote, as a whole. 124 MPs voted in favour, of 126, so I find that the National Assembly passed the draft bill on the budgetary system. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Republic of Republic Administrating Taxes Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move to a decision and I am voting on the proposal for this law, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 124 voted yes. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Of the 126 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Please plead. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric, Aleksandra Ilic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. Of the 126 MPs none for. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Aleksandra Ilic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic, Aleksandra Ilic and Milutin Jelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milutin Jelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milutin Jelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milutin Jelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jankovic and Milutin Jelic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. Of the 126 MPs, no one for it. The amendment was not accepted. I remind you he's a 20. The bill envisions that this law enters into force the next day since the day of its publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force at the earliest eight days from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons set out in their adoption. In the light of the draft law, the Government stated that the particularly justified reasons for the early entry into force of this law, within the meaning of Article 196(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia consists in the need to agree as soon as possible on the subject of a tax liability with the Political Party Act, Official Messenger, number 36/09. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of its publication and I would like to make it clear. Of the 126 MPs, 123 were declared to be, so I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force within a shorter period than the eighth day of the day of the publication of this law. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in general. Of the 126 MPs, 125 were declared, so I find that the National Assembly passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF DURING THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE USE OF MARFIN BANK A.D. BELGRADE BY THE PUBLIC PUBLICATION OF "SERBIA" After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Marfin Bank" of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" of 126 MPs, 126 have pleaded for the law. The National Assembly accepted the bill, in principle. The Legislative Committee is, on the basis of Article 148(2). Rules of Procedure, rejected as incomplete amendments by MPs Vladan Batic to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Proposal for a law, but pursuant to Article 148(3). The rules of procedure of the rejected amendments cannot be discussed and shall not be voted upon. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. All 126 present deputies voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the "Marfin Bank" of Belgrade under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" in general. We move to item 4 of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON WORK After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Labour Act, in principle. Of the 126 MPs, 125 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that MPs Djordje Milicevic, Zoran Kasalovic and Sasa Dujovic withdrew the amendments they submitted to Article 1. It's a bill of law. I also remind you that the Legislative Committee, as incomplete, rejected amendments by the People's MPs Milorad Buha, Zoran Krasic, Lidija Dimitrijevic, Dragan Stevanović, Vladan Jeremic, Dejan Mirović, Milan Avramović, Boris Aleksic, Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Perić, Mirko Munjic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Aleksandar Martinović and Momir Markovic together submitted to the article. 1st and 2nd. The draft law shall, in accordance with Article 148(3). The Rules of Procedure don't vote on these amendments. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Krpic. Of the 126 MPs, four voted in favour. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on the completion of the Labour Act, in general. Of the 126 MPs, 123 voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Labour Act. We move on to the National Assembly's decision on employees' injuries. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the Assembly will, without delay, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 15 July 2009, pointed to a 27-member injury at 12.08 hours. Rules of Procedure. I ask that the National Assembly declare whether the said member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Of the 126 MPs, no one voted in favour. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. I'd just like to give you a few more information. We're planning for the session to begin at exactly 15.00 hours, and I'd like to ask that plan to be implemented. We are also planning that due to the need for certain works to be carried out technically in this building in August, we should finish the session and be effective by the end of this month. If it's necessary, we'll work on Saturdays. There may be a vote on the last day of this month. So we have to arm ourselves with patience, but we do an extremely useful and important job. (The session is closed at 14.25 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24206	THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA National Assembly OF THE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT 11th Extraordinary SESSION 16th of July 2009 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 15.05 p.m. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, president of the National Assembly, holds the presidency. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. On the basis of the official record of the presence of Members of the People's Parliament, I find that 142 MPs attend the session, and in order to identify the number correctly, please insert identification cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 120 MPs are present at this point, so there are conditions for starting work. Before we continue my work, I would like to inform you, and on the basis of Article 85(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the National Assembly today will extend the work after 1800 hours, until the debate on the agenda is over. Whether or not one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 235. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24208	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm asking the Secretary of Defense and the Ministry of Defense about the unkind events surrounding the crash of a military jet "mig" at the airport in Batajnica on July 7th of this year. This is already the second accident that happened to us. Last year, the same accident also took place, related to practically the same event, that is, the preparation of pilots to participate in the Aeromitting that was to be held. That already speaks of some serious problems at the Ministry of Defense, or in your air force. Unfortunately, we have a country like this. It went over the event very quickly. Apparently, we're waiting for a report from the commission that was formed, which should give us all the information, but for the sake of the public, I'm asking the Ministry of Defense to give us first of all some information that I think is extremely important. The pilot Rade Rangelovic had a 900-hour flight trip in total for 25 years. If I tell you that an average civil aviation pilot has about 800 hours a year, then you'll see what a drastic difference that is. In last year, Rade Rangelovic had only 20 hours of impact, and it was supposed to be flying in acrobatic flight, which says it's the number of attacks that absolutely do not satisfy that kind of flying. The question arises – who insisted that Rade Rangelovic fly, although it is obvious that according to these indicators he was unable to perform the task? I suppose that Rade Rangelovic, professionally challenged, in no case would refuse the task, but the question is, who asked him to do it? Who asked you to do that last year? Is it because of the promotion of the minister, who wants to show the citizens of Serbia how ready our army is, that only cheap propaganda tricks are hidden behind it to deceive Serbian citizens, and that we pay for both human victims and large material victims? What is also characteristic of this crash, although the moment 29 was equipped with a catapulting seat, so-called. 00, that means that zero meters can be catapulted, the system is absolutely not even running, which suggests that the question of the pilot's ability to perform such a task is raised. I'm asking this as a question because I have reason to believe that this committee that's formed will try to cover up all the data, all the relevant facts, and that in every way, it will look to the Minister of Defence's relationship, which has great responsibility in this. The Minister doesn't mind one lost life, one lost plane. He's with his brother-in-law in Greece on vacation. From what I hear, it's only for the cost of sleeping that he has to pay about 10 to 15 thousand euros. Well, you gentlemen, MPs and citizens of Serbia, ask yourself a question - how did Shulet get so much money?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24209	Mr. Milos Aligrudic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24210	I have a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, I would ask Boris Tadic, since it is the head of the government of the Republic of Serbia, everything else has nothing to do with this information that came as some allegedly beautiful news about the white Schengen. The white Schengen should represent a visa liberalisation that would allow Serbian citizens to travel freely, without visas, using only their new biometric passport, to EU countries. It would certainly be wonderful news, something the DSS has been pushing for years, which is essentially not related to joining the EU, but has to do with the standards that the EU applies to its citizens and those countries with which it establishes relations that allow liberal, or free movement of people. What we heard, however, points to great concern. What we heard from EU officials is that so-called White Schengen, i.e. The possibility of visa-free travel to the EU is possible for one category of Serbian citizens, while for another category of Serbian citizens this will not be possible. It has been said that citizens of Serbia living in KIM territory will not be able to use this right, but those Serbian citizens will still need visas. This is not a double track system, because the system was applied to CEFTU as a contract, so there are all citizens of Serbia, whether they live in KIM or in Serbia in exactly the same position. On the other hand, visa liberalisation, i.e. A visa-free trip to Europe will obviously be subject to another requirement, which is that the government of the Republic of Serbia provides a borderline between KIM and Serbia as an interstate border. All of this shows that the DSS was right when it said that the EU's position on KIM must be specifically considered and that it must serve as a basis for any further EU talks to clarify the relationship. Obviously, this relationship is now being clarified by the EU's factual steps, which suggest that EU KiM, as a whole, not individual EU countries, is being treated as a completely separate country. My question is very simple: what will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do, i.e. Boris Tadic, to provide all Serbian citizens with this right that Serbia will acquire after the EU contract? What will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do in possible negotiations with the European Commission that all holders of biometric passports in Serbia, issued by the legal state authorities of Serbia, can use these passports without a Schengen visa when going to the EU? Is it possible that our MPs in the Serbian Parliament, regardless of what parliamentary groups they are from, will you have them in G17 plus, SRS, DSS, DSS, is it possible that these MPs, if they come from KIM territory, will have to ask for a visa, with the same biometric passport that I will own, and that I will not have to ask for that visa? Of course, it's not my fault that I won't have to ask for a visa, as I don't feel bad that most Serbian citizens won't have to look for it. That's what I look forward to, honestly. But I must say that I most sincerely regret it if Serbian authorities, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, ignore the constitutional position of all citizens and do not do what is necessary for Serbian citizens to travel on equal terms to EU countries by using a passport legally issued by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, a biometric passport known as the right to travel to a visa-free regime. How is that possible? I would ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to answer this very important question and to tell us what it will do specifically in its talks with European partners so that this right, personally, for Serbian citizens, Serbian citizens is provided in an equal manner and on equal terms?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24211	The word is Jovan Damjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24212	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable President, allow me, although it is a little late, to give a little clarification about the incident that took place on July 8th in this room, where there has been a interruption of the work of the Assembly. I did leave a card in the machine, but there's got to be a reason why and what happened. During my work, the Assembly rang the phone and I was told it was the Assembly's security, and I was called to move the car because I was disturbing the entrance of the fire department. I thought it was my responsibility and it was an emergency. That's why I got out quickly, and I forgot my card. But when I got to the car, it wasn't about any fireman's car, it was about a clean one of the manipulations and frauds in the Assembly, to get out of the Assembly, to get Mr. Todorovic to take out my card and to make a script here. I'm sure... [[jamour in the O.R.]] (President: Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is no time for replicas, this is not the time for such reactions. Go ahead, Mr. Damjanovic. ) I want to distance myself from other members of the SRS, this is directly, personally, Mr. Dragan Todorovic. I didn't have any problems with any members of the SRS personally. I'm out of the U.S.S., and the whole SRS knows why I'm out. When I contacted Mr. Todorovic about my problems, he said, "Joja, they want to recruit you." If I need to be recruited by the party I was in, then everything was clear to me and I got out of the party. Please, I do not represent Jovan Damjanovic here, I represent the Roma community, the Democratic Left of Roma political party, which is in accordance with the regulations registered in this country, and I represent here the Roma people. If you, Mr. Todorovic, think of me as such an escalation, it is not towards me, it is according to the entire Roma community. I think you have other obligations, like me, and you don't have to do one inappropriate way of doing these scenarios the way you used to be. I mean, Dr. Seselj saved our children from the epidemic and disease, because he gave them infrastructure, sewerage, plumbing, etc. You, Mr. Todorovic, are attacking the same community. It's not an SRS program, it's your program. Please don't take such an escalation over my national minority anymore. (President: Mr. MP, use the opportunity to ask questions, not to address any other MP. ) I informed, let me, the very top of the MUP, they invited me here, I was at the interview and I believe I was threatened by Mr. Todorovic. When he could do it like this in the congregation, this scenario, what could happen. But that's why I've notified every significant institution in our country. So much so that we know what happened on July 8th.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24213	Since you requested a notice from me, of course, I will collect data from those who are in charge of order in this assembly and follow all the actions you mentioned here and you will be informed. Mr. Riza Halimi has the word. The SRS are rebelling. Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: Where does it say there is no? He can't be insulted. He's entitled to a replica. ) Please, the institution of asking questions does not predict replicas. Please take care of your behavior. Mr. Riza Halimi has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. It reads: What measures can the Ministry of Infrastructure take to remove the current blockades of the village of Rajinca, Crnotinca, Bukorevac, Žujinca, with about 8,000 inhabitants, who cannot use the regional road due to the release into the use of the unfinished section of the Presevo-Levosoje highway, in fact, because of the unfinished or unfinished overpasses, which should connect these settlements with a parallel regional road? Unfinished overpasses, in addition to the traffic blockade of the villages mentioned, further prevent farmers, right in the range of agricultural works, from performing their work, except in the villages mentioned and in a number of other villages, such as Biljača, Samolica, Borovac, Goose, Reljana, Aliđerce, Strezovci, Čukarka, with approximately 15 thousand more inhabitants. The situation is very urgent, because only part of the project was done. That means, the base was built, the base, the asphalt base, actually, the base of the road, and they weren't built, by law and anywhere in the set, provided overpasses on the highway. For the village of Samoljica, with 1,500 inhabitants, no overpass is foreseen at all and they are further disabled in this case. In this regard, he also addressed the president of the Bujanovac municipality to the minister, but so far there is no answer. I'm taking this opportunity to take this village for this difficult situation to answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Prime Minister and most ministers, ten days ago, have officially opened a section of this highway, and the fact that these entire villages with a huge population remained blocked suggests one, in my opinion, a truly indicative situation, that the government only cares about state projects, and that there is absolutely no minimum attention on the impact and the position of the local population in these projects. On the one hand, we can hear from here that this is an additional development component for these areas, even we have criticism from Minister Markovic sent to the presidents of Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities that they are inert, incompetent, unable to work, to exploit Corridor 10. And how do they use Corridor 10 when they're actually doing projects that directly endanger the fundamental human rights of these people on the ground. The same practice as the border crossing, the state project continues, and domestic people on the ground are no living employees. So, absolutely in this case, there was no concern that, with the construction of the highway on time, it was supposed to be there and there had to be an overpass and that people were going to get over these problems they're having right now, and it's probably going to be a few months. That's why I insist on the urgency of this situation, because it really doesn't make sense to treat people like this in the field. In addition, if there was more time, we were witnessing these days at the highest level of Presevo and Bujanovac, when... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24215	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24216	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, yesterday, responding to the European Commission's views on the introduction of visa liberalisation to Serbian citizens, Prime Minister Cvetkovic insulted more than half of Serbia's citizens, placing us in two categories of citizens and saying -- see now that the DS and coalition gathered around it meet their promises. I ask the Prime Minister's statement, has all of Serbia met the conditions to be placed on the white Schengen list, has all Serbian citizens suffered in both economic and financial, both politically and in any other sense, or is it only the DS and most of them gathered around it? Will that measure be applied exclusively to those who support DS, and the others may have to wait differently? Is the Prime Minister the Prime Minister of Serbia or the Prime Minister of the DS and the parties gathered around it? I consider it an insult and a humiliation to all Serbian citizens, and even those who belong to that DS and the parties gathered around it in some majority, because it began to single out particularly with the DS campaigns of a few years ago, when we were uncultural, we were unworthy, both of those who are cultural and worthy. I think you should, Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, but who would now prove it to you, you have a lot of work to do, to send a letter to the Prime Minister, to inform him that the National Assembly is largely responsible for this, because it has passed laws and created an ambience and conditions that have been assessed as conditions that allow Serbian citizens to travel without visas through EU member states and some that are not, and that would be the right answer of the National Assembly to one thoughtless, provocative, insolent and offensive statement by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24217	Thank you. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the institution of asking parliamentary questions has only effects if these questions are answered. The government or individual ministers, by not giving adequate answers, show that they do not respect parliament, ignore parliament, have no sense of responsibility for elected MPs and their issues. That's why you often get to repeat these questions, if not because of irresponsible ministers, then because of citizens who listen. For the third time, I will ask the question – when will Serbia's citizens, on behalf of free actions, be paid a thousand euros, because it was thunderously announced ahead of the previous elections, and whoever did this obviously does not respect the citizens of Serbia, for which, according to him, the message of the old one – does not take the donkey to green grass? I repeat the question this time to the Minister of Agriculture in relation to what I mentioned yesterday about the debate on the budget – when will a new era of respect for farmers, farmers, agricultural producers, people who are clearly second-row citizens in Serbia today begin? I will remind again that Serbia had its place among European countries and nations in the second half of the 19th century thanks to the ethnicity of its peasants. It was the first peasant democracy in Europe. Serbia had a positive foreign trade balance with the United States exactly 100 years ago, thanks to the export of agricultural products. There's nothing of it today. The peasants must provide money for the seeds, for the fertilizer, to process their land, and then look to the sky whether it will be rain, drought, frost, and if they eventually produce something, they should sell it. It's their encounter with the state, with irresponsible authority, and then there's the spilling of milk and raspberries, and the cutting of the cherry, and there's no ransom prices for anything, or for the wheat, and then their sweat, their lusts, their hope, and their future are ignored. Such a policy seems to me that villages will turn into reserves and farmers into Indians. I've asked the Minister of Economy a number of questions about criminal privatisations, such as the privatisation of First Spark in Baric, where you have an apparent crime at work. Once a giant, who employs over 7,000 people, has now grown into thorns and weeds. No obligations under the contract are respected. One of the first spark engines bought a criminal who was sentenced to seven years in prison. And then I return to the wood industry Bora Markovic, which was bought by another criminal, now in custody, because he was arrested as part of some mob. It's privatisations in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24219	Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24220	I have two questions. Both are related practically to the process of degradation of the Assembly. The first question is addressed to you, Madam President, and it concerns precisely this visa discrimination that is happening now, because what is the fact that the National Assembly of Serbia is not familiar, nor are these processes of negotiations of the current government over the white Schengen, which practically points to the conclusion that the government's intention from the very beginning has been to hide from the public what are the real views of the EU and to introduce the division of Serbs, so that, in fact, in Serbia, even though the Serbian Constitution guaranteed rights, we become citizens of the second order, and Schengen is white Serbs. It's something that appeared as a circular message. You can find it on Facebook, on the Internet, even graphites have appeared. So the question for you is – how is it possible that we in the Serbian Parliament did not discuss what these are the last negotiations on white Schengen and how we were able to allow this kind of discrimination and practical condolences in the process of recognising so-called. Independent Kosovo countries? What happens if the same thing happens to Vojvodina again? If they say – can Schengen be white, but now the Vojvodina must be divided, so that Serbs in Vojvodina do not have the right to seek this white Schengen? In addition, the issue was already raised by the deputy head of the New Serbia parliamentary group, Mr Markicevic, the answer was not. The second question, ahead of this urgent debate of yours, which has the character of the media saber, is not addressed to you, is addressed to the prime minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Bozidar Djelic, of course to my favorite ministry, Minister of Culture and Assistant Minister of Culture. What's this about? I am interested in why the government did not pass on a recently signed loan agreement relating to the lending of small and medium-sized media, because it was announced that the contract signed would have to be ratified and forwarded to the Assembly, so that after the urgent procedure of the Assembly on it, which means that if this law caught the summer driving order, the funds could begin to withdraw in September, October, and if ratification remains for autumn – only at the end of the year? What's this about? The citizens of Serbia should be informed. In fact, almost a month ago, we learned that the European Investment Bank is ready to approve Serbia to overcome the economic financial crisis in print media ten and electronically between 20m and 30m euros. Serbian Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic, a man of considerable euphoria after talks with representatives of the European Investment Bank in Luxembourg, noted that this is a neutral measure that does not favour any paper or electronic media, but treats everything in the same way and is achieved in dialogue with business banks. The question we could ask is if, who and under what conditions could count on those funds? The details of the announced money had no Ministry of Culture. In fact, at the Ministry of Culture, Assistant Minister of Culture for Media Natasa Vučković-Lesendric said the ministry had sent a proposal to the government for a package of measures for media intervention, which proposed a reduction in the fees paid by the broadcasters to the Republic Broadcasting Agency, the Telecommunications Agency, customs reliefs for the re-promoting of printed media, as well as some additional funds from the existing budget reserve. It is about measures, according to the ministerial assistant, whose first effects will be felt within the next month. So now they're supposed to feel. What it feels like is that you are actually entering the media link, doing a media saber, which unfortunately can be the introduction to a serious action called "Sabbe" the second time, already seen. Says the assistant minister - we won't stop at that. That's for sure. He says that, apart from this intervention aid, the Ministry will prepare another package of measures that requires more time, and besides that it provides for amendments to the Advertising Act. Interesting. Of course, as regards the reduction of VAT, which is being advocated by the media industry, it is noted that the Ministry has also proposed this to the government, but an analysis of the current situation has made it known that there is no room for such a thing. So, what's the connection to what's supposed to be delivered to the Assembly with the media...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24221	In order for any item to be found on the agenda during the extraordinary session, including a debate on visa liberalisation, either 84 MPs or the Government with a pre-established agenda should submit a proposal to the Assembly. Of course, I'd put that on the agenda. It didn't happen, and we weren't able to have the agenda with that point in work and consideration. Before we continue our work, I would like to remind you once again that, in accordance with Article 85 of Article 5, we will also work after 1800 hours on the agenda that will then be on the agenda. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following ambassadors: Borislav Pelevic and Radoslav Mojsilovic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in a given agenda as soon as possible. According to Article 88(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that I have called for today's session, in addition to representatives of the promoter Neboja Bradic, Culture Minister, and Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister, to attend Nadica Momirov, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Predrag Blagojevic, Secretary of the Culture Ministry, Tatjana Bojić-Juric, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Culture and Natasa Vuković-Lesendrić, Assistant Minister of Culture. With the invitation of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, which was convened at the government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 169 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 11th extraordinary session, with the predetermined agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009 the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Information Act, 2. Proposal for a Law on Culture, 3. Proposal for a law on co-operation with the International Criminal Court, 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Penalty, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in combating organised crime, 6. Proposal for a law on the execution of a prison sentence for organized crime, 7. A Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, 10. Proposal for a law on the basis of an education and education system, 11. Proposal for a Law on textbooks and other teaching tools, 12. Proposal for a law on regulation of space and construction, 13. Proposal for a law on national diameter and catastrosis, 14. “ What Is It? ”? 4 / 15 Proposal for a Law on the Environment Fund, 16. Proposal for a Law on Public Health, 17. Proposal for a law on transfusiological activity, 18. Proposal for an organ transplant law, 19. Proposal for a cell and tissue transplant law, 20. Proposal for a law on the treatment of infertility by biomedical assisted fertilisation, 21. Proposal for a Law on National Minority Councils, 22. Proposal for a law confirming the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank and the National Bank of Serbia ("Apeks Loan for Small and Medium Enterprises"), 23. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement (additional financing of health projects) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 24. Proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to Alpha Bank Serbia a.d. Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad and Piraeus Banka.d. Belgrade. National MP Dejan Radenkovic, pursuant to Article 90(3) of Article 142(2) and Article 152 paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the next joint search be carried out. First, a joint principled search on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and - Proposal for a Law on Culture. Second, a joint principled search on: - Proposal for a Law on Co-operation with the International Criminal Court, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Penalty, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Facilitation of Organized Crimes, - Proposal for a Law on the Penalty of Criminal Crime, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. Third, joint principled search on: - Proposal for a Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and - Proposal for a Law on textbooks and other educational means. Fourthly, a joint principled search on: - Proposal for a law on the regulation of space and construction, - Proposal for a law on state diameter and cataster, - Proposal for a law on social security, and - Proposal for a law on the Environmental Protection Fund. Fifth, joint principled search on: - Proposal for a Law on Public Health, - Proposal for a Law on Transfusion Activity, - Proposal for a Law on Organ Transplantation, - Proposal for a Law on Cell and Tissue Transplantation, and - Proposal for a Law on the Treatment of Infertility by Biomedical Aided Insemination Procedures. The sixth, joint single and principled search on: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank of Serbia ("Apeks Loan for Small and Medium Enterprises") - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (additional financing of the Health Project) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and - Proposal for a Law on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Alpha Bank of Serbia, Vojvodjanska Banka a.d. Novi Sad and Piraeus Banka. Does MP Dejan Radenkovic want a word? No, I don't. ) First of all, let's determine the voting quorum. Since we have a quorum, I'd like to make a statement about this proposal. Of the 128 MPs, 125 came out. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We move on to a joint principled search of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Information and Proposal for a Law on Culture Mr Dragan Todorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting by article 101 for the replica, since I've been mentioned on several occasions in my previous presentation. I think that in the best possible way both Serbian citizens and MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly can see how far Serbia headed Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party. This is a time of party justice. This is the time of the party interpretation of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure. This is the ideological time, when they used to ride the priestess, pull up their mustaches, judge people without a court of law, and you come back at that time again. Your only criterion is your political utility and nothing more. It's a shame to point to a thief here. Here it is a shame to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it is no shame to steal, no shame to violate the Rules of Procedure, it is desirable, if in such a way DS can achieve some goal. That's all that matters to you. It best shows this moment. You voted what you wanted, and right now, the ruling majority's MPs are starting to do other things, because you're absolutely not interested in the Assembly. You're only interested in your political goal. Therefore, nothing else comes to mind. In front of him, you're ready to break everything, absolutely everything. You've been doing it for almost a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24223	Thank you. It's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24224	I've got three minutes on the line, at least learn that much. The replica can't last longer than three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24225	You've reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24226	Look at the stenogram. I said I'm picking up the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24227	No, I don't. It's my right to assess if there's a reason for the replica. I've assessed that at this point in time and in this situation, you have no right to a replica, and I haven't given you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24228	Why don't you say that in the beginning, Mrs. Dejanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24229	The word is Mrs. Alexandra Jankovic. You'll have to reapply, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24230	I had to reset this, as we reset relations with America, with Palestine, and now we reset these units here. I am reporting in accordance with Article 94(4), under which a representative of the parliamentary group shall have the right to propose for a longer period of debate for parliamentary groups than the time set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. Namely, since you have put all these points together in an incredible way, so that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and the Proposal for a Law on Culture goes as one point, without talking about joining further grandmothers and frogs, it would really be essential for the Assembly to now declare the proposal to double the time foreseen for the debate. Another thing that I think is very important to mention, and it concerns all of us, and I propose, is a minute of silence for the dead Serbian citizens, 11 people, who died in Egypt in the summer near Luxor. I don't even think this proposal should be discussed. I think it's about keeping a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24231	Mrs Jankovic, of course we didn't get to that point and that, unanimously, I will decide by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search and that we will make a statement about the time, and ask you for a statement about it, so that part is not disputed, but before that you have already reported, as well as Mr Todorovic. The word is Mr. Vladan Batic, then Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic. The word has Mrs. Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24232	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Article 170. Rules of Procedure. I think you'd have to repeat the vote on setting the agenda, because in this proposal the government sent us for today's session, we don't have a bill on social security that you voted on. You can look at the stenogram, I don't think it's a problem to prepare you, but you voted on it. So we don't even have it in the material. I don't know what this is about, but you've established a agenda with the Social Security Act proposal in the fourth group of laws where the debate is brought together. I don't really know how you're going to get out of that situation, but I think it would be the most normal thing to do again.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24233	Mrs. Pop-Lazic, all the materials were delivered to all the MPs. Have I made any mistakes? Thank you for your suggestions. I'll take a look at the stenogram. It is only clear that all MPs understood and had before them the text of the agenda. If I have possibly made a mistake in reading, I do apologize, but the essence is here and we have essentially spoken of the agenda to the clear majority. If I accidentally made a mistake, I'm really sorry. You had your agenda in front of you. It's about the bill on social housing, and I hope all MPs knew it was about this law. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 and 2 and before the opening of a joint search, I remind you to comply with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to political groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament's groups. Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24234	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported to advertise the violation of Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure on the work of our Assembly. It says, "The law can, exceptionally, be carried out by emergency procedure. Only laws governing issues and relations can be adopted following an urgent procedure due to circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of laws under urgent procedure could cause adverse consequences for people's lives and health, the country's safety and the work of organs and organisations. The legislator is obliged to state, in a written explanation of the bill, the adverse consequences that would arise as a result of the law being passed by an urgent procedure." Not to enter all other legislators and representatives of the Government, according to this point you have just combined, and these are amendments and additions to the Information Act and the Law on Culture, Proposer Mr Bradic does not mention an emergency procedure at all, nor does he propose an emergency procedure, as a process to be discussed on the Culture Act. You've combined two points of the agenda. You're making it impossible for us to discuss each other in one normal way. We believe that both are extremely important, and also – or we should respect this Rules of Procedure which we respect even though we deeply disagree with it or should say that there is nothing here that defines our relations, except the need for the authorities to act in any way by violating the basic preconditions of normal political life in the country. Mr. Bradic, can you explain to us why, in an emergency procedure and in a joint debate, we now need to discuss the law on amendments to the Information and Culture Law? It may be on Mećavnik, Mr. Bradic, but it can't be in the Serbian Parliament. We want to talk about the system law here. Our parliamentary group will have 13 minutes to discuss two important laws like this. You haven't even met the elemental preconditions, i.e. You did not specify the reason why you insisted on an emergency procedure. Here is the law on culture, for reasons of law-making, there is no mention of emergency procedure as the procedure under which they will operate – it is a disrespect of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President. This is mandatory under Rule 164 of the Rules of Procedure. I will now read again to you the position of the 3rd member: "The legislator is obliged to state, in a written explanation of the bill, the adverse consequences that would result from the passing of the law by emergency procedure." Reasons for the adoption of the law, i.e. the adoption of an emergency law, i.e. The public information law mentions an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24235	Thank you. Of course, as the Assembly, we have declared a common principle search. As far as the amendments are concerned, they take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24236	Madam President, I am just quoting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that we are working on, the Rules of Procedure which obliges us to be competent, to work responsibly, to respect one another - there is no respect here. We represent the interests of the citizens who voted for us. We can't normally work, if by law, or the law on culture and information law we discuss in a united debate, and we still have an urgent procedure for the law on culture, although we don't know what the reason for that is. What's so important in the law on culture is that for the sake of interest, I don't know, the safety of the country, the life and health of the people, we are now discussing an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24237	Thank you. I just want to explain -- that an emergency procedure is one element of thinking, and the joint principled search that we have declared is a completely different element of our work. In case you're not satisfied, we can only say in the voting day. Mrs. Aleksandra Jankovic has already suggested that time be extended. Do you want to make your proposal again, Mrs. Jankovic? Will you just sign up?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24238	I completely agree that it is extremely inconclusive that the first system law on culture, the roof law, is brought into these conditions and is combined with another important item of the agenda, which is for some unknown reasons for an urgent procedure and must be considered probably now that most citizens are on vacation, is cooling off on Ada, on various rivers, swimming pools, etc., so let's quickly re-mute this and close down the media that are still trying to tell some truth and pass a law on information that is even more restrictive, if possible. Really, it's raining somewhere you, or we're going back in time, and that famous Bronze Times, and it's not even Milosevic's time anymore, because then there was some independent media, and now what's left of some weak independent voices, let's try to choke. On the other hand, I have the same question as Mr Cedomir Jovanovic. I ask Minister Bradic what is it that motivated him to introduce these two laws by emergency procedure today into the procedure? We've been missing the Culture Act for 17 years. It was very serious and were fundamental objections to all possible professional associations. There were two public hearings, although I hate the word, because it seems like a direct translation of an American word, but good. Two public meetings were held within the Committee on Culture and Information, where everyone could make their remarks. Instead of simply returning to the government to dorado, because it is obvious that it is missing, he has now found himself in the process, by in fact the Government is trying to transfer responsibility to us MPs, so that the remarks sent by the professional associations actually formulate us through the amendments. Unless something in this law is right, it will not be a proposer, but MPs who did not cover the essence of the objections made by the professional public. So I'm going back to my proposal. When you've already managed to make a agenda like this, and I'm not talking about the fact that on the agenda, other than these laws on culture, there's also co-operation with the International Criminal Court on the execution of criminal sanctions, and then as in direct connection with the organ transplant law, the law on cell and tissue transplants, you don't know what else you're degraded -- whether these laws from the beginning, from the middle or from the end. You've made such an ambitious agenda, you've adopted it since you've passed this great university. The only thing we can suggest in this situation is that at least the time foreseen for the debate is doubled. Here, I see your MPs are coming back, probably voting for this proposal to have time doubled. Although as a rule, your people don't say anything – they only press these tasters. We are ready to speak and ready to fight for the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24239	Time's up. I'll put this proposal to the vote, of course, but we need to determine the quorum first. I ask the MPs to determine the quorum. Since we don't have the quorum to decide on your proposal, let me inform you, in case we don't come forward, and here we haven't had the opportunity to plead, there's a schedule of time for each MP's group. For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; SRS parliamentary group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; G17 parliamentary group plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds... You'll have to, Goco, you'll have to lead.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24240	The total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, so I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: The Parliamentary Group For European Serbia - one hour, 33 minutes and 36 seconds; the SRS MP group - one hour, seven minutes and 12 seconds; the G17 Group of MPs plus - 28 minutes and 48 seconds; the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica Group - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the MP group "Forward Serbia" - 25 minutes and 12 seconds; the SPS-JS Group - 18 minutes; the MP group LDP - 14 minutes and 24 seconds; the Electoral Group New Serbia - 10 minutes and 48 seconds; the Manjina Group - eight minutes and 24 seconds and the PUPS Group - six minutes. According to Article 93(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups, have the right to speak once to five minutes. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word and with a number of MPs. I would like to inform you that according to this agenda, the following MPs will be: MP Sasa Milenic, MP group G 17 plus, MP Zoran Shami of the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica, MP Gorica Mojović, MP of the ZES Group, MP of the SRS National MP Marina Ragus, MP of the NS National MP Aleksandra Jankovic. That's for now all notices of authorised representatives. If any of the other parliamentary groups have any notices, please deliver the chairman. According to Article 142, paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and on the Proposal for a Law on Culture. Before I ask whether the word of Proponent Representative Nebojsa Bradic, Culture Minister, Reports for Infringements of the Rules of Procedure and receipt of words on the basis of Article 100(1) was submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, MP Vladan Batic, MP Milos Aligrudic and MP Ivan Andric. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. He gets a word based on Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24241	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 21, point 2 and 3. Mrs. Komic, it should be obvious to you, only because of the fact that how many MPs from different parliamentary groups have reported to advertise the Rules of Procedure, how much you have violated today, i.e. Mrs. Djukic-Dejanovic, since the beginning of today's day, how much you have violated the Rules of Procedure. In one explanation of a reaction to the Rules of Procedure, it says that what we have is important, and it does not matter what she says from that place and what MPs vote when it comes to the proposal for a social security law that we have not received at all. On the other hand, you're telling the other MP that what's written is not important, but what's said, and it's about the fact that you've merged into a united discussion of two draft laws. One is in an emergency procedure, as the government has suggested, the other is in a regular procedure. This is not possible, Mrs Comic, because you are thus jeopardising the right of MPs, or you are making it impossible for MPs to do their job in accordance with Article 147, which refers to the submission of amendments. It is not the same regime for the submission of amendments if it is a law of urgency or if the law is in regular procedure. Indeed, such a violation of the Rules of Procedure is something that says that you are in some strange panic, yesterday you reject all amendments of the MPs of the SRS today...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24242	Two minutes, thank you. I'm not sure if you said Article 21 or Article 27, and that's why I have to consult the vice president and the service. They say he's a member of the 21st. If he's a member of 21, then you've misquoted the article. If he's a member of 27, there's no injury to Article 27. During the session, everything is done by business procedure when setting the agenda and voting on the proposal for merger. The nature of the emergency procedure implies that the deadlines for the submission of amendments until the opening of the debate are in principle. The nature of the law under the ordinary procedure implies that this deadline is several days, i.e. five days before this point begins and that in no way or in any of the Rules of Procedure, it is not related to the right of the Proposer to propose that, in the context of a joint principled search of that point, there are no infringements of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. National MP Milos Aligrudic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24243	I also think that Article 27, which speaks of the way in which the chair is acting, as a general provision, does not mean you, but the previous chairman of the National Assembly, and that there has been a violation of the provisions of all the Rules of Procedures of Rule 117, in conclusion with Article 135, with a special emphasis on Article 121 when it comes to the situation where we have the opportunity to vote electronically. Namely, you can't, and yet in accordance with Article 27. Rules of Procedure, I'm going back to him, in different ways to interpret the same situation we're in. A short time ago, it was proposed to vote on the extension of the debate on the points to be discussed, and then the president of the National Assembly proposed that a quorum be established, to see if a vote could be made under the Constitution, and all in the end in accordance with Article 121. It was then found that there were not enough identification cards inserted into the parliamentary units. It was then established where the injury occurred, it was found by the President of the National Assembly that we had come to the situation that the decision had not been made and that we could therefore continue the session, as the Rules of Procedure foresees when such a decision has not been made. The problem is that in some cases when there are not enough identification cards in place, then a pause is being made and MPs are waiting to be gathered in sufficient numbers, to insert enough identification cards to make the vote. In another case, it doesn't seem like it. Without any reason, this is about volunteerism in the application of the Rules of Procedure which is inadmissible, and I therefore consider that Article 27 has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24244	Two minutes, thank you. There's no damage to article 27. Everything that has been done during the procedure for determining decisions of the National Assembly has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The proposal was put to the vote and found no quorum. It's not that the decision wasn't made, it was not that there was a quorum to decide on. Does he want to speak to the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic? No, I don't. ) National MP Ivan Andric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24245	They've been broken. 27, 104, 121 and 122. Article 27 – The President of the National Assembly shall be chaired, shall take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the Assembly. On the other hand, as much as you want to convince us that the decision has been made, it has not been made. Since the proposal concerns exactly this point of the agenda, we cannot continue to work until that decision is made, whatever it is. It can be positive and negative under the proposal, but it is impossible not to bring it, because in that case, MPs do not have the right to propose an extension of time, and it does not say in the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure states that each MP has the right to propose an extension of the time for discussion. On the other hand, to say that this is a technical reason, but the political reason is much more important. We are all aware of what kind of political atmosphere has been tried to push through extremely repressive and anti-European changes and additions to the Information Act. When the public of this country rose, its adoption was prevented. Today we had a session of the Committee, now Article 27, which was to discuss the proposal for an information law, which included amendments at the time when the amendments were not in the Assembly. Yesterday we saw on TV that a phone session of the government was held, so the minister was denied during the evening. So it's article 27, and it's said to have to coordinate the work. She is concerned about the timely and coordinated work of the National Assembly. In a general atmosphere, in which we do not know what amendments to the law, which is the objective of the law, in which, as Cedomir Jovanovic said, you join the debate in a point that goes by an emergency procedure and a point that does not go by emergency procedure, not knowing...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24246	Two minutes. I ask the MPs not to repeat in their arguments that, no matter which members they quote. The essence of your argument that there has been a violation of Article 121 does not stand, nor does Article 27, by the fact that a member is already quoted. With regard to the argument on the vote, and on the proposal of the National MP Aleksandra Jankovic, the proposal was put to the vote, there was no quorum, and it cannot be talked about as a matter of fact or a decision that has not been made, the Assembly continues to work. Article 94, last position, therefore, please do not repeat the reasons for the joint principled debate and the manner in which the act arrived in the Assembly, whether it is under regular or urgent procedure, as this is prohibited by Article 100. National MP Ivan Andric, do you want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24247	I also told you about article 104. So this way of fundamentally changing the Information Law offends the dignity of the National Assembly and each of us in particular. I also say this as a political assessment, but also as a moral. To remind you, we have changed this law of the time of Slobodan Milosevic by forming an independent working group, which had no connection with any parliamentary group in the Assembly, which worked several months on the bill proposal, then there was a public debate and then the law came to the Assembly, so that we today would be forced by the ruling majority to do something that we received at 11.00 today, which essentially changes that law, regardless of whether each of us for or against it was forced without any reason to discuss it tonight. Please, it's a violation of the dignity of each of us. What good is the congregation if we can't talk about something and we can't talk about something because we don't know what these changes are? These changes were, one thing we see on television, it was government, it wasn't government. The other thing we see, we have to call the media editors to see what happened last night with the minister at the meeting, so we can define ourselves. We have less than two working hours for that. This way of changing the fundamental law on democracy in Serbia offends every MP's dignity. The law on public information is a fundamental law on the democracy of a country. You can do anything, of course you 130, whether Jojic is here or not, 131, you can do anything. I'm just saying that our dignity is hurt because this law is changing by force and I ask the National Assembly to declare it in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24248	The National Assembly will declare in the voting day whether the provisions of the information law offend the dignity of MP Ivan Andric. All I can tell you in my explanation is that there is no breach of Article 104 when it comes to the reasoning that you have given along with the statement of injury to Article 104. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24249	Mrs. Komic, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am advertising the violation of Rule 98 of the Rules of Procedure, in which the procedure is very precise and clearly defined, namely the action of the President of the National Assembly in a situation in which the quorum is practically impossible to determine. The president is obliged to suspend the session, hold consultations and then allow parliament to be declared on the subject that could not be sent because of the lack of quorum. The fact that the ruling coalition has not put in cards does not give you the right of Parliament's president or of you as vice president, who is now acting as chairman, to ignore the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bradich, you can't sit there and act like this is none of your business. It's not the minister's function forever, you know that. This is the first time in the history of this country that the law on culture, which you have called system law, is being passed in this way, combined with amendments and additions to the Law of Public Information. What will be more talked about – the mafia tabloids or the culture that this society needs? It's an insult to the meaning of the law you've proposed. Because of your colleagues who represent such a thing, you shouldn't agree to it. You did not propose a law on culture by emergency procedure and this is clearly seen from the reasoning of the law. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information is proposed by an urgent procedure. It's incompatible with each other. How can you combine the debate on "Kurr", which is the party you created, with the debate on the law on culture?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24250	Thank you. People's MP, no harm done to article 98. It is a quorum needed for work, and this is the third time that MPs insist on quoting a member of the Rules of Procedure and on speaking in a statement on a subject that has nothing to do with a quoted member. Please, let's stop doing this. It's also a kind of abuse of the rights of Article 100. National MP Aleksandra Jankovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24251	I must appeal to Article 86, the final position – if the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the existence of a quorum determined by the count of MPs, may request that the quorum be determined by the call of the MPs, which is decided by the National Assembly without a search. I've tabled a proposal to double the time foreseen for the debate. Those MPs, who are now gone again, came in, those from the light coalition, and showed a phenomenon called the presence of the body, and the absence of the spirit. They simply didn't put their MP cards in identification units. I asked for a word, for this is indeed a joke. Do not believe in your eyes, but believe what I say to you. Either the electronic system has failed or it's some serious situation, some personality division, so they don't know exactly when to insert a card or when not. What's the fact is that I have the right to ask that quorum to be determined by calling, and you didn't give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24252	People's MPs, you can't talk about Article 86's injury, the attitude that it's about, because that situation wasn't even there. There were no requests to count the MPs in the O.R. I ask you to stop abuse of the right to receive words and to declare violations of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24253	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the manner in which the merger of the agenda points was carried out, the way in which the debate on laws on culture and on public information offends the dignity of the MPs. It really doesn't make sense that the ruling majority, according to such a matchmaker's strategy, draws cards and then to God there's no quorum. We play democracy. This is a surrogate of democracy, this is an imitation of democracy, and apparently the whole public. He can calculate the opposition, it's her right, but he can't have the ruling coalition playing dead souls. It just doesn't make sense and we're talking about it the moment the topic is the law on culture. This is an anti-subculture, this is a demonstration of one of the perverse cultural models. The law is proposed overnight, in secret, in the middle of the summer when its time is not, with the aim of not discussing it at all. It's a similar situation with the Public Information Act. Mr. Minister, by respecting you as a man who has done a lot at the level of theatre culture, you must not allow yourself to be a tool for manipulation, or your party boss, or anyone else. You have to maintain the integrity of the man who dealt with culture in the right way, not to be collateral damage to Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24254	People's MP, you did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, and the content of the arguments is the repetition of the previous, but heard under the emphasis of the various other members of the Rules of Procedure, so that they cannot even give you an explanation. National MP Nebojsa Rangelovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24255	I thank you for your word and advertise the violation of Rule 117 of this Rules of Procedure. The chairman did not allow the National Assembly to make an adequate statement of the proposal. General rules of procedure applicable in all legal systems have been violated, even in our system. Namely, the statement on the proposal to double the time of the debate on the proposed agenda points was the previous issue. There is no work of any body, nor of the National Assembly, without a solution to the previous question. The National Assembly is not allowed to plead on the previous issue, thus violating both the provisions of both the Rules of Procedure and the general rules of procedure. Anyone who's had their eye on law school and legal science needs to know that. Since there was no quorum for a statement on the previous issue, the chairman was obliged to give a break until the quorum was secured, so that the Assembly would plead the previous issue, and then to approach the debate. The congregation did not declare it, therefore the Rules of Procedure were violated.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24256	The People's Messenger, the explanation you gave, is in line with the arguments given by other MPs. Article 117 to which you are called - the National Assembly decides by voting on Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and this Rules of Procedure. You claim that this member has been violated, that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member I have read. The member concerned is, in fact, Article 94(3), who says - the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, has the right to propose for a longer period of debate for parliamentary groups than the time set out in Article 1(1). The National Assembly shall decide on this proposal without delay, provided that the sittings are attended by at least 126 MPs. Since there were no 126 MPs in the electronic system, the Assembly could not decide, and I ask that we stop applying article 100 and give the right to the word, by making the truths, by bringing the public into error and by repeating the reasoning with the intention of listing any member of the Rules of Procedure, and in fact by speaking about the same subject, it is an infringement of Article 104, and, unfortunately, I will be forced to apply Article 106 in my other positions, which prohibits all MPs from such behaviour. National MP Cedomir Jovanovic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24257	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, has just been informed that a direct transfer of the session of the Serbian Parliament has been suspended. We find it scandalous to discuss amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information without television transmission. In talks with representatives of the ruling coalition so many times, we have faced a clear, resolution position so far, that these democratic assets that have made up the full public work of our Assembly will be respected. We agree that in exceptional circumstances we can work with delayed television transmissions, but to discuss the system law on culture and changes and additions to the Information Law without direct television transmission, with delayed transmission after midnight, I think it is a disrespect to anyone who has considered themselves a responsible politician representing the interests of citizens for at least one second. Themes, agenda points oblige us, Mrs. Komic, to interrupt this session, to continue during tomorrow, through debate until the debate is over, of course, with mutual respect and respect for some extraordinary circumstances. But there's nothing at this point that might suggest amendments to the Information Law and the Law on Culture, for example, the report with the "Tur de France". I urge you to stop this session, keep working tomorrow, and weekends if necessary, but to work in a normal atmosphere. It doesn't make sense, we don't write these laws and we don't discuss them for ourselves, we do it for the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24258	People's MP, except you didn't specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, I must inform you... You are under obligation to quote a member of the Rules of Procedure when you receive a word. That member was not injured either, as notice of the time of direct transfers was given yesterday during the National Assembly session when I chaired Thursday, July 16th, and Friday, July 17th. Therefore, I can argue that both MPs and the National Assembly were informed in general yesterday, and not right now, that direct broadcasts of the National Assembly's television session for July 16th and 17th will take place. I was warned at the time that I didn't say Wednesday, July 15th, and, with an apology, I repeated the notice that was made on the previous day. I ask the MPs to stop earning, to stop abuse of their right to word and to stop using Article 100 and the right to receive the word to speak of injury to the Rules of Procedure for anything other than that, in all their views, a very clear, article 100 prescribes. It's mutual respect and respect. People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24259	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my opinion is that on many occasions in this new democracy we have somehow established a position on what is according to the Rules of Procedure, what is not, what is by law, what is not, who is right, who is not. So, it's always right that whoever has a beating in their hands or has a microphone, or has a button that can turn off a speaker. In order for the chairman not to exclude me now, I will remind her of article 88, and I ask that you, Madam Chairman, read it together or parallel to what I am saying, because you jumped into your mouth to advertise Mr. Jovanovic's Rules of Procedure saying that you said something yesterday. I don't know what you said yesterday, I wasn't there yesterday, but the Rules of Procedure predicted that, so he ordered that you have to say that every day, precisely because we and those who follow the work of the National Assembly would be directed. If you don't think it matters, I think it is, and I don't think it's relevant that two important laws like this, which are on the agenda, be public without being able to follow the session. Now I'm sure you can't tell me that I'm wrong, that you've done the right thing, and if you get out of this situation, as I suspect the chairman will get out of the situation that you've set the agenda, with a point of order that doesn't exist, obviously it's just violence and you can say whatever you want, you can say it's Friday, we have to make an appointment, because there's more of you. Believe me, in the end, it has shown itself, here, for the past ten years, but also throughout history, not just parliamentaryism, but at all, that something like that can't last long and the truth comes out.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24260	Two minutes. No injured Article 88, all notices required for the session of MPs. Please don't abuse the right that article 100 gives us. National MP Vladan Batic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24261	Mrs. Komic, you have violated the provisions of article 27. Please concentrate on what I'm about to say, try to remember, because last time you said I didn't quote which member I'm calling on. I quoted it as a provision of Article 104, and all the MPs heard it except you, and then in your ignoring and Kabadiahic manner, you realized that you didn't even know if the Rules of Procedure had been broken, because you don't know what provision was being called on, those are your words. You further realized that what I was saying, that's already heard, Mrs. Comic. Look at the spelling and the grammar. The law on culture is on the agenda. I was talking about it. And what's not being transmitted just be a reminder. I've been a participant since 9 March. March 9th was because Serbia was an informative gulag, which was a media ghetto, which was a public-word concentration camp. In '99, those protests were for the same reasons. It ended with the murder of Curuvia. These are very ugly omens. Now on national television is the transmission of the Tour de France, someone is obviously more important than the transmission of the National Assembly sessions at the exact moment when the law on culture and public information is discussed. It's a hypocrisis, it's immoral, it's all the opposite of culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24262	People's MP, we can consult a stenogram, I listen very carefully to all the MPs. In cases where I have doubts about whether I have heard correctly, then I ask the MP to which member was called to receive the right to a word. So, I didn't hurt any of the members. If you mind using language or certain verbs or shapes in the time I use, I personally apologize to you, it will never be "heard" with you again, which will be famous. Thank you very much. National MP Dragan Todorovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a violation of Article 114(4), so I don't waste my time. We have already pointed out that this session is irregular and that, when voting on the agenda, the agenda item is included which is not included in the draft agenda, nor has we received material. You've been over it. We asked for a stenogram, a stenogram that you know how to run, every 10 minutes, so 15.45 to 15.55 hours, the chairman at the time, Mrs Slavica Djukić-Dejanovic cited the Bill on Social Insurance, and you know that such a bill was not given in the agenda, that the bill on social housing is clearly an irregularity. That it was immediately in progress, while the chairwoman said before the vote that she had made a lapus, that the secretary who was sitting there was not to be photographed, but was his all the time to follow, to keep an eye on, that the chairman was holding a session according to the papers he had received, and that was the most normal thing. Then what do you need a secretary for? I understand that Slavica was indisposed, that she may have made a mistake, but now it's her personal matter. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must operate according to certain rules. It says here what Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic suggested and what was voted on. Please tell me how you're gonna... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24264	Two minutes. National MP, second time, in violation of Article 100, you claim that a member of the 114 has been injured in this case. You are also witnesses of a session of the National Assembly where the observation of the possible lapus made by the president of the National Assembly has already been made. You are also witnessing participants in a session where the president of the National Assembly, with an apology, told and repeated the law, with awareness that it was a lapus lingu. By demeaning the National Assembly, you demean and insult all of us who want the procedure to take place according to the rules and commit violence against the procedure. I warn you to stop doing this in the name of preserving the reputation of this institution and please don't throw it out of place. We know you're repeating said injury and I'm obliged to give you a warning. Please don't force me to do this, because no chairman wants to do that. National MP Tomislav Nikolic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word from Article 100(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24265	Madam Chairman, at the risk of my freedom to state my opinion, your position, call indiscriminateness, demeaning, I must say that I am truly surprised how far you have gone in the usurpation of the Rules of Procedure, to the extent that you are changing your Rules of Procedure, although there is no proposal from the Administrative Committee, even though the National Assembly has not spoken of it at all. You have just informed us that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you informed the MPs of the day before yesterday, or yesterday, when there will be a transfer today, when there will be a transfer tomorrow. Excuse me, please, in accordance with what rules of procedure? Is that some kind of D.S.P.R.? Is it some Rules of Procedure of the DS and the ruling majority gathered around it, as you, from the ruling majority, call you an ugly DS? When do you, by what member of the Rules of Procedure, have the obligation or the right to inform us when there will be a transfer, when will it not be? Does it replace the transmissions, that your notice that there will be no transmission replacing the public in the work of the National Assembly, so hard to elect and for which we have all fought in this room? What happens now? As anyone comes to power, so wants to abolish the law and freedom, so we will be witnessing here a very nice debate on freedom of information, in which Mr. Chiplic was not allowed to come to defend the law, but sent by someone ignorant, someone who doesn't even know when the convention is passed, someone who doesn't even know how many members there are, someone who, by following the work of his party, can only invent bans and restrictions. Mrs. Komic, I ask you, when is it written in the Rules of Procedure that you are notifying us when there will be a transfer, when will not, amnesty to the ruling majority of the responsibility that the transfer is not available? We're not calling you here because you're playing us videos at night... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24266	Two minutes, thank you. Article 88(2) and I ask you that when you get the word second time on the basis of Article 100, you quote which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured. Does the proposing minister, Nebojsa Bradic, the culture minister, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24267	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, there have been a lot of noise these days about the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Public Information Act, which we are talking about today and a lot of objections from various angles spoken. A number of objections refer to the procedure of the adoption of our legislative proposal itself, namely that, as critics say, the proposal is made at speed and without consultation with media associations, and without broad public debate [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24268	I ask the MPs not to earn, by calling for the respect of members of the 104th and all other rights that belong to us under the Rules of Procedure. I'm really warning you that you can't tolerate the will to break those same rights. Excuse me, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24269	The first part of this finding is correct, because the proposal was made by emergency procedure. When something is done in an emergency procedure, it is logical that it is done within a short period of time, and the argument of the mere duration of time from the moment of being aware of the need for such a legal document, until the moment of its final formation, as an argument of disputing the same, loses its meaning if it has been done and done in terms of urgency. The reasons for this are clear and precise to give in the part of the reasons for the proposed legislative changes and additions, which is said to be – the existing Public Information Act proved ineffective in its application, which required its urgent changes. Information as an activity of general interest in views and publicly expressed opinions of the professional public has been seriously questioned in the scope of objective reporting. In order to prevent the creation of adverse consequences for the life and health of citizens, as well as the adverse consequences for the work of authorities, organisations and other legal entities that are unambiguously reporting and which unambiguous reporting may cause, it is necessary to adopt laws by emergency procedure. I'm talking about a law that will be passed or not passed in this National Assembly. I'm not talking about what the newspapers are writing today, which are talking about, in addition to "Health", that publicity is the one that encourages a fatal step. Here, of course, he thinks of one case that happens in the world, that people, by mimicking Verter's effect, resort to suicides, or using pills. I'm not talking about Michael Jackson here. I'm talking about something that's going on in the country of Serbia. This argument also gives a partial answer to the comments that the proposal has arisen as a result of consultations with media organisations, i.e. without a broad discussion, in a statement in the opinion expressed publicly by the expert public. What do I mean by that? When something of public action such as information is, without any doubt, the attitudes are the fastest, but also those of the narrowest, professional public, who are probed, questioned and considered not only in a limited situation of one or two public debates, but in a long period of time, in numerous meetings and conversations with media intermediaries, but also with users of media services. Therefore, the fact that there has been no formal public debate does not in any way eliminate the fact that the bill contains views, proposals, the pawning of the media members themselves, but also the general public, obtained in a number of other contacts and situations, nor reduces the value of the legal act itself on this basis. As an example of this type, I would like to cite the claim that the Association of Independent Electronic Media, expressed in their statement, is undeniable that the mechanisms of self-regulatory media and news associations have proved to be immature to cope with the daily harsh distortion of professional standards on the media scene, claims or similar to those we heard in the previous period in several different ways, above all, by the representatives of the profession themselves, but also by the general public. Therefore, this document, which has certainly taken into account all that has been said and essentially summed up very broad and very long-term public debates. The multiplier role of the state, and above all by the competent ministry in these situations, requires that the issues that we are dealing with today and which this proposal is being looked at from the position of all actors. Therefore, I would like to ask all of you who are going to talk about these topics, first of all, and only then about the proposal, to discuss with as much responsibility and attention as possible all aspects, how delicate and complex topics, whose proposal is only the consequence of being considered, to take away, to measure, to assess what we are talking about when we talk about such sensitive things as freedom of public words, to consider first and foremost all the meanings of the public concept and effects that they have and can have, and by who they are used and by those in relation to which or for the sake of which they are used. This debate today is only a seemingly and merely a phenomenal debate on one of the phenomenal acts. This is a debate which, in a sense, will be an epilogue of a barrel, which this legal document, not without reason, has raised in the previous days, the epilogue of clashes of different opinions and views, different visions, but let us be honest and interest throughout which everything is projected. Except that I have asked you for the ultimate caution and responsibility of thinking, as we propose, I will also ask you for the ultimate constructiveity and activity in making amendments, proposals, objections, opinions, which this legal document, which, above all, will improve our media scene, the profession itself, and the civilizational values associated with it, to the satisfaction of all of us and the media followers and the general public. It was also the basic meaning of the proposal that lies before you today. Now about the proposal itself a little more concrete, about what it really stands for and what the consequences it wants to cause. As one of the biggest grudges and fears tried in the professional and wider public, it is a fear of asphyxiation of freedom of thought and speech by applying a restrictive criminal policy for acts punishable under the Law on Public Information and other laws that are now in force. It is works that are unacceptable to European standards, to which today's critics, and until yesterday, the offenders of these same norms, behold, are suddenly the most called. How is it even possible in today's conditions, in the 21st century, that in a country that has stepped towards Europe and European values, the legal provisions of today's laws are compared to the laws that have just protected this abuse of words? How is it possible that someone seriously believes that the time of the media gulag is coming to our country? If someone follows the cleverly designed plan of bearers and creators of ugly public words to put everything on their side today, and tomorrow they will again be in a position to make all the sacrifices of the same ugly words. The most important thing for them today is to get through it, to get out of it. In order for them to get too grumble today and to continue to do the same thing tomorrow, and to spit, to be ugly, to violate the right to privacy, to assume innocence, to preserve dignity, to keep the press's attention, today it is important for them to take cover behind the European Convention, beyond its 10th most important point, to call their freedom of speech everything that existing laws call punitive, and ethics inadmissible, and lies, and slander, and the attack on privacy, and the attack on the right to pronounce a murderer, a thief, such as not everything, until the court proves it. Today, in order to win over the opportunity to defend that practice, they need to be served with both right and wrong, by all means. They're doing well today, as they've always done, only by means of such means, so where it comes from. It works for them, what about the others? What's wrong with the rest of them? What about those in the media business who want to serve legitimately and humanly correct means and by building their careers, but also the whole profession and the social environment? What about those who don't agree to kill each other with an ugly word? What about those who don't want to be peeked through their windows and when they don't sing, don't act or do politics, who, even though they're in one part of their lives and ours and ours, in another, would be only their own and their loved ones? What about those who don't want the media to know that murderers, thieves, villains of every kind, and neither they nor the court have a clue about that? What about those who don't want to see in their great pain, when they lose someone of their own, his headless body on the pages of the newspaper neither they nor the nation watch? What about a daughter who wouldn't come from the papers to find out her father raped her? What about the kids who, in that troubled period of adolescence, made a youthful mistake, and not that everyone knows about it, even though children are famous, because other people don't know about the mistakes of children and not that they're not wrong? What about the right of all of us not to become targets or ugly words about ourselves or ugly words about others? What about the right of children to grow up in a verbally ecologically clean environment, not to listen to hate speech, insult, slander? What about their right to provide them with conditions for the preservation of mental health through the media? What about the rights of all of them to their rights, if we, as a state, have already guaranteed them the same rights, which we once guaranteed through existing laws that are in force, do we not confirm that in practice? What about their right, if we as a state will not stand in the way of those who are self-willed and arrogant, if all the murderousness of their malicious words justify even international law? What about the real thing? Can we be accomplices to his mockery, to the mockery, to the situation of words directed at someone who later existed and the victim, in the most literal sense, who paid someone else's word with his own head? These most drastic examples that we don't even talk about, but let's not forget them and sneak around with the idea that it can't happen anymore that some new verbal clip opens the way to a new clip of guns. There are countless violations of these rights, and countless lives have been ruined, with all the understanding of the difficult economic situation in the media sphere, with all the need for the media to overcome the crisis and by making some dinars through sensationalism and tablodiation, there cannot be a measure of things, especially the measure of things supported and established by the state. On the contrary, it is precisely the establishment of basic other moral, ethical, human, professional, legal norms and standards that the state must constantly and in all spheres of commitment. That's why, the cost of costing one humiliation, one debauchery, a guilty verdict before it turns out to be, one shooting at someone, must be so high that that life of which was muddy, blackness, blame, distraction, which was lied about, at least return some of the dignity. It is precisely, as a counterweight of this life, mutilated with heavy words, that this proposal has designed such high compensation for this same mutilation. This protects not only the humiliated and damaged individual, thus protecting the endangered society through the protection of the individual and protecting civilization values. It's been speculated these days, mostly by those users of ugly words, what Europe will say on a proposal like this, or out of ignorance, or for the reasons of throwing those same smoke bombs, which should all be clouded, anything to make them vague, messy and confused, in which only they would manage well. What will Europe say about what? What can Europe say about not allowing one of the fundamental rights contained in point 10 in its Convention on Human Rights to be mocked by being placed in it illegally and unethically? It is as if Europe had hidden everything ugly behind it, as if Europe, by ensuring freedom of speech, had the intention to give anyone the opportunity to use it as an alibi for the use and violation of all other rights. On the contrary, Europe and all the civilized world know exactly how far the right of one goes. It only goes to the non-hazarding of the right of the other. Collating both with the work of the public and with the work of the journalistic profession, which is an apriors against stricter criminal policy and greater media responsibility, would certainly be for legislators of a legal solution, a path with far less resentment, more peace, but unfortunately, it cannot reach the goal of which it is, to one true and true freedom, one that implies and is responsible, because only as such it can exist. The only measure of responsibility is the amount that is the proportional measure of freedom. Everything else is essential freedom, an obligation to be held hostage by the nadal system of values. Putting a sign of equality between increasing the degree of one's responsibility and increasing the degree of elimination of his freedom is essentially incorrect and contrary to reality. And therefore, the Ministry of Culture, as one of the legislators of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information, will not be involved in proving that it is for the freedom of the media, and against censorship and State interference in editorial policy, as you are in some criticism of the proposal trying to present. The drive to protect citizens' rights through legal solutions, which may be threatened by unconscious media policy and behaviour, in the same level as censorship, if not malignancies, is a reflection of the lack of understanding of the essence of the rule of law, as the basic premise of democratic society. The essences that not only remain preserved by the proposal we are discussing today, but by adopting it, from the point of view of increasing the level of responsible behavior, will also be improved. It should also be recalled that in the debate on this proposal, it must in no way be lost out of sight that it does not suspend the specifics but the existing Public Information Act contained in Article 2 which provides for and will, in future, ensure that public information is free and is in the interest of the public, that it is not subject to censorship, that no one should in any indirect way restrict the freedom of public information, especially through the abuse of state or private authority, the abuse of rights, influence or control over the means of printing and distribution of public votes, or over broadcasting and radio frequency devices, as well as any other means of correcting the free movement of ideas, information and opinions, that no one should exert any physical or other pressure on the public voice and its staff, as well as any influence to interfere with the execution of the sending. It remains in force and the decree that violations of freedom of public information are decided by the court by an urgent procedure. Article 8 will continue to guarantee that no provision of this law can be interpreted and applied in a way that would lead to the abolition of any right which this law guarantees or restricts to a greater extent than that prescribed. Finally, with all the respect for the difficult economic opportunities that the media is exposed to, and with all the efforts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Culture will make as part of it, that, in these and such circumstances, they will be helped, we must all, together, fight not to pay the most ethical, human and professional value in these times, in order not to convert the life, human and media scene into ethical and legal chaos, in order not to allow ourselves, with the silent consent of the state, as necessary and desirable, to log and to establish anti-civilisation values. That, if a crime seems necessary, punishment is paid in dinars, not in the currencies of humanity, ethics, professionalism, that what seems more expensive today, in the longer run, is cheaper. The only thing that really doesn't have a price is humanity and everything that comes with it. That's what we're talking about today. This bill cites the protection of all of this and although its legal-formal promoter is the Ministry of Culture, its creators in truth are the ones who, by their disdain and humiliation both man, and professions and ethics, but also by violating existing laws, have produced even imposed the need for it. Having in some law criminal provisions that law breakingers play, trying to defend both society and profession, and media culture and the culture of the media, has already been condemned in advance. When we know that, when the state knows that, as well as those who are obliged to take care of such things, can they, dare they, have the right to allow themselves the ease of the path that is easier to go, the pathways of unhappiness and building a beautiful image of themselves, all at the cost of allowing ugly reality? Do we have first as the Ministry, and so do you, to keep quiet and close our eyes in front of it, because it's so much more comfortable? Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and respected citizens, we all don't have that right together. On the contrary, we have an obligation to weigh everything carefully, to find out everything the true measure, not to be overshadowed by the phenomenal form of things, but to enter into the essence, to look at the rights of all actors, and only then to make a valid decision. Deeply convinced of the best intentions of all of us here, with the belief that we will prove ourselves worthy of this human, ethical and legal task, thank you for your attention. I call upon you to make an active and constructive contribution to its achievement. And we, representatives of the Ministry of Culture, will listen carefully to all your proposals, opinions, views, criticisms and attacks, and all constructively, anything that contributes to improving this proposal itself and the media scene, but also to the living and spiritual environment, install it into this document. So, for all that's good, legal, ethical and civilized, let's make it good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24270	Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, MP Ratko Vlatkovic, chairman of the Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on European Integration, MP Laslo Varga, want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Vesna Marjanović, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Vesna Marjanović. I apologize, MPs, thought that the application of MP Cedomir Jovanovic, as president of the parliamentary group, had the right to receive his word, as he wanted to speak of the Ambassador's injury. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24271	Madam Chairman, Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 93. The Rules of Procedure accurately determines the course of the debate itself, which says: “After the opening of the search of each session agenda of the National Assembly, they have the right to speak according to the next schedule and time period, they have a proposal for an act. ” That's Mr. Bradic. He told us about the Information Act, and he didn't say a word about culture, and we have a united debate on both law and law. (Nobojsa Bradic, from the place: I took a break. I have a lot of understanding for the severity of the debate itself, but you must understand the way we discuss it here. I volunteered to speak as a representative of the parliamentary group, but I cannot use my time twice. Since we have a united discussion, we have to talk about both law and law. So, you have a duty to present to us both one law and another so that we can even after that talk about the Culture Act on amending and supplementing the Information Act. Otherwise, it's impossible as you imagined. If it takes a break, I agree it is because it's extremely hot and we can take a break. Perhaps we should agree on another way to settle it, so that we have time to discuss both one law and another, and then we return to the justification of our request from the beginning of the workday, when we asked for no points of the agenda to be joined like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24272	National MP, there is no formal violation of the Rules of Procedure, or any damage to the members you have shown, nor can I decide on what the proposing representative will say until the moment he offends any MP, harm the Rules of Procedure or do anything against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The content of his exposure, as long as he does not violate any provision, is not something I can interfere with. I understand that you are interested in hearing comments and presentations of both laws. Minister Nebojsa Bradic answered the floor and has his word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24273	I just took a break, it's human. The essence of culture law is its development, because this development is supported by a system, supported and supported systematically. The essence of culture law and the creation of necessary assumptions that favourable conditions for the development of culture from a domain of individual and partial transition to a domain of constant and systemic. These necessary assumptions of cultural development provide precisely the law on culture as a legal framework and a basis for solutions in practice. When all these facts are considered, it almost sounds amazing that on one roof, but a law that is basic in the field of culture, it's been waiting almost 17 years. Seventeen years waiting for culture, waiting for cultural followers, and as many users of cultural product – citizens, because they were certainly damaged. Because a good product can't be created under bad conditions. And if he can, then it's at a high price, paid by both individual and culture. Meanwhile, all issues of crucial importance, both for cultural policy itself and cultural consequences, have so far regulated several different laws and sublegal acts. In some parts of the matter, it was completely legally unregulated, leading to major problems in the practical performance of cultural activities, but also in the plan of legal precision between the relationship and the competence of all cultural entities. The reasons for the adoption of this law are in a changed social situation and change of cultural practice, and besides improving all cultural policy players, one of the basic objectives for the adoption of this law is to clearly define or vice versa the obligations and responsibilities of public administration towards them. And also defining each other's rights in relation to the other and vice versa, making cultural policy itself modern and efficient and appropriate. The law on culture is that binding material, but also a correction that makes this building of interrelationship and the interdependence of cultural actors deployed at different levels of decision-making as stable, as functional as possible. In any event, it must be borne in mind that the law is no driver. He only legally edits the ambience, provides a legal framework for a picture of our cultural everyday life. As such, he insists that the citizen assume most of the responsibility, become the master and his activities in the field of culture, and to some extent the impact of other people's actions on himself, but actions that will have consequences on the entire cultural sphere. Unfortunately, however, we have the indifference of a large number of cultural participants to take their professional fate into their own hands and to engage actively and engaged in its creation, which is as sad and as amazing a fact as it is, that such pro-active and responsible behaviour would provide a greater degree of independence and self-region, and therefore for culture a more positive environment. This basic law on culture, systemically, has, among other things, the function of providing legal conditions to stop the momentum of previous behaviour and to start a change of outdated and dysfunctional habits and patterns of behaviour, although this law on culture itself does not play a role, nor does it have the power to be a driver by providing legal premise itself for a new and different functioning achieves in a large degree and this goal. This law on culture, which is today, strengthens the postament of cultural policy. With its clear and concrete solutions, it exceeds the current functional models and establishes new ones. In its essence, it is a stimulating, modern law, a legal turning point. This law will be the basis for the upgrade of 12 sublegislative acts necessary for its application, and whose adoption is foreseen within three months, a period which is indicated as being between the time of entry into force of the law on culture and the moment of its application. Apart from these sublegal acts, there is still a long series of laws waiting for the adoption of the main new roof law in the field of culture – the Law on Inheritances, Foundations and Funds, the Law on immovable cultural heritage, the Law on Archival Construction and Archival Service, the Law on Museum Heritage and the Law on Old Rare and Library Construction and a mandatory copy of publications. All this is about the importance of both the legal act itself and the importance of its adoption as soon as possible. The importance of this legal act and the speed of its adoption confirms the fact that this single legislative regulation would cover and regulate all areas of cultural activity, as well as the fact that it would systematically address the problems of artists, associates and experts in culture, predicting that conditions and means of obtaining the status of persons self-performing in the field of culture, as well as the provision of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget for payment of contributions to PIO and health insurance in accordance with the law governing contributions to mandatory social security, thus improving the position of all entities in culture. What's the paper in this law? The bill provides for the adoption of a long-term strategy for the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia, as well as plans and programmes relating to the territorial unit's ropes, which are designed for a longer period of time for cultural policy and environment. The formation of a national cultural council, as an expert-in-a-legislative body, in order to provide permanent professional support in determining, protecting, developing and expanding Serbia's cultural policy, is another novelty. When it comes to funding cultural programmes and projects, it comes from the principle of decentralisation, where funds for funding or co-financing of cultural programmes and projects, as well as artistic, professional and scientific research in certain areas of cultural activity are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP, units of local self-government, in accordance with the law. Funding provisions, Art. From 73rd to 77th, funding of cultural institutions, funding and co-financing of projects in culture and co-financing of current expenditures and expenditures shall be arranged. It is significant as a paper to mention that these provisions provide that the director of an institution whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, the AP or the unit of local self-government is appointed on the basis of a previously implemented public competition for a period of four years and may be re-appointed, as well as the obligation of the candidate for director to propose a programme of work and development of the institution as an integral part of the competition documentation. In the overall flood of quasi-values and downsizing of real ones, this law serves as some sort of correction. He favours the expertise, knowledge and ability, suppresses the current momentum of bureaucratic volunteerism, whose basic feature is the multiplication of institutions for support that does not perform its function. It gives cultural institutions a new role and a new task, much more detail than ever before. Regulation of issues of cultural action, as well as issues concerning the institution of culture, their functioning and relations with other cultural institutions or authorities also form a significant part of the bill's proposal. Very often there is talk of decentralisation and demetropolisation, which implies that Belgrade needs to be demetropolised, but also on the other hand, the slow need for other cities in Serbia to change their size and importance with authenticity and quality of cultural offer. With this law, we are just making assumptions that other centres in the entire territory of the Republic are truly metropolised. The situation we will agree on, that the level of cultural needs has been much lower in the rest of Serbia, and thanks to the crisis and alibi it creates, is low mobility for both individuals and institutions. What this law will do is also establish the equality of subjects in culture. Individuals, groups, institutions, public and civil sectors, private institutions of culture. This law creates a significant difference in the use of state budget funds, the state does not finance culture, but invests in culture, and based on this investment in culture, the state has the right to expect both the appropriate value and the results. Thus, the funding provisions of this law precisely regulate the financing of the institution of culture and the co-financing of cultural projects. The legal arrangement of cultural activity creates conditions for a more responsible way of making money available to taxpayers and basic assumptions and mechanisms that will contribute to the development of the social responsibility of all public life participants, as well as the resuscitation of philanthropy, the awakening of civil concern for the future. This, only seemingly contradictory, will lead to the unity of art and money in a level of partnership, and the wealth of the economy will only help and accelerate rich culture. There'll be room for both of them to be rich. The harmonisation of the law on culture with other laws is a very important item and therefore this law has been prepared long, carefully and thoroughly, and based on the insight and comparative research of similar laws in the world. The law has long been considered and a visible and invisible consensus has been established in its adoption. We tried to shape this law in co-operation with the widest professional public, in order to make its adoption and content transparent and public, as much as possible in the face of democracy, and by doing so not only did we respect the principle of transparency, but we allowed the profession to be more dynamic. The law is modern, European and referenced in our frameworks, and comparison with other laws points to its orientation towards common good and human values. As much as there may be objections to the law of culture in particular, it needs to be looked at in general and thought about it, and above all, it is done in its definition and meaning in the word – systemically. This law certainly fulfils its basic mission, creates and accelerates the legal environment and concrete conditions in which everyone will feel secure. Only he is not enough for that, and that is why he is only the first in a series of legal and sublegal acts to come out of him. And in order for that to happen, in order for us all to get together as soon as possible, culture and the consequences of culture, and for citizens and states to get all these legal and sublegal acts, it is necessary to adopt this one, first, roof, basic law on culture. We can say freely – the category 'when Better Times come' is abolished. Better times are created. I invite you all together today and here we begin to create them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24274	Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Vesna Marjanović, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24275	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the People's MPs, the Committee on Culture and Information discussed both of these laws at its session today, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and the Proposal for a Law on Culture, and decided to accept them in principle. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information, which the Government referred to in an urgent procedure, MPs today had the opportunity to learn more about the proposed text. At this point, I would point out the principle and the basic objective set out in the explanation, which is more consistent in applying and introducing greater order and accountability in the media sphere, as well as the argument that practice has shown that it is necessary to identify more precisely who is responsible for the work and business of public votes. In this home in the work of the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as in the work of other committees and in the general public, there have often been talk of our media scene and images, examples of discrimination on many grounds, human rights abuses, definition of guilt before their guilt was proven. I would say that freedom and independence of the media are absolutely a sacred place and pillar of every democratic society, but it must clearly include responsibility for the spoken and published word. Today, as MPs, members of the Committee, we have asked Minister Bradic and the promoter's representative that this law is not contrary to European standards, that it is not an indirect way of suffocating the media, that it will not discriminate against them, but that it should represent general protection for everyone, not just for elected citizens, whose rights, privacy and dignity are threatened by some media text, contribution or image. So the Committee supported the law in principle. Whether all individual solutions are the best will show the debate that will follow, as well as the fact that the government has already respected a good number of complaints that have been sent mainly by media and news associations. The Committee will also have the opportunity to declare these amendments, as well as any other amendments to be submitted to this draft law. As far as the proposal for a law on culture is concerned, I would like to point out at the beginning of the next fact, which is also known, our committee has organised two public discussions or public hearings on this proposal. I personally consider them successful. I would like to say, although unfortunately time often does not allow us to always search the laws in this way, I simply want to emphasise the value of such a way of working on the board, not just for better informing MPs about certain issues, but for achieving quality legal solutions. We listened to the views and views of the directors of cultural institutions, art associations, NGOs, our prominent artists and cultural workers on the intended solutions and their effects on the place and role of culture in Serbia. We wanted to respect the opinion of the cultural public. I hope and believe that the government will accept a good part of those constructive and significant objections. In these discussions, it was clear that a whole area, and it was very important, such as culture, had waited too long to obtain its roof or system law. I think it's a good thing that this convocation of ours is an opportunity to vote him out. It opens up space for the Assembly to consider a whole series of other laws soon, the minister has already said something about it. He was already talking about the details of this law. In the end, I'd just like to point out the following. We know that culture is expensive, but cultural lagging is incomparably more expensive. This law cannot generally solve this problem, but it should be a significant step towards our cultural development and progress. The principles of democracy, and today the principles of sustainable development, are most closely linked to cultural values and cultural offer. One of the principles mentioned here, which is that culture is both traditional and modern, must be made available to citizens, is particularly important. Also, the market and culture relationship is particularly sensitive. Nor can culture in general rely on and develop on the country's budget, nor can it be fully left to the market verse. A culture run as purely commercial would lead to its disappearance. Finally, I'd say next, about these laws, we're going to have an exhaustive debate these days, and I hope that by the time we vote, we can define the best solutions. However, what awaits us afterwards is to pay particular attention to stable sources of cultural financing, stimulating tax, customs and credit policy, therefore, to finding support for our culture and in those laws that are not in the strict jurisdiction of the Ministry and the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24276	The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure and gets word on the basis of article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24277	I believe that, Mrs. Komic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because the previous speaker has at least twice hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. First of all, we heard a story about some law-abiding. I would really ask you not to use the terms that do not exist in the Rules of Procedure as events that a committee has done to allow the public to know what the provisions of a law are. So there was no listening. There could be some kind of public discussion past the National Assembly building. Here I also resent you, Mrs. Komic, which has become a haven even for the presentation of some wine. It's just that it's slowly breaking down the integrity of this building and its reputation and purpose. The second injury was when a previous speaker as a committee reporter said the law was accepted in principle on the board. It would be fine if the government hadn't delivered the amendments to its bill. You can't for the law the government gives amendments to to say that it's accepted in principle. The basic text of the law is the text that the Government originally provided and the amendments submitted by the Government. The Government's amendments are the text of the law. They cannot be grouped with amendments delivered by MPs. The committee did not consider the law at all in principle, since it had no opportunity to know that the government would submit amendments to the bill. You can talk about the original text that no longer exists. In order for you to have a proposal from the Government now, you must really put a lot of effort into putting the Government's amendments into the proposal and get a crystal clear text on which the Government was obliged to give it to us, with a review of the provisions that are changing and that it is quite clear (President: Two minutes). ) which a new provision is in force and which a new provision does not apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24278	People's MP, there's no breach of Article 104, and especially in the explanation that you've submitted. If Parliament MP Vesna Marjanovic has deceived the Assembly that the Committee voted on the law in principle, at a time when it says so, I cannot know. I can't say he's a injured member of 104. I find it hard to believe that any of us would make such a lie. The law in principle is the law in principle. The amendments are amendments and all applicants of the amendments are equal. Whether the amendments will be adopted or not, I think we will have very interesting and life debates about all the laws, not just the laws on culture and information. So there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure in addressing Vesna Marjanovic's MP as rapporteur for the Committee on Culture and Information. Do the MPs Momir Markovic, Sladjan Mijaljević and Radica Jocic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration when considering the Proposal for a Law on Culture, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, and the People's Messenger Sladjan Mijaljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on European Integration, I have singled out my opinion in relation to this law, because I don't think this law can clear in a fraction the cloudy water that has been laid down in this area for years. This law does not solve anything. On the contrary, this law will bring more indiscretions in this area. This law will not solve the basic problems found in culture, which have been inhabiting for many years, more specifically than the "buldozer" revolution, and in part before that. I believe that culture in Serbia has become one part of a gray zone, which is normally ruled by Serbia, and that an octopus called the Mafia has many arms, so you remember that there is both traffic, and garbage, and car, etc. Mafia. One branch of the mafia is in the area of culture, and there is no letter in this law that the culture minister will deal with this problem. This does not apply to those cultural workers who spend the entire working century on the boards of the theatre and retire with miserable incomes, with miserable pensions, with unresolved status, with unresolved existence, because they are also victims of the very hydrat who threw her leg into culture. Prior to this minister and before that minister before this minister was Minister Koadinovic and then I raised on the Committee on Culture a question of an incredible robbery that was in progress in Serbia at the time. It is a robbery at the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, today's Museum of History of Serbia. I had almost complete documentation on me, even lists, where it's beautifully written, box number 46, etc. under a certain code, in which the plaque was given to Tito, weighing 750 grams of gold, so many precious stones and boxes empty, and the plaques are gone. Each second, third or fourth box was empty. Just to remind you that this particular mob that was there that no one has ever tried to get on the tail before, day-to-day hara in that part. Osiris, who Tito got somewhere when he traveled around the world, which has zero value, therefore invaluable value, and according to such exhibits, in museums that hold to themselves and to the dignity of a nation to which they belong, Osiris, who is located in the Museum of History of Serbia, 2002 or 2003, is, don't hold me by the word, a dental drill in order to see if he is complete of gold. You're not lucky. It's the bronze that's golded and that's how Osiris survived. I don't know how many copies of these exhibits are in the world, but I do know that one of the damaged ones is here with us. A year and a few days ago, he sat in the Museum of History of Yugoslavia and worked as an exceptional forger of works. He falsified all the works that were at the Museum of History of Yugoslavia, that is, now the Museum of History of Serbia, and the question is whether those images that are now there were forgeries, and the originals were heading west somewhere or there are still some originals that kept it. When a man wanted to open up in a moment, his conscience must have pushed him, his soul, and in a newspaper he said it was done, he died in the presence of power. He had a heart attack, and to treat him, he put a bag on his head. I'm not going to say the name of that man, since he's dead, I assume you can all determine. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the Museum of Art, which has been renovated at least twice, here I now think that the renovation has been completed...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24280	Five minutes. The word has been delivered by MP Sladjan Mijaljevic, who issued an opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24281	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, here I am going to listen to the chairman, and for the purpose of lively debates, I will contribute mine as well. The introduction of the promoters for the laws on information and culture was indeed dramatic, although in one part I didn't understand it very well when he spoke of a concept that he said "kids", because in some parts of Serbia, the term "clins" was used for a certain kind of nails, and by increased deduction, I had to conclude that he wanted to say that it was children and youth. I have singled out my opinion that I would also support amendments in this way that need to be corrected by this bill. The proposed law on culture, as well as many laws proposed by this coalition or coalition culmination, is a list of good wishes. This law, the many others, will be much better and more enforceable, of course as much as possible, if you accept a number of amendments submitted by the opposition, or the SRS. So that we don't get into a situation, through what's been happening to us in the last nine years that the locusts have eaten, that every two or three years, the law has experienced a new revision or that it has to be passed from the first to the last member. Of course, this law will also be difficult to implement because in practice many of those who have created this cultural environment in Serbia in the past decade should implement it. Culture is one of the broadest segments of human life, the most liberal, the freest, and precisely in culture many educated, and others, many understood, and some misunderstood, do some of their experiments without much thinking about what effect it will cause in the consumer. In Serbia's culture, some really strange new cultural matrixes appeared. The TV program is only educational for future singers, shamans, different fairy-tales, criminals, hit men. Every day on the TV screen they spit out liters of blood, which is kind of dramatic, which is in the information program. It's really unnecessary to talk about children's programs, just look at cartoons on individual channels, and you'll understand. Every psychedelic event is declared an artistic creation. The Ministry of Culture is funding some sites that propagate a terrible degradation of personality, extreme and terrible immorality. Cultural genocide is being conducted on Serbian residents. It is legitimate to ask the question of who will implement the law on culture, which and any culture. One is what the laws say, and the other is who enforces the laws and whether someone who conducts certain cultural experiments even respects the laws of culture. It is necessary, in addition to the law, to create a more normal environment, which is that with a certain degree of criticism we accept certain experiments that are under culture. In the end, I agree with the Minister on all the negatives he spoke about in the proposals in the opening section and on the laws on information and culture, only I believe that responsibility for most of these negative reasons, which the minister has counted, is borne by a political group which the minister also belongs to, which we have eaten for the past nine years. I can see that there's a certain amount of cohesion and difficulty in law enforcement. I wish you every happiness in further work, although I think you will need more and more happiness, and the knowledge and skills you have acquired in the previous period, because it is very difficult in this situation to implement what you have stated in the Proposal for a Law on Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24282	Does Radica Jocic, who expressed her opinion at the session of the Committee on European Integration, want to speak? No, I don't. ) Does the National MP Svetlana Stojanović, who issued an opinion at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, want to speak when considering the Proposal for a Law on Culture? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24283	My basic motive for having issued an opinion on the Committee on Culture and Information, not only against the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Information and the Law on Culture, is that two points of the agenda, amendments and additions to the most shameful law on information in the history of Serbian Parliamentarianism and a very significant law on culture, allegedly systemic, fundamental, roof-based, from which other laws should be made. These two laws are incompatible. The possibilities of MPs to discuss them have been reduced almost to a pointless number of minutes, and I will try to use these five minutes that belong to someone who has an opinion to say something. The law on culture, which we've waited so long for, which has survived countless versions, we don't even know at this point what version we're actually discussing, what the government in the phone session has adopted or has not adopted, in general, not just in certain members, is not fulfilling its purpose. In addition to the declaration, the members of the Cultural Law are not delimited actions of public and general interest, those that should be protected if we do not want this people's culture to be completely suppressed, and we as a people lose our past. If it had been done, the law would have defined not only actions, but also institutions that are holders of these activities and they should have concrete and precise legal protection and decent budget financing. As it is, the bill on culture is not the basis on which specific laws on theatre, film, cultural monuments, etc. could be based. He's almost empty, declarative, except for the members in which he's damaged. In his speech, the minister stated that there is a newspaper in this law that will be a framework for solutions in practice. This public hearing we had in the small hall of the Assembly, which brought together the directors or secretaries of all the most significant institutions of culture, showed exactly how far this law cannot be a solution to their specific problems and is not a solution to their specific problems. Their remarks were very critical and their conclusion was that the changes proposed were not cosmetic, that they were actually essential. This bill of culture does not touch the issue of privatisation at all. The law should distinguish what the state, in order to ensure the general and public interest of its citizens, accepts responsibility and funding on itself. Activities and institutions which under no circumstances can be privatised or left to the free market. The second category would include actions and institutions that deserve significant support from both the state and the financial and their labour control, but which are allowed to partially lower the market, allow them to earn some of their plans and objectives. The third category is the activities and institutions that should be completely left to the free competition. They belong to this category, so-called. cultural industry. These countries can help through projects that are now very modern and very European, for which they are estimated to be of public and general interest, but in any other respect, the cultural industry opens up favourable working conditions, and then is left to make choices for its survival and success. None of it's in the Culture Act. It doesn't matter to the government which, one or another, is allowed to declare cultural institutions of national importance by its act. The bill leaves the possibility for a government to think that the National Theatre, the National Museum, or the New Sad Serbian Matica, will delete from the list of cultural institutions of national importance, and that another, more recent, even private, declare the institution of national importance. (President: five minutes. ) The bill does not distinguish between the institutions of which the founder of the Republic of Serbia and the institution is of national importance.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24284	Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word? Applications are made by MPs Vladan Batic, MP Cedomir Jovanovic and MP Zoran Shami. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, first of all, I want to say that I will only talk about the Public Information Act, because I don't have enough time. On behalf of the DHSS, I want to say that we are about to arrange the media area, we are about to prevent the publication of scandalous content, to punish more rigorously those who are destroying someone's privacy, who are destroying people's fates, who are intruding into one's families, who are publishing working bestial content, but we are not for shutting down the media, we are not for the Hamurabian and Ducadjinian methods and punishments when it comes to the media. Mr. Minister, in all respects, in the opening statement of the public information law, you have left out the content, in fact, of what is the reason for the law. When I listen to you, it's like Edward Cardellj was resurrected. Unbelievable. You took over the role of the media prosecutor, Media Barry. You're announcing punishment, you're not talking about what the essence of the law is, but what is the idea of retribution to those who, lately, have put your party boss on the table. I've expressed my respect for your professional range, but, Mr. Minister, you've failed to meet the position you're in today. Culture institutions in Serbia have fallen to low branches. And the National Museum, and the National Theatre, and the National Library, and the Philharmonic, and the Tanjug, all is sadly on very low branches. Now you have gone one step further, you have allowed yourself to be the striking poet of Mladjan Dinkic, to be such a beating by Mladjan Dinkic, as it is clear that behind this fast-tracked proposal for public information is the institution called Mladjan Dinkic. Many of us in this room, and at a time when we were government and when we were opposition, we experienced a lot of things, all kinds of hacks and haranga by certain media, a real hot rabbit by certain media, but we didn't ask to shut down the media. Your party chief didn't raise his voice when the same media satanicized Zoran Djindjic. On the contrary, with their help and he contributed to that Satanization, along with the infamous and criminal agency "FIA", Lord Armstrong and Jessica de Gracia, we all remember that well. He also flirted with them, supplying them with information, participating in the destruction of Zoran Zivkovic's government. Everybody knows that. Then the tabloids, then the yellow press, then the media and then their scenic contents, then the worst of some topics, didn't bother. We know how it ended. By killing Zoran Djindjic, because the greatest criminal, the traitor, as some media have written -- it is not a sin to kill. The one who heads public service today then said that if Djindjic survives, Serbia will not. That didn't bother your party boss at the time, and now that she played the bear at his door, now faster and better, in the weather, the public information law, no public debate, and today's session without television transmission. There'll be cricket tomorrow. There'll be hockey on the grass the day after tomorrow. All of this will be more important than the transfer of the National Assembly, especially when the public information law is on the agenda. It's an anti-sub public information. It's a negation of the topic we're discussing here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24286	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. I'm just asking you to register. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24287	Mrs. Komic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Bradic, I think this debate is taking place in the right atmosphere, without television transmission, with you as a representative of the Government who speaks such a language that we needed a translator in the benches, with you as a representative of a policy that assumes changes and additions to the Law on Public Information. I don't think in culture or in public information we have the right to have relations with each other with the position of government or opposition. Neither I nor the LDP parliamentary group will do so today. But we'll try to be an alternative. I think we need an alternative at this point and that each of us has a right to do that. We won't get anywhere if we prove who was more hurt by the media that you described in your address to parliament, but I think we need a more culture. The fact is that we crushed culture twenty years ago, in each form, and it's wider than ten acts that are defined by your law, it opened up the possibility of a life in which power is assumed by the same. Much more attention to culture, so a different and more cultural Serbia, a more serious society and clear criteria, will also result in such media. I don't think you enjoy yourself having to defend the law on culture in one rude way, because for 17 years Serbia has not been waiting for the system law on culture, so that it can be combined with such poor changes and additions to the Law on Public Information. Then all of this was promoted in this atmosphere, with the cameras off, or worse, in the afternoon on state television. I don't think we have a chance and that, in competition with special programs after midnight, no one's going to watch what we're talking about right now. And they're the result of the banalization of culture. Mr. Bradich, let's say first what's good in your law. The fact that you're trying to enter into the law something that is supposed to be depoliticization and departisation of culture, and therefore every segment of our lives. The problem is it won't be possible, Mr. Bradic, because one such wish must follow a whole series of other laws, changes and additions. A different law on local self-government is needed. We have received your support and your parties in the City Assembly, and the public competition is as a category mentioned in the Statute, but it is inconclusive in real life, because this change does not follow the changes in all the laws that must be changed to make such a thing possible. So one good idea will remain unrealized, and when good ideas don't come true, then space opens up for those who promote bad ideas, building their argument on the fact that good ideas don't work. Council for Culture, we need it. Undisputed that we need him. But this advice on culture speaks, on the one hand, of the consciousness that existed, pointing to the importance of forming a council on culture, but on the other hand, of this different Serbia that abused culture, abuses it today and shows ambitions that it is abuse in the future. There's a lot of rights to cultural advice, Mr. Braddick. It is designed in such a way that members of the council are antagonist, and the cause and consequences of the problem in which our society is present is even. It is not disputed that the cultural failure of our society and the fact that cultural representatives, artists, were very far from the place of decision. What are we going to get now when we open up on the one hand the opportunity for artists to participate in the work of the council, and on the other hand we face them with those who took away their ability to create this cultural environment that they want and who now need to create by taking over some kind of steering function through this council? We need advice for culture, but not in this way. Of course we need representatives of the University of Culture Council, but why not representatives of Belgrade universities, the University of Art and the University of Belgrade and those universities founded by the province, why not a representative of the University of Kragujeva, why not a representative of the University of Nisko? Why don't we leave the possibility of what's supposed to happen in our society in our society, which is to affirm knowledge through the formation of some really respectable, private educational institutions? We think that in a different way it should be arranged. It's a rectorial conference that needs to delegate its representatives to the cultural council, and we said how many, five, as many as there are universities. We have a problem with the position of religious communities, and that's the problem point at which we constantly crash into the so-called so-called community. traditional values in our society. Tradition must not be misused. The abuse of traditional values is, in fact, their undosed use and use resulting from the lack of modern ones. We have no objection to the involvement and consultation of representatives of religious communities in specific situations, but we do not think they belong to the Council for Culture, because this council should be an effective body, and it is not. Look how paradoxical we are, how cruel we are to culture, and it is much more dispersive than, say, businesses. We have opened up the possibility of amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce to form as many chambers of commerce as there is interest in something like that, of course, with some criteria being met. We have seven representatives of artists here, and we have previously defined 10 cultural activities, three will be left without a representative, and we have two representatives of representative unions. And I guess our interest in our culture is that what happened in all the cultures that today fulfill their function in society, which are significant, and in the way that we want it to be ours. I don't think we should be so harsh about the need for further profiling, protecting the rights of our artists, and that, through the fact that two reference unions are presupposed, one job that has not been done in a quality way so far, for which they are responsible, among other things, those trade unions. We have a problem with cultural advice structure. It's the second issue of strategy. Nothing is disputed by the government's right to define the strategy, but we do not think that cultural policy in Serbia should be government policy. If at the end of it has to be, let it be, but let it be the policy of the ruling majority. Come to Parliament with your culture strategy, to talk about it here, because when we go to the theater, we would like to meet something more than a party culture that dominates our lives today even when we don't want to, because there's no other way to function. The strategy for culture must be adopted in parliament in order to become understandable to our society. We won't get anywhere with the promotion of culture in Serbia if it's just your job. You are responsible for your personal culture, because it remains after all, and that is above all, but if we are talking about the system, then the system cannot be relied on only by power, it must also get its confirmation through the authorities' willingness to listen to representatives, people who think differently and vote, and we are responsible for the fact that we will be able to understand such an opportunity or we will try to abuse it. This is the strategy, however good it is, it's chromium, because it's too limited. It's the government's strategy. There's no reason for such a thing. We have proposed seven amendments to the cultural law. I don't think any of them are scrawny, and I hope there'll be an understanding for him. One amendment speaks of the number of university representatives in the cultural council. We suggest that there be five instead of four of them, as it is right now, and that they be determined by a rectorial conference. We suggest that we respect the fact that we have remained in debt to the people who devoted their lives to art, and then at one point we become victims of the most rude and uncultural policies and societies in Europe in the late 20th or early 21st century. We suggest that everyone be admitted to a permanent working relationship with 20 or 17 years of art. I'm talking about theater, not by the rule or in some special situations, but to get everybody in. First, 20 years of living and working in culture is so special that it deserves that respect. Secondly, we need the foundations of our culture. A million people have left this country. Our life is so much easier and faster to affirm artists in the world than in Serbia. Those who stay here and do their job successfully for 20 years, we think they should be admitted to a permanent working relationship and thus situationed, secured. We'd like to define audiovisual activity a little more precisely, that there are some criteria. I think it's possible. That's what we suggested with our amendment. What's also a problem is the number of cultural council members. There's too many of them. If they need to work and be efficient in their work, and this is seen from the description of their work, then that body must be more compact. Why the seven representatives of the government? We suggested three. We have also suggested that representatives of religious communities consult in some specific, concrete cases, even by law, to define situations in which their opinion must be respected, but not to push these people where they do not belong, because through their non-compliance with these functions only the religious community is compromised. We think that's how we help them. If they're not aware of the fact that they're wrong, we're obliged to tell them. It's an LDP obligation. We have tabled an amendment asking the government to propose a strategy to parliament, as others suggest. If the Department of Defense can do it, I think it's time to discuss the strategies of the Ministry of Culture here. It's just, that's the way the country's gonna change. As far as the information law is concerned, i.e. His changes and additions, Mr. Bradic, have you failed to tell us what is most important – whether you have the support of your ruling coalition or not? That's very important. If the government adopts amendments and amendments to the law, and then the parties that make up the ruling majority interpret the law itself differently and explain that they are not ready to support it, that means that the ruling majority is not unique. Does she have to be, by the book? It doesn't have to, but if we're talking about the information law, then we think it's very important in what way our government is going to put against the serious problems that exist in our society. They're wrong to criticize you by comparing you to the radical law of 98. I'll tell you why; not because of sanctions, they're both drastic and now, but because of motive. That's when the media was sanctioned for every truth they published. Journalists were tried before the Court of Violations. It was a dragonic attempt by a failed system to force a lie into value, and to destroy the truth, and they failed. Do you know where the problem is with your amendments and the additions to the law? Because you ignore reality and you refuse to publicly say what I believe you know very well, that the source of lies, with which the government is now miscalculating, is actually the policy and system that has its foothold in today's government. Not only through plotting and intrigues, in which today's victims participated by making us victims, which doesn't give us the right to criticise when they go along with us today through what we've been alone for years, but it's our common problem in the fact that we can't answer the question of what those media and those associations whose opinions we care about and whose suggestions we respect. How did the solution become the creator of public opinion in Serbia? Why is one "Kurr" more important than one "Politice", RTS, "News"? Mr. Bradic, you are the Minister of Culture and Circumstance, because the Ministry of Information has been suspended, you are performing the tasks for which the Minister of Information has been responsible. What does the RTS Management Board look like to you? Who's the director of RTS today? What procedure was he elected to this function? Who are the representatives of the state in the Management Board of Politics, the Management Board of News? Can we agree with that rule established by today's government and the ruling majority, whose representative you are here in the Assembly, that the state is equal to power. Is there any intellectual on the board of directors of those media in which the state has its own capital and right to participate in the creation of an editorial policy, which has not previously become a party? No, I don't. That's why the media is so anemic, incompetent and powerless. Those who influence the needs of a society that is deformed by power's incompetence so pervasive. Why has it become a more significant lie for us to write "Kurir", "Pres", "Justice", "Thunder", not to list all these media that really are the foundation of our society, why has this become more important than the truth? Just because we don't have the right to the truth, the truth is lost. It's not in RTS, it's not in "Politica", "News". Sometimes there is a need for it, but the fact is that there is not as much as it should be not talking about journalists as people who deny that truth to us, but about the policy that takes us away from it, and that is the similarity between 2009 and 1998. That's our common problem. There are laws in this country that could be dealt very effectively with by those who threaten the lives of our children, with those who threaten our families, with those who do not respect the sacrifice, with those who lie to our people, but the state did not do so, because it was appropriate to her and therefore not journalists the source of all this, but a failed policy that survives. When we deny society the right to the truth about Kosovo, and the right to the truth about what is bad between us and what left the chaos of the 1990s, it is natural for women who are human rights fighters to be targeted on Serbia's wallpapers, and the glorified Serb generals who tied their children with wire and killed. What the generals were doing, and what women were doing, should be spoken of by your government, Mr. Bradic, who should not have kept quiet about the fact that the three women ended up on posters of a clerofastic organization because they were called the MUP, not me, and that the others were unprotected. When they can talk about "Obraza", "Stroja", "Ours", that's what goes with the pipeline from Russia, I guess, why can't they write "Kurir" and "Pres" about it? If one day they lynch Natasha Kandic, Sonja Biserko, or Sonja Licht or Nenada Chanka, they will lynch Dinkic tomorrow. Who has an interest in all this? Again, the dark Serbia, which must be satisfied when the cultural council is being made, the one Serbia is silent when Karadzic is arrested, so the only thing we hear is that no one knows who arrested him, the one Serbia who celebrates when a bomb breaks in Bujanovac, Presevo or Medvedji, because then I guess it gives it a right for everyone to a different policy (President: 20 minutes). ) and deny the values on which Serbia must rest. We will not vote in favour of this public information law because we are obliged to respect the public interest, not to act in accordance with our own personal interests, although it would be appropriate for us to meet and charge much more fines in courts. We're not going to the courts for that money. We're going to the courts because we don't want to surrender without a fight. Public interest obliges us to think about decent media and not to allow others not to abuse our problems and to rely on the rights we give ourselves to bring order to Serbia so that they can continue with chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24288	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Shami. I am informing the National Assembly that MP Zoran Shami will use a pay phone to address the MPs for technical reasons. Seven parliamentary units in two rows, first and second, in the field where DSS MPs sit, are invalid. The MP doesn't want to speak from someone else's place, and that's why he has the right to speak at the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24289	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for this explanation. So, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, Mr. Minister, I will only talk about the information law. My colleague, Mrs Stojanovic, will talk later in group time about the law on culture. Allow at the beginning of two dyspressions. Who knows which time I have the pleasure of speaking without television. In this context, I don't know how Mr. Jovanovic doesn't understand that RTS doesn't care about information at all, so he's not interested in the information law according to that. There is now Tur de France, after a very important Sevojno-Kaunas game, and then also a very important game of miner Velenje – Red Star, and probably some very important and important contribution from fishing, which is also shown in the term of the Assembly. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the scene: The wedding also. Maybe "Marriage," yeah, I agree. These are far more important things than the Serbian Parliament. After all, the old Romans came up with a maximum of bread and games, so when the government can't provide the people with bread, they can at least play games. Second, one note. Mr. Minister spoke for 22 minutes and 40 seconds about the information law and 13 minutes and 20 seconds about the law on culture, so with the right of the system law. I'm making the conclusion that the information law is double systematic. By the way, since the law has eight members, it means two minutes and 48 seconds per member, so tell Mrs. Malovic when she presents the Criminal Code, which has about 700 members, that according to this standard she should speak 19,960 minutes or about 33 hours. But let's get to the point now. I must admit that when I first saw the proposal for the information law, I couldn't believe my eyes. I'm pretty old, but believe me, I didn't think anything could shock me in politics, but this time I was completely shocked. So I'm going to start this exhibit with one proverb and one historical fact. The proverb is ours and says – it does not snow to cover the hill, but to show each beast its mark. I'll explain later why this proverb is a place to discuss this law. A historical reminder, he was referred to here, in October 98th, the regime of Slobodan Milosevic passed an information law, under which media verdicts were made after a brief procedure. At the time, they say that some 2.5 million German marks, then, were charged with fines. Of course, a lot of media has been closed throughout Serbia. The result was also attacks on journalists, killing journalists, because such an climate was being made, and after two years, the regime went where it went. In this context, I fully understand the current composition of the SPS, whose ministers were abstentions in the government when the bill was passed, because they certainly learned to learn from their own mistakes. What I don't understand is that some others don't use the opportunity to learn from other people's mistakes, but, unfortunately, by country, they'll learn from their mistakes. About half past three today, I've received amendments from the government. It's nothing weird. Of course, the government has the right and the possibility, and the need to fix a member in the law, realizes that something better can be written, etc., that I understand. What is indicative is that in the law of eight members, of which the eighth is when it comes into force, the government has submitted six amendments. I guess it was more logical for him to withdraw the law and propose a new law, and, along the way, to conduct some necessary talks, serious talks and with MPs in this assembly, and with journalists' associations and with all those who, by nature, are interested in this law. I must say immediately that among these amendments, this first amendment is identical to the amendment that the DSS has otherwise submitted, and you will have the opportunity to verify these words of mine. On the other hand, the second amendment proposes that, among other things, the Court of Justice will, within 12 hours of the submission of the proposal by the Public Prosecutor, tell the founder of the temporary suspension of the exercise of the public ballot until the judicial end of the procedure laid down in Article 5. Legally, it could be in three years. I don't know how this agrees with the theory of law, but you're obviously punishing someone before he was convicted, after only the prosecutor filed a motion to initiate the procedure. In other words, we have progress against the 98 law, because that law has given us 24 hours, and now it's 12 hours. That's an obvious breakthrough. So that someone doesn't get me wrong, I certainly have a lot of right to say that because for years, more, almost two decades, I've been at war with unprofessional media. I'm advocating the professionalism of the media. I certainly don't support it – lying, spitting, debauchery, fiction, and I'm absolutely up for it to be rooted out, but not like this. There are many ways to eradicate it. First, one part is already sanctioned, not just for the media, but for the individuals, because when I insult a colleague, he can sue me. A few years ago, I sued a tabloid and got a conviction in court, it's not disputed, it's a satisfactory verdict. So, sanctions exist, maybe they need to be sharpened, I'm not sure they need to be sharpened 50 times, because 50 times, gentlemen, that's 5,000 percent. Furthermore, more importantly, the state should finally start, along with the Czech, therefore journalists' associations, to begin to educate journalists in terms of their professionalisation. They can also impose sanctions in that area. There's something that both of our press associations have accepted, it's the Reporting Code. It can simply be prescribed – that whoever repeatedly breaks that code cannot deal with this work, like the one who designs bridges, so the bridge collapses, they will probably never design the bridge. A journalist who doesn't respect elementary norms can't do the job and the work is done. Of course, things look much worse when you see the reason why this law is proposed. Some important comrade minister is offended. Some important tycoon doesn't like an insider. I'm not sure that this kind of passageway to the D.A.'s office will have some humble man who's also been slandered by the newspaper, I'm not sure. In any case, this law and this law represents the problem of solving the cold, when it leaks out of your nose, solving the problems of running out of your nose, cutting off your nose. No doubt the leak will stop, but that's not the solution. What's the point? I don't think the primary goal is to choke the media. Of course, under this law, some media will be abolished, for some it may not even be a shame, I may say, but what's much more dangerous, it's an unhindered threat in this law: if you're not good, if you're not obedient, we can also come up with some new law for you. Finally, I must say, contrary to all the stories, for the most responsible for this law I consider DS and address it at this time. Gentlemen of the DS, I told you at the beginning, you leave very bad traces in the snow. I told you what was called the regime that passed the previous law. You risk, instead of the current government, talking in the future about a non-democratic regime, a non-democratic regime of evil intentions, dangerous to the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24290	The word is from Mr. Sasa Milenic, authorised representative of the political party G17 Plus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister and the representatives of the Ministry, I am talking about the laws on the agenda on behalf of my party Together for the Forest and on behalf of the Party of the coalition partner G17 plus, to inform you that in the voting day we will be integrated, as a parliamentary group of G17 plus, support these laws, but not only with that intention, but to try to convince you to do the same, and more than that, to try to present your principles of belief that you should do the same. They are very inadequate those assessments that were made in remarks, public debates and here they could hear, which referred to the semi-private character of the public information bill, about how it expresses the partial interests of a group, one party, one government, even one man. If because of the volume and number of those who have created such an impression it seems so, it is important to note that the issue of universality is not quantitative, but a qualitative question, that it depends on the logical structure of the arguments, on the notional and valuable capacity of the attitude that is represented, not on the number of its promoters or on their volume. It is precisely the purpose of this exhibition to point to the universal character and values that the laws in question constitute. First of all, they form a unique, common, axiological, valuable horizon. The values that determine the will of the legislator, expressed as a reformal determination in these laws, concern in fact the desire to build and advance an open society in Serbia, linked to an international environment on a common-value platform, to affirm the legality and accountability of the free, creative, open-minded individuality of individuals. More specifically, the improvement of the civil society is a common value objective and a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Public Information and Systemic Roof Law on Culture. They normably profile the need for the presence of the ideals of the civil public in Serbia today. Civil society, namely, only under the notion of the public, understands itself as a community of enlightened individuals who enjoy art and the media of free press. As ancient times as such a formulation of the civil society sounded today, it cannot be denied its right to be valid, because just as the illiterate public represents a contradiction and an adequate and round square, wooden iron, something that is physical and metaphysical inability, is equally impossible, systematically deceived, permanently manipulated, corrupt public. It's simply a logically unsustainable concept. Protecting the public in this sense is the common objective of these laws. Of course, the law on culture is something that has been waiting for Serbia for almost two decades, the first one is in this country, and it needs to be looked forward to as such, but especially to highlight this systemic, roofing character, which means that the matter in question must be further developed and specific laws in the area of culture that follow. However, significantly greater legislative efficiency in the field of public information is not a sign, unfortunately, of deeper attention to this area, but rather, it is a symptom of the fall of standards in public protection. That's why I refer to another universally significant character of the public information law that actually highlights its ethical and civilizational meaning. The highest ethical value is, of course, as we know, the freedom of an individual's personality. It is easy for us to understand the difference of freedom in contrast to each type of coercion, but the civilization's achievement is clearly to distinguish freedom from arbitraryness. The fact that freedom in the civil state of one society must always necessarily be limited by the same freedom of others actually makes a duty as the only possible content of freedom. Does it seem to you that in a community where the dignity of others, the right to the privacy of others is completely unprotected, that in such an environment can be talked about the achievements of civilised society in the area of affirmation of freedom? Serbia is, beyond any doubt, a civilized community, but beyond any doubt, the pressures that push our society towards a natural state, which wipes out democracy, introduces the processes of social anomalousness, devastion of civic values and civilization values in principle. As a result, the next principled character of this law, which concerns the protection of the public information system itself, is extremely important under the operation of such a force in the very specific context in which we live in Serbia today. I would point out to you some relevant views of prominent analysts and workers in the field of public information. For example. in lectures held by the Konrad Adenauer Foundation in Serbia on pluralism in public information in Serbia, Mr Gjorge Vukadinović explicitly pointed out that the tabloidisation of the media in Serbia, which crosses all borders, is just perverting pluralism as the value of freedom of information and degrades the very category of freedom of information, which we called public in civil society in a recent debate. I would draw your attention to the interview that Veran Matic gave the list of "Today", which explicitly says that in Serbia today, numerous media are corrupt, corrupt by those whose corruption should be enlightened; it points to the existence of the domination of financial centres of power independent of institutional control and supervision, and that they are free media, and it is very important who says that at this point, at the risk at which they were 15 and 20 years ago. The ambition of this law is to protect the system of public information in this very context and to protect journalism as an action, drawing particular attention when issues of compliance of such standards with European standards, civilization achievements, international environments are already being raised. You will not, in the codification of journalistic ethics, no matter what code you speak of in this reference environment, find that at least in some way or under some other form, there is no emphasis on journalistic attention, as a duty and demand responsibility before profession, as a criterion shared by instrumentalised media and journalists from professionals who are worthy of their social and significant activity. All of this I say we mention the fact that there is a force that works in Serbia that pushes it towards the natural state and devastation of democratic values. What kind of force could that be? I'm not saying it's easy to name it, but it might be easier to decryption the effects of its operation, and that decry, as a kind of inventory of noise and anger, would actually be one socio-pathological phenomenon of everyday life in Serbia today, for which I would borrow a title from a collection of texts of one of the most prominent journalists today, Zoran Panovic, he calls it – Holding Serbia. Decry that would also have to link high-tech to the lowest primitive motives, and highly-proclaimed standards with low-profile centres, and estradius and politics, and crime and power, a descripation that would point to the existence of a force that Serbia wants to see as a country where international trains do not go, and if they do, then for hours they stand, hypothetically waiting for a minister to come along personally to dissipate the labour line in protest. It is a force that wants Serbia in which unemployed hypothetically protest by cutting off its extremities, and after that they are not subject to the attention of health, social institutions, but on the central media we show them as relevant negotiators on the topic of understanding the crisis in Serbia today. Obviously, such a decry points to the anti-democratic character of such a force, because it, acting unexposed, testes the real power of democracy in Serbia, putting it on the test over and over again, with an unhindered ambition to be more dominant, to be stronger than the will of the people themselves. It's not easy to name that force, but I love, at least as a metaphor, to use the name of one, from the recent history of the known force, which was semi-public, semi-secret, above the reach of the people, legally above the law, and today, as a metaphor, I use the word Marriage. The law on public information sets a very clear line between civil and Pristina mentality in Serbia today. The fierce debates that can be heard today only worry about that fact, and what the mark is is is not any restrictive character of this law that promotes cruel force. No, it's the spirit of the reform character of this law. It is a reform resistance to reform by those forces who want to promote a simple principle. People understand, he is the one who lies, steals and steals. When someone steals a spiritual substance, the truth, is his crime less than when they steal material values? If that wasn't sanctioned, that means we agree to an ambience of standards that have a disposition, but not a clear, effective and applicable sanction. The environment in which a breach of the norm does not follow an unsuspecting application of the sanctions is an ambience of lies in which it is said that norms do not apply and that everything is allowed. This unity of reform resistance to reform is, in fact, the expression of a political force that has been plagued by the rusty infinity of politics, the accession to European standards and the movements of "ad infinitum" and also the persistent care of the KIM problem. It is a policy that has disgusted democratisation in Serbia, which, by the way, wants a European strong democracy in Serbia today.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24292	The word has been made by the People's MP, Miss Marina Ragush.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24293	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the representatives of the ministry, especially when it comes to you, Mr. Bradic, I am truly very pleased that you are present, and I think that in the coming period, hopefully, we will hear some of the answers that have been bothering us for some time. Before I move on to the actual criticism of this bill on amendments to the Law on Public Information, and I will talk more about it, since my colleagues are going to talk about the Proposal for a Law on Culture, I must first ask, of course, the colleague who just presented it, and look back at all these philosophical figures of his, and I am asking you in particular, don't you like this bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information to the real reform "suspensive" law? I'm also sorry that some of you who are sitting here now have heads and are very likely to have been talking to you a few years ago you wouldn't believe the situation that we're going to be discussing this bill on amendments and additions to the Public Information Act, which essentially sanctions freedom of public expression, and that's our political position. First of all, before we enter the very core of the opening of the controversy that we must promise you, Mr. Minister, that the controversy will be very clear, very open, with the gloves off, but very polite and hopefully very argumentative. We will be extremely pleased that in this interactive discussion with all of us, you either deny us or silence, as is your custom, confirm all of this that the SRS is going to talk about. The SRS intends to bring to the very surface everything that exists in the media and what affects political decisions in Serbia, which is definitely under occupation, so the SRS, unlike a previous colleague who spoke about centres, will be able to, say, speak, Mr Minister, of Canet Subotic and of what has startled us, that you did not sanction the owner of the largest distribution network for exceptional debts to domestic media. If you hadn't sanctioned his influence on domestic media and on media space, and let me remind you, that's the face on the APB. Also, the SRS will talk about Mr Miskovic, Mr Bek, about the penetration of German and American capital in the media, about newspapers and journalists who are on the payroll and about the background of what is actually behind this, I must say, the most wonderful bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information. I'll try to explain what I've just qualified. To make a parallel, a while ago we were listening to the head of Mr. Tasovac's Belgrade Philharmonic. I don't know which political option that man inclines, I absolutely don't care about his political beliefs. I know very well that everyone in the profession appreciates it. Because of the inability to raise the level of the Belgrade Philharmonic to the enviable level that the members of the Belgrade Philharmonic Response have come out publicly and said, he has announced his shame and said he cannot deal with what he needed, Mr. Minister, you to provide it. It was really your only job. What is also outrageous, and we were trying to talk about it in this prestigious building, even if by definition it should be, is together with Mr. Tasovac and indeed difficult artistic names have also resigned to their posts for the same reason, because they did not want to further participate in the definitive killing of Serbian culture. Mr. Minister, I am an MP who has asked you publicly how you are not ashamed to continue to be a minister in that area as a man. The answer I got was the answer that's part of your political style. I thought I made you angry, and if I did, I apologize, it wasn't my intention. Personally, it would be very difficult for me as a man if people with their skills had confirmed their careers and walked out of a house that I should represent and that I was proud to continue to represent the house that collapsed. I'd really be ashamed. A sense of shame is a personal act, but you'll admit I hope, and part of professional morality. That was why I gave you this question in public. I thought it just happened, that the problems in culture were such that you couldn't deal with it all. I expected I did, because of the hope that we should all touch in Serbia, which is ruined, and now it's thrown on our knees, that you give some hint that with Serbian culture and in Serbian culture and cultural thought and action, it will nevertheless introduce certain criteria and that there is a better tomorrow for such an important and sensitive area, especially for the Serbian nation. You gave the answer to this proposal by amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information. Now I have to tell you, I'm afraid of you. Because what is predicted for Serbia is such a bill not that it has nothing to do with democracy, with Christian norms, but it's total darkness. We can now vary this in a number of ways, we can assume the 2003 situation, if it is Serbia that is preparing some significant political event. Is this going to blow up an event in Serbia that will be overtures of the state of emergency? Let me, all that's been going on in the past few years gives us every right and every argument to think about it this way. If by means of this kind of punishment policy you're trying to bring order into the media, I'm going to deny you right now. You're trying to bring in media darkness. That's where all those who are actually all these wanted persons, who are and how they're tied up with some former and current presidents of neighbouring republics and in large affairs that are on the edge of the law, will go well. Those media who give space to different thoughts and other arguments, we really believe in it, and we will prove it during this debate, these media will be the hardest to pass. Then I'd like to see you, how some generations that come after all of us will come out and talk about the interruption of continuity with the totalitarian system and the democracy in which you were one of the carriers of these legal solutions. Since we really think that these days in Serbia, in this time that we are given, the days related to the direct survival of Serbia, Mr Bradic, the debate that you will have the opportunity to hear will not be easy at all, it will be very difficult for all of us, this debate will dispel what the SRS has announced, and he intends to show to the Serbian public, regardless of what you have suspended a direct transmission, we will find the answer without any rest. Finally, to completely demascate what motivated the urgent process of such draft legal solutions for what is called free journalism, or at least that should be. We will prove this link between the different circles of power in the ruling coalition with the monopolies, which and how obviously on the payroll have you from the executive authority, and then it will be very clear to the people in Serbia what is actually happening, who directly manages Serbia and what is the future that awaits all of us. First of all, since I see you following closely and I am glad to hear it, I would like to hear from you which of the journalists and the press associations participated in drawing up this draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Information Act, because then we would very easily understand all these articles in the means of public information that you were talking about. We do not understand, and we would like to hear the answers from you. Why is the waist passed this time, because the waist clearly rebelled? Why were the professional associations passed because they also rebelled? Why the urgent procedure of this bill? Since I already see the disdains of the representatives present, what I will dare to read are the very reactions I am talking about, as far as these draft laws are concerned. It seems to me that you mentioned the Association of Independent Electronic Media, and among other things, it said in their statement that it invited you to reconsider some of the solutions set out in the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and to respect the objections of journalistic media associations. In a statement, AEM estimated that some of the proposals the government offers in amendments to the Law on Public Information miss the goal and pose a danger to freedom of expression in Serbia, and that new solutions should be sought in tax and criminal regulations. In the Government's proposal, ANEM considers it unacceptable that penalties for the violation of the assumptions of innocence are linked exclusively to the value of the sold advertising space, i.e. the circulation, without taking into account the circumstances of each individual case. It's anem. Among other things, the Association of Journalists of Serbia also calls on the government to withdraw from the assembly procedure a proposed amendment to the Law on Public Information. The culture ministry says all constructive proposals will be discussed, but the essence of the bill will not change. What was also part of a statement by the Association of Journalists of Serbia is because there was no public debate on the act, and they say there is little time for the text to be corrected by amendments. "The laws on information must not be changed urgently, nor in secret, and the adoption of this law for the 1st item of the agenda of the Serbian Assembly's extraordinary session points to the proposal's intention to do just that," the Association of Journalists of Serbia said. In the statement, too, this is very important, given that we also had the opportunity to hear Serbian Deputy Prime Minister in one show, Mr Bozidar Djelic, his claim that the Esnaf associations had been consulted before the law was amended, and it is said: "The first information about prescribing dragon penalties for the media was only received when the government established the bill and sent it to the Assembly for adoption." I can also confirm that personally, because I am in constant communication with many editors of prominent daily and weekly newspapers. Let's move on. The independent society of Vojvodina journalists also announced that it opposes the proposal to amend the information law, because its creation is not a consultative profession, as the blade of these changes will be directed against the few remaining honest media in Serbia, not against the obscenity tabloids. These are concrete facts, Mr. Bradic, and they seem to be different, if I listened well to you in the opening statement, from what you said. There'll be an opportunity, so you'll deny me. You will tell which people have participated in the drafting of such a bill on amendments and additions of the Law to public information. We had a chance to hear editor B 92, also the lawyer of that television station. We've also had opportunities to hear many other editors publicly. To the truth, what also motivated me to think carefully about how to approach, and to remain at the level of professional and reasoned criticism, is the open letter that you received from one of the editors of the Witness list, who tried to draw attention to the current situation in that media space and those issues that public read daily, and it is about monopolies who owe them money for those sold copies that they managed to sell. It is a direct relationship between domestic printed media and Canet Subotic, owner of Future Plus. Among other things, Mr. Dinic, who is the editor of the Witness, says in that letter that, that's what we have the opportunity to hear from other editors and other professional associations, what was expected of you, and somehow the story of the amendments to the Information Act is that it came from, is in the first place to create conditions that media houses from distributors and sellers in time and according to existing contracts charge their sales of goods; then to create conditions that sales chains that do not pay the stolen goods are forced by forced means, as they charge taxes on added value. You're also expected not to share the media on ours, other people's, mine, theirs, similar and unspeakable. You were also expected not to make hasty statements that are interpreted one way or the other, because it only brings confusion and evil blood to the dirty press market anyway. You were also expected to just apply the law, not to freely interpret the provisions of the law. You were also expected to have state ads placed on the tender, to have all the editorials equally involved in the race for ads, not to share the ads as so far, either in the kefu or in the personal interest. If you'd done that, we'd all be convinced that you want to arrange the media space. Why did I read this? Because, among other things, the members you've foreseen here, who should sanction public voters, speak of the fact that the underlying capital must not fall below a certain level, because there is a suspension of work in the opposite way, as the suspension of work follows in any other case in terms of the inability of the indivisibility of the media. Now I ask you -- what about Future, which tens of thousands of euros owes to print media and what print media can't charge, and that's the money they've earned? What about the situation where Cane Subotić or Miskovic paused distribution because an interview was published that was not in their will? If you had predicted this by amending and supplementing the Public Information Act, we would have believed in your intention to arrange the media space. This is how you denied us. In fact, this bill definitely puts you in a position that the media will first rarely be able to deposit 50, 100 or 150 thousand euros on the eighth day of the entry into force of these amendments and the addition of the Law. Also, what is significant is that at this very moment in the financial crisis, when the media is fighting for liquidity, when journalists survive, owners, editors, you are trying, and we have dealt with this account, to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget somewhere with about 20m euros. And maybe you'd charge that budget a lot better than a tycoon, if you'd just enforce the letter of the law and charge what they owe for it. The SRS is, since, of course, I won't use it, and I've already exceeded the time, but well, it doesn't matter, I hope I have the opportunity to continue to participate in the discussion with you, and to hear some very important answers that we need over-work on this subject, will not vote in favour of this bill, because it considers it completely democratic, and we are always on the side of freedom of expression, but also responsibility. The SRS has submitted nine amendments, which the proponent hopes will have heard, even if he thinks about what he really wanted to do in Serbia's media space with this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24294	Of course you'll get a chance. The word has an authorised representative of the political club for European Serbia, Mrs. Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24295	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these two laws we're talking about today, although they're from different fields, they're one of the amendments to the law, the other is the system law, they still have a few touch points. I think the first touch point is that both laws introduce, in a sense, order in the areas to which they apply. The second point of touch is that, despite the fact that there have been certain misunderstandings here concerning the participation of professional organisations, associations, institutions and professional associations, there have indeed been consultations and participations in the preparation of both laws. The third touching point is that, because at the beginning of this debate, we have already received amendments to the amendment and addition of the Information Act adopted by the Government, which I expect the Proposer and the Law on Culture to have a hearing on a number of amendments and that the amendments to the Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Culture Act will respect all those amendments that will mean improving the texts of both of these laws. I just want to say that, listening to today's discussion about changes and additions to the Information Law, that I have the impression that even those who are against, are in fact in some way declarative, because they use in their discussions some arguments concerning motives, the atmosphere that governs society, circumstances, and not essential legal provisions. Because what is important, these amendments to the Information Act do not in any way jeopardise the basic principles laid down by the Information Law, and they concern freedom of expression of thought and work, the right to information, freedom of information in the public interest, the ban on censorship, the independence of the media, etc. There have been a lot of objections and objections to the level of penalties that have changed, but if we bear in mind that the penalties provided for so far by the Information Law have already been calculated in advance by many media in violation of the law, then it is quite clear why it is going to increase these penalties, although, as far as I can see, according to the amendments adopted by the Government and they will be less compared to the proposed text. What I would talk about a little longer, regarding the law on culture and, of course, repeat something that has already been heard in this discussion, that after 17 years, Serbia has finally received a system law in this area. The previous law, passed in 1992, took two and a half sides of the official messenger. This law has made a serious attempt to systematic and regulate the general interest in culture and in defining this general interest, I believe, in the area of culture, an unintentioned error has been made, that cultural goods have been left out of this general interest and that only the general interest of cultural goods is found to be of great importance and cultural goods from the cultural heritage list. I guess we'll make it right with the amendments. What is new in this law, among other things, and I think it is also very important, is to adopt a cultural development strategy; public competitions for projects and programmes, as well as for the selection of directors in cultural institutions. Also, recognitions and awards set up by law to contribute to national culture. A very important area that regulates the question of status, the concepts of an independent artist, the position, the rights of artists, artistic associations, their representativeness, etc. To be honest and honest, I think this law finally regulates one issue that was most often raised by controversy and any one of those neurolgic points, which is paying social contributions to pension, disability and health insurance of independent artists. Finally, we have regulations and regulations that will regulate that area. Of course, in this discussion today, and it is what is new in this law on culture, it is the formation of a national cultural council. Culture is, I mean, one of the few areas of social action that still doesn't have a national cultural council. Of course, and it wasn't possible to have it, we didn't have the law, but what causes controversy, that's also the number, the composition, but also the way the National Council was chosen. I can't hear myself, I don't know how others hear me. What this law lacks and is likely to discuss when we consider amendments, it concerns two, for me, very important areas. One area of privatisation, which is really very contradictory, but I think we'll also be on the Committee on Culture, and also in the debate on amendments, let's say, clear up some of the dilemmas that arise on this issue. The second area for which there is absolutely no interference with the regulation of this law, before the existing Article of Law 23 provides that the law can lay down specific conditions for the establishment of institutions in certain cultural activities, and primarily refers to regional institutions for the protection of cultural monuments and so on. Intermunicipal archives – 12 regional institutions, 33 municipalities, etc. Intermunication archives. I speak so-called because it's a name from the past, which is neither in heaven nor on earth. It is about some of the most important cultural institutions this country has, an institution of culture that protects the cultural treasure of Serbia, which have no status, no way of funding, no definition of jurisdiction, and I think it is high time that such a significant area and such significant institutions, at least in several basic issues, which is the issue of the founding act, the issue of regulating the way of funding is also found in this law. Of course, I think there's another number of cultural laws to be defined, defined, explained, and in that sense I would point out that it was a very important public debate, or public hearing of the law on culture, organised under this roof. Unlike some discussions, as a national MP and as a citizen of Serbia, I was very proud to have gathered nearly 200 prominent cultural workers, directors, president of art associations under the roof of this house. You will allow me, as well as some kind of gratitude, and as some kind of instruction that we must listen to their voice, I am talking about their statements, their discussions, being well embedded in a number of amendments to the Serbian Parliament. You'll let me just read, in the order they came forward, the participants in the discussion, of course, not all 200, but those who spoke. Mr. Miroslav Tasic, Secretary of the Ethnographic Museum; Vesna Ćirić, Director of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, Valjevo; Živorad Ajdačić, Secretary of the Cultural and Educational Community of Belgrade; Slobodan Živković, Secretary of the National Museum; Branko Kavaja, Secretary of the Museum of Science and Technology; Branko Cvejić, Director of the Yugoslav Drama Theatre; Milivje Mlađenović, Director of the Serbian National Theatre; Ivan Tasovac, Director of the Belgrade Philharmonic Museum; Branko Kulić, Gallery "Majice Serbian", Novi Sad; Sreten Ugričić, Director of the National Library of Serbia; Radoslav Žožanović, Director of the Shražilnožna Krazić, Mr. Dragožović, Mr. They all made very professional, very competent proposals for this law. I have used my time as an authorised promoter to read their names, to thank them once again, to express my expectation that the proposals they have made, which are set out by the amendments of the NS MPs, will find their place in the final version of the cultural law, and in this way we will finally get as a country a good and comprehensive law on culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24296	I give my word to the authorised representative of the NS parliamentary group, Mrs. Aleksandri Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24297	To avoid further delay in the process, I suggest that both the Government and the Assembly move immediately to the next phase of Serbian journalism, order all printed and electronic media to publish stamps with warnings on the front pages, such as those on cigarettes. For example, journalism kills, a journalistic word harms people in your environment or the children of newspaper readers more often suffer from retardation, small and medium brain inflammation. Also, banning the list of newspapers and watching television in public places, and under parol – the journalistic word is a serial killer, instantly launch a general campaign to dissipate the media. I guess that'll smart our society where it looks like journalistic inventions are thought to be an ultimate evil. According to the past few weeks, the evil media has been in charge, if not the only obstacle to Serbia's better European future, so all government and non-governmental forces have been launched against them. The latest state measure against journalists is the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Information Act, which was passed last week by a revote at the government, if we are discussing today. The proposal provides for far more rigorous penalties for the use of information means than previously, ranging from one-day to one-week media revenue, which has published disputed information, i.e. according to estimates of between three and 50 million dinars. If the parliament agrees today with the government, and some assume it will, the average Serbian journalist will have to think as a KGB secret agent in Washington during the Cold War -- no one to talk to about what you're doing, trust no one, practice European terminology, so that if someone stops you on the street you can rot on Euro-Atlantic integration. Anything you learn to pass on to your editor who will once a week keep a secret contact with you, and immediately erase it from memory, swallow the note so you don't accidentally fall asleep, and if the enemy catches you, you'll deny any connection to the editorial, and you'll claim to be a free journalist who deals with this job from persuasion, not assignment. Fifty million dinars. You must have heard that joke when the police asked Ciga what was doing in his iron house stolen from a nearby warehouse, and he told them it must have been his son. They tell him that it is impossible for a six-year-old child to carry a 200-pound slave, to which he reciprocates—a fellow militiaman, who knows what a 200-pound child is. Also, since Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic claims that he usually has five to six thousand dinars in his wallet, he probably doesn't know what 50 million dinars are. Since he's the president of this body, which is the legislator of the law, the government guard, I'm going to try to help him understand. Fifty million dinars is exactly 50 million more than the fined service whose members killed the protesters in a protest against the extradition of Radovan Karadzic and whose member with a gun killed an unarmed young man who passed through the red light. Fifty million dinars are exactly 50 million more than the punishment of an institution whose officials have unwittingly examined a girl, so she died because of the wrong medical treatment, and 50 million more than any institution in Serbia has been punished, although every few of their patients go over the line to the other world. That's also 50 million dinars more than the fine of the local judiciary that has issued to so many criminals the belief that they are honest citizens. This is at the very least 50 million dinars more than the body chaired by Mr Cvetkovic, which has not fulfilled any promise made during its assembly. I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister, or his envoy, my favorite culture minister, Mr. Bradic – why are 50 million dinars more expensive than police mistakes, healthcare, judiciary, ministries? Are they more fatal, are they more tragic, do they carry more lives? Cvetkovic may not think so, but that's why Bozidar Djelic, deputy prime minister, a man full of energy, is convinced that journalistic sins are truly the most devastating. In "The Insult of the Week", staunchly defending the bill, Djelic said, paraphrasing – Remember that the murder of Zoran Djindjic began with media preparation. The children trust Santa Claus, and the Democrats apparently Peter Lukovic, who has been making noises for six years, among other things, that Djindjic was killed by Kostunica's journalists. That Lukovic's view, shared with him by the whole so-called second Serbia, it's very justified. Lukovic and the like-minded people know how to kill statesmen, or not to kill each other. The U.S. Intelligence Service, a state that in one way or another helps the operation of this so-called. Serbia's second, she even tried 638 times to liquidate one country's president, a certain Fidel Castro. But Castro's still alive, which means Cia's gone missing somewhere. Where? Well, in that she didn't have Cuban journalists on her side, and since Djindjic was killed, that means that there must have been journalists involved in the assassination, right? E, Boza Djelic will prevent future similar cases by punishing every journalistic invention with three to 50 million dinars. Djelic's account, I guess, is that mobsters have as little money as his boss Mirko Cvetkovic, and will then give up killing statesmen because they don't have enough money to pay for tendious lies about him. There are those who are convinced, though, that he insisted on such a bill personally, with his head, beard and guitar of the economy minister, better known as Mladjan Minhauzen Dinkic, an expert, otherwise known for never, in any way, co-operated with the tabloids. For example, Dinkic on his back rode the daily list "Kurir" and couldn't let him go, and Dinkic got sick of it, so he decided to give legal regulation the writings that were published on him. Many believe it's actually the backdrop of this whole story, but no, I think it's something much more dangerous, much more current than killing the former prime minister and much more expensive than the current Prime Minister's wallet. Here, as in the case of famous investigations by the Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes for the functioning of Serbian media during the 1990s, it is about old good censorship, which otherwise mutilated the local vote, which is why in Serbia we have a boring, predictable, unbalanced media image and a similar huge abstinence in the elections. Authorities, scarred by so-called the NGO sector, tycoons and foreign centres, even these media outlets, which are usually in favor of them in the largest number of cases, generally give them a finger, they want the whole hand. Miodrag Zarkovic, a journalist of "New Serbian Political Minds", says – as far as I'm concerned, I haven't given them a finger, and the hands can only take me. If anyone has evidence that I held down Zvezdan Jovanovic's rifle and prepared it in any other way, helped and facilitated Djindjic's assassination, I ask the investigative authorities to bring me to justice urgently. Let them arrest me, sentence me, and send me to suffer punishment, so that I will no longer pose a threat to Serbia and its institutions. I would also recommend that they do the same to me if I intend to liquidate Dinkic. But otherwise, unless they have any evidence that I've been working on the late prime minister's head, or that I'm targeting some evil current economy minister, I'm asking the authorities not to make it difficult for me to do journalism anymore. Is that so hard, Mr. Braddick? Before I go to the public information law, I'm just going to show you what's really going on here. In fact, while this session was going on, we had the opportunity to watch "Tur de France" at RTS first, and then... (National Member Aleksandra Jankovic plays music on her cell phone. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24298	Please, first you mocked an ethnic group. Now you're starting to play music. Please get serious. As an authorised representative, you must seriously explain your proposal to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24299	I don't understand. It's serious. Can you translate it into Serbian for me? It's an official language in Serbia. I just wanted to demonstrate what is more important to the Public Service than the session of the Serbian Parliament. "Tour de France", we should have come here on bicycles, MPs of the opposition, to be respected by our remarks. Are we supposed to play for Sevojno or are we supposed to be in this commercial for the United Arab Emirates? What does that look like? Don't remind me again with words I don't understand and don't understand half of Serbia. Serious. So the repression is the main feature of the new information law, as in these congregations. The amendment to the Law on Public Information, discussed today by the Assembly, is one of the worst public speech strikes in Serbia today. Article 1 of this law introduces an institution – bail, from which the authorities will charge fines to journalists. It is 50,000 euros per day and 10,000 euros per week. Those martyrs who cut their fingers, those martyrs lying on the tracks, they can't even imagine a figure like this. As soon as there's less money on the checklist than this amount, the list automatically shuts down after a short procedure. That's what you're an expert on. Article 2 prohibits the founder of a public message from passing or otherwise having the right to a public vote. That would mean that the founder can die, but he can't sell or transfer rights, which is actually one of the sequences of this attitude. Article 4 introduces a fine if a person is referred to in a public note as a perpetrator of a criminal act before the court's decision of law. There's only one punishment. It shall export as much as it is worth selling the circulation of a public note delivered to distributors on the day of publication of the information and the value of the advertising space sold in that number of public messages. This means that if, for example, "Kurir" publishes a photo of Mladjan Minhauzen Dinkic crossing the street outside the pedestrian crossing, and there is no judicial verdict by a judge for violations that Mladjan Dinkic is punished for crossing the unmarked site, the "Kurir" will be fined at least 30,000 euros. Articles 5 and 6 already existing fines for editors and voters, increase more than 20 times. So the editor responsible who, for example, releases the news mentioning a minor so that this one is made more famous instead of with at least 30,000 will be punished with at least millions of dinars. The amount of penalties for individual violations now amounts to up to 20m dinars or more than 200,000 euros. The law can only be compared according to its basic intentions to the only infamous information law adopted on 20 October 1998. You called him, precisely you gentlemen who are now passing this Dinkic law – Milosevic's law. The Milosevic law allowed proceedings against the owner of lists or journalists only because they passed on news or someone's opinion that people in power did not like. The fines, just as in the case of Dinkic's proposed law, were cruel and vengeful and amounted to up to 60,000 dollars. As the death penalty extinguishes the life of the accused, such high fines extinguish his existence and that was the purpose of the law. And critical of these high fines at the time was written by a professor of law, Dr. Momcilo Grubač. The next few months after the law was passed, there was a real drop of punishment. More than 30 fines totaling more than 18 million dinars were imposed within a year after the law was passed. Thus, on October 24, 1998, the European weekly was fined with 2.4m dinars, at the time of about $150,000, to indicate that between 150,000 and 200,000 young people fled Serbia. For similar primarily political reasons, several times have been punished "The Voice of the Public", "Today", "Our Fight", "The People's News" and "Blic", as well as TV Studio B, weekly "Time" etc. Some punishments were indeed bizarre. Let's say, "The Voice of the Public" was fined on 19 June 2000 with a total of 280,000 dinars, about 6,000 US dollars, for transferring the sentences of Rada Trajkovic – the people know who betrayed KIM and fled to the thick shade of bathing apartments. In that sentence, the president of the so-called so-called president was recognized. Interim Executive Council KiM Zoran Angelkovic, otherwise Minister of Marjanovic's Government. Judge Zorica Prokic estimated the defendants to be guilty of insulting Angelkovic, regardless of what he is not mentioned here. According to the court decision, logically contained statements, and under the circumstances of the article, it can be concluded that Dr Rade Trajkovic's statement refers to the president of the Interim Executive Council, Zoran Angelkovic. Thus, according to this court ruling, it turns out that KIM Zoran Angelkovic was issued as well. Cases that have been passed so far have been commented by Momcilo Grubač, showing tendence, vengeful tenacity, selectivity, xenophobicity, fear of conspiracy authorities and other similar symptoms of the sick state and the low passions of prosecutors. Simply, he warned Grubač, repression is the motive, goal, content and main characteristic of this law. History repeats itself. What was true of what you gentlemen call Milosevic's Information Law cannot without what the people call Dinkic's Information Law. Repression is the motive, goal, content and main characteristic of this law. He's vengeful, malicious and repressive. It's not a law for free and democratic society. It's the law of an authoritarian, oligarchical and repressive regime. Is this really the European Serbia you're seeking? Instead of some own conclusion, I will inform you of the Ministers of Information, what the citizens of Serbia think about it, based on comments I read on website B 92 and the daily "Politics" website. You can't say they're under our control. They're supposed to be more under yours, but people write there, too. Here's the first comment - when I read something like this, think of the bill, I see the difference between transparency and brain-loving. Second, which flashback - comrades who became gentlemen overnight mix political correctness and freedom of speech. They'd like to introduce socio-political workers again. Brooke. He says – they will be abstentioned in voting and the adoption of the law. Those who are not - can't be so kind as to say they're not against them, because they could later say they were neither against nor against, depending on what they will need at a given time. These are the kind of fires that we have in 2009 with Serbian politics. You're assuming who this applies to. Dear God, have we fought and fought for what we have today? We fought against Milosevic's regime, in which the key figure was Ivica. The edge is today, unfortunately, a key figure and without it could not form this government. He and his pensioners, the man said, allegedly won't vote for this law. What was he like when the Minister of Information was a Wolf? At that time, socialists and radicals were together in power. I read today that Dacic wants with Rasim Ljajic to form a new party of social democratic orientation, Democrats, there's nothing. So people have a view of historical events. One thing should definitely be banned, and that is the last comment, and I think it is a good warning – abstention to vote in any assembly or body of government in Serbia. If something is unclear, there's no voting until it's clear to him, but first it's clear to him that there are limits to common sense and when someone's being silly. These people sitting there alone were looking for responsibility, thinking of us, for decisions to be made. They got it and now they have to bear the responsibility to plead to the problem that lies ahead of this society or is someone trying to tell us that the Parliament and the Government are dealing with trinity. They think about what their hair will look like when they come out of the Assembly or how to mix up as much as possible, they would not step on coalition partners, because then they will end their benefits, they will fail some burazer's deal, and at the same time they would not resent potential coalition partners, because in Serbia they are all one party -- profitable. There's no gray zone where people decide on the fate: either you're in the light or you're in the dark. New Serbia fully accepts this view. We must take responsibility for very important decisions. On that behalf, New Serbia cannot vote in favour of such a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information and can practically be an accomplice to the additional introduction of the media darkness, if the darkness has not occurred long ago. What's the fact is that it's actually something that today's English, which is so popular, is called media spinning. This is practically an excellent media spin and it's made by real masters, because we have these real masters as consultants in various agencies, McKenen, Ericsson and the like. So, there goes the promotion of crime and corruption in connection with, say, the Law on Planning and Construction, undetected, but all attention is drawn to the amendments to the Law on Public Information, to the law on culture, which we have been waiting for 17 years and which we are putting into an emergency procedure in the assembly procedure because, according to Minister Bradic, this will certainly appear on YouTube. The reason for the introduction of the law on culture by emergency procedure is that this law has adverse consequences for the lives and health of people. I just got word that this sentence of yours, or the recording of what you said, has already appeared on YouTube. Next thing you know, Mr. Braddick, who's gonna show up... (President: I would like to thank you. It's been 40 seconds. Thank you. It's all right to thank me.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24300	I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: Manjina, New Serbia, SPS-JS, LDP, G17 plus, DSS, Forward Serbia, SRS and ZES. I give my word to Parliamentarian Riza Halimi. Here you go, Mr. Riza.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to get involved in this debate about two very important laws. I can see about the information that the whole discussion is moving in a direction or criticism and the fear that these additions and changes can lead to restrictions on freedom of information and information. We probably agree that this should not happen, with absolute, on the other hand, we need to realize that there is a need to increase responsibility for public information and to break down the practice of debauchery, disqualifications that can often be found in our media. I am sorry that these amendments and additions are not allowed to take advantage of the opportunity to adopt, as well as in culture, in the field of education and in informing consent and harmonize the information law with the provisions of the new law, which we will adopt on the competences of the national councils. I have the fact that outside the territory of the Duke's information minority is at a very low level and something should be done as soon as possible to improve this situation. Just as an example, I say that the public service of RTS doesn't have one minute in Albanian, not one minute in a minority language present here. It used to be a practice. I don't know when and why this earlier practice was interrupted. At the local level, it has to be recognised, since 2001, through the Co-ordination Body, the government's decisions, certain institutions have been opened, first temporary, and there has been a certain shift and improvement in the situation on the plan, with the competition that took place through the decisions of the RRA Council in 2007, and I think there has been a devaluation, devaluement of what has been done since 2001. So the Presevo municipality remains according to some current solutions without public local information, because TV Presevo, which invested at least 500,000 euros in the facility, which in equipment or in the preparation of the expert staff and it met conditions better than most of the local media in Serbia, but unfortunately, by a strange decision of the RRA Council, the facility ran out of frequency. It's got a frequency of a private medium that doesn't meet the necessary conditions from a distance. We are in danger that this privateer, who probably intended or imagined to profit from local information and local media, will soon leave that activity and that one municipality with about 40,000 inhabitants will be left without local information, and which is here in this case without informing the language of minorities, in this case in Albanian. We have done absolutely no good to the large investments that we have had in that municipality, with concrete results that we have had since 2001. In culture, we have absolutely no institution, except for the homes of culture, which in every municipality, as I believe in all other municipalities, exist, there are no institutions that develop the culture of the minority. Earlier in a period of Tito's life, the area was used by cultural institutions from Pristina, Gjilan and other Kosovo centres. You know now the situation is more impossible, as a result of the non-recognition of Unmik's documentation. In general, the relationship was cut off and at all that possibility to use either programmes or even pieces of theatre from Pristina or another Kosovo centre. These institutions are gone so far, and it's the turn of the new law on culture, I see, in the proposal to move already, but I am also counting on the amendment that it is possible to improve, that not only formally foresees the possibility that national minority advices form institutions, but should be heading towards a concrete reality. In this case, a little closer should be bound by the basic law, in this case, by the law on culture, not only that it is possible to form a council establishment, in this case the national council of Albanians, but rather that it is really regulated to be a reality in practice. Let's see, then, what are the possibilities that Albanians, as a minority, can create their own culture in these municipalities, not only to protect the cultural goods that are at risk, but how they can, in the present and future period, create cultural programmes and try to act differently in that part and address the current very unfavourable situation. It is necessary both in informing and in the field of culture to be a more serious approach to the current government, in order not to have a situation of palitative solution to the problem, such as what we have visits to only when there are incidents, but to really be activity and communication for real life, for what happens continuously in this area. And not to make that area interesting only when incidents occur and when it comes to some executive that such incidents are being visited by the area. There is this practice of seeing life’s problems continuously and then being thoroughly informed about the events that are happening in this area.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24302	The word has an MP, Mrs. Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24303	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, the respected public of Serbia, we have two laws ahead of us, and the minister has devoted about twice as much time to the amendments and additions of one law, and twice as much time to the law that we say is the first system law to treat such an important area as culture. This essentially shows the government's relationship to these two areas. Of course, the government knows that the government truly holds the one who has the information, the one who can manipulate information, the one who at some point information can stop or channel or reshape it. Amendments and additions to this law may have a task, as some say, to make order. That expression, to make order in the information, reminded me of that order in front of the gas chamber in the concentration camps, where instead of people, the media or newspapers would end up out of control. When using another clumsy term, and we love very often to mutilate Serbian with many other people's words, and we think that everything is better than our Serbian words, that's transparent, for those who do not know the full meaning of that concept, transparently literally means transparent. Look in Vujaklia, check it out. When it comes to the intentions of this law, they are truly transparent and transparent, because these penalties that are being promoted here have only one goal, to silence Serbia, to silence Serbia who at this time is beginning to miserably shut up, and I will only say about this law briefly – the one who silences Serbia, then threatens to speak with the power of thunder. That's how history has always been. As far as the law on culture, the system law that we've really missed for a long time, and who we can talk about much more, we don't have enough time to talk about it, it's a shame that you haven't adopted at least twice the time to say everything we need to say about it, because Serbia truly needs spiritual decontamination. That's not what this law offers. I sincerely hope that soon we will have changes and additions to this law ahead of us and probably better, because practice will very quickly show that they are necessary. Even this current practice has shown this, since the government has sent amendments to the draft laws that it has sent to us immediately after the courier. So, the government wasn't clear about what it expects of its cultural policy, either, if the government has any cultural policy, because this law doesn't guarantee anything that in culture it's going to contain what it is fatal for it, it's civility, it's pride, it's grab, it's monopolies of all possible species, it's corruption, it's piracy, it's illiteracy and it's primitiveism. When we look and talk about changes in the regime, when it comes to changes in the regime, it is the least visible. Again, we have regime writers, again we have regime cultural eunuchs that prescribe everything, have the right to everything, to invent holes in the law, through which the budget funds of girls in hundreds of thousands of euros. They are the majority members of all possible paid commissions, they form awareness, style and cultural views, and so there is no fundamental change. Let's look at one particular example, it's a buy-in of books, it's an assignment of printing capital works, etc. We have seemingly private publishers who are actually para-state, so there's a lot of things that culture needs to really clean up. It's hardly going to work in one ministry, but I expect this to be a step towards it. What we need to know and what we're supposed to rely on in this law is something we really have and what we're the only ones who don't see. It's a cultural tradition. Everyone in the world at this point in general is falling and looking for values, and the whole world is at the moment of reviewing these general values, believe me, you know as well as I do, grasping for their cultural tradition. Look only in Europe how young Arabs, what they don't do in their homelands, wear what they wear, feredge, turbans, wear umbrellas, and that's a message. They buy in the most expensive Gucci outfits they wear elsewhere, when they come to Vienna, when they come to London, they're in it. It's a message, it's us. Don't think we're tanned. It's our cultural tradition. Here's an example from our midst, which could teach us a lot. Our beautiful Zuzana Halupova, who celebrated naive painting in all the meridians of the world, who promoted in the noblest and most beautiful way Serbian cultural heritage and Serbian multiculturalism, and thanked her for that, never took off her Slovak skirts, her scarf and was accepted everywhere, and always celebrated and respected in the right way. There's a lot of cases like that. What we need is to follow them, copy them, keep them safe. It's like that anecdote about the English lawn, when they ask them – how they got such a world-famous lawn. They say – it's very simple, you just sow grass, water, regularly cut and so on for 200 years. We have it all, we need to turn around to keep it. What we cannot allow, and what this law does not treat properly, I think that the four problems we have tried through the amendments are channelling, I do not believe that there will be much hearing about it, but the next attempt at corrections will probably bring results, which is to eliminate the terror of the civil mind, that the leading functions and personal solutions in the culture of mana, the release of one-party disciplines and party placements, and the party profile, that this irresistible party dictatorship is eliminated from culture, because culture is the only one who does not suffer, because culture has some other limit and that the concept of cultural policy is finally made. That's what we've been missing for a long time. What really is our concept of cultural policy? We're getting more illiterate, and we're increasingly turned to some values that are actually fake. We need to preserve what is ours, to accept something that can be accepted, not to trade all of ours for anything else. It's not a good choice, nor a good solution, because we have a truly cultural tradition and cultural consequences that we don't have to be ashamed of anywhere in the world, and every time we've had such a challenge in front of ourselves, we've answered it side by side with those who have big assets and big money. It is fortunate that humans create in spite of all the hardships that persecute them and that the spirit cannot stumble. It's very hard to admit that we're ready at any moment to cut down on culture the most. That's inadmissible. When we start to break down, then those whose crime is the only source of income get rich. Just for last, I have one question that the minister doesn't even have to answer, he can take it as rhetorical. So, what happened to the wild book market in Serbia? Who's gonna stop the big road robbers from robbing our culture in that way? We know there's something even the police are engaged in. What the Ministry says about whether the ministry cares about defending this significant segment of our culture, if not the most significant.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24304	The remaining time of the New Serbia parliamentary group is one minute. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24305	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in my address, above all, I will put the accent on the proposed amendments to the Law on Public Information, while in the follow-up debate on the principle of fellow Bortic will speak, among other things, of the proposed law on culture. So, at the very beginning, I would like to say that if we were to say today about the proposed amendments and the additions of the Public Information Act – I am simply saying today, not taking into account the amendments that have arrived and the amendments that will arrive in the next period of time, I do not want to talk about them today, I will talk about them when the time comes, that is, when the debate on particulars and amendments begins – I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group would be abstained, as was the position and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the SPS. The amendments and additions to the Public Information Act have caused, as we can see, great media attention and great attention from political parties. Of course, when it comes to the importance of the media in social life, it is simply something that was expected, among other things. What is an absolute problem when it comes to this issue is a negative odym in public and a great resistance, first of all, to the media to this extremely important issue. We believe, bearing in mind the importance of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law, that all criticisms, suggestions and proposals in this context should certainly be considered. The announced changes and additions are compared with the already famous 1998 law, which is remembered for the dragon media penalties. Among other things, today the question and speeds of adopting such an extremely important legislative proposal, i.e. a proposal for amending and supplementing the law, are being raised. In media law, there are many shortcomings especially in the media. In principle, the area of the printed media is legally unsettled. Electronic media are in a slightly different position, in addition to the Information Act, they are subject to the Law on Broadcasting, so they have clear rules of conduct under the positive legal rules, which proved to be a good solution in the previous period. For this reason, the accent of amendments and additions to the Information Act should be given to the press. Since we are also in favour of regulating this area, as it would prevent many negative phenomena, we believe that legal regulation of printed media is necessary. We also believe that the media should be a guarantee of truth in Serbia, to be freed in a certain way when it comes to any type of pressure, starting from political to other. The media must also have certain responsibilities for what they do, what they do, or what they publish. Analyzing the last election campaign, and I have to say that I don't believe researching public opinion, but I've had the chance to look at certain research, the results are such that just in the printed media there were the most deviations when it came to information. Unfortunately, the famous aphorism applies to the printed media that humans and flies are very similar, or both, to the newspaper. The appearance of so-called election papers, newspapers, i.e. the newspapers that exist when election campaigns are, but also the appearance of party bulletins gives us the right to change something, but the question is what. Changes and additions should solve several, in our opinion, drastic problems that arise and that will arise if we do not prevent them from these changes and additions that need to be changed in a certain context. First, to prevent the emergence of modern media racketeering. I'm not saying that this phenomenon exists, but I'm saying that it's legally necessary to prevent her from appearing. Simply, the media put these into the focus of interest or company, or director or political party or personality. As long as you don't get to call the deal, you're in trouble. You're on the front page. This is very difficult to prove, and that is why it needs to be legally warned in every way. The phenomenon that the headlines of certain newspapers are being made in the style of modern warrants because of citizens, above all, these countries must also be regulated. If a medium blames someone for a particular crime, this information must have its epilogue and someone must answer: or whoever did the crime or the medium who accused him. Citizens must not be led astray. Amendments and additions to the Public Information Act must provide a solution for these two aspects, as well as other unregulated things, of the type of denial. If on the cover of a accused person and he proves that this medium is wrong and that information is not valid, the media is obliged to publish the denials in the same place. In this way the degree of social responsibility of the media would also be achieved at a higher level which, according to us, should be one of the objectives of these changes. Journalists in their comments should answer for the truthfulness of the data, and I repeat, and particularly point out that the media in Serbia will be free of any type of pressure and allow them to work unhindered. Also, as far as the SPS is concerned, I want to be absolutely precise and clear, we are satisfied with professionalism and objectivity when it comes to the work of all media in Serbia. At the same time, however, it is inadmissible, and we do not want to believe that there are some who would like to keep their character and work hidden behind the law. We don't want to believe that. No one can be above the law, nor must they prevent the media from publishing the truth and doing their job. For this reason, we believe that some of the envisaged changes in this regard are very bad. I am not talking about the proposed amendments, I am talking about a concrete proposal which is discussed in principle before the MPs. The base stake, for example, of 50,000 euros, a deposit of 10,000 euros, is inadmissible, unnecessary and restrictive items. Why should only the medium be subject to shutdown after 90 days of blocking the account? The question arises – why is he different from other companies that have been blocked for a few years? The fines and up to 100 million dinars are just too big. The purpose of criminal policy is not to destroy someone, but to punish them. In the proposed amendments and additions to the law there are more gaps, I don't want to list them, but we will influence during the debates on amendments and in particular to change them. At the very end, I believe that the area covered by the printed media should be regulated legally, but this must not be hasty and to the detriment of objective and independent journalism. Just because we consider it necessary to regulate the legal area does not mean that the printed media in Serbia should be shut down.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24306	Mr. Nenad Prokic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24307	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, unwittingly or consciously you showed a sense of firm reality, even for historical justice, when you united the debate on these two laws. Because there's some final irony in the fact that this freakic cultural model that has devastated the country over the last 20 years, with all of its wrong role models and idols, and which hasn't even changed in an announcement in the proposal for this law on culture, has made us bring back the information law to a halt the media in their primitive understanding of democratic freedoms, and that understanding came directly from the perverse cultural model that ruled these societies for so many years. That's connected. Some final irony, revenge on the final irony of this merger, kind of naturally it just came together and closed a catastrophic circle that this society has described all these years. I'm sorry, but without a comprehensive change in the cultural model, this society won't be able to move into some happier and better future and this fallen society won't be able to expect better days without changing that cultural model. And it will not be possible, nor can any law be controlled by primitive media, because, as freedom has been misused on their site, in this society that has not won basic democratic qualities, so in the future, it will not be able to prevent abuse or the possibility of mourning for everything and anything that opens up to this law. It won't be possible for that possibility to be closed without changing that cultural model I started talking about in this address. Only by its comprehensive change is the possibility of hoping that the sensitive democratic balance will be possible in Serbian society at last. One chance for a sharp turn is missed, and nothing less than a sharp turn will be enough for any change and for the formulation of a new system of values that society would manage in the future, and that society in transition is really necessary and beyond. This cultural model would have to be so clearly defined in the proposal for this law, this desirable cultural model in this country, from which it can make what we want both in politics and in the economy, and not just in culture, it would have to be so clearly defined to allow for change in all segments of society, and not only in this activity that is the subject of the law itself. What is the strategic change in the system of values within the cultural model run by society? Such a strategy cannot be formed for just three years, as it says in the law. It must be so comprehensive that it must be long-term. We are a society in transition that wants to join the EU. We need to formulate a new system of values first of all in culture, and then spread it, just like the collapse started with the cultural model, so recovery has to start with a change in the cultural model. There's nothing in the proposal, not even on the legal level, not even on the poetic level. In the preamble of the Swiss Constitution stands – through respect for diversity we are facing the future. It may be poetic, but it directs one society in a particular vector that is unequivocal and that is more precise than any legal formulation. Maybe in that third attitude about strategies it can stand somewhere. The roof of the law; where is this roof law? Where are those walls? Where are those pillars? As far as I know about construction, he can't stand in an airless space with no life. If there are no walls, at least the pillars are like an ancient temple. On what does this roof law rest, on what change of system of values? We will submit a few amendments and ask you to seriously consider them and adopt them preferably. They may help to make some of this appear, even in an announcement in a grain and in that law. The information law is not the law. It's five things, it's not even a law, which is made in one way or another, and the law on culture might be complemented by a certain, some comprehensive view of this society and a possible indication of its coming out of a crisis that has shaken it for so many years. Much greater ambition was needed and much greater responsibility in drawing up this law. He is vital to this transition period in our society. If we can fix something a little bit with our amendments or the amendments to everyone else, I can see that the government is giving itself additional amendments. Obviously, this haste, unnecessary haste, is sacred to something that will have to be done again in the future with greater consideration, greater ambition and greater responsibility. Another one in a series of missed chances this society is so easily missing.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24308	Only notice – today we will work until 9:00, and the word is Mr. Milos Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24309	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I must first mention, I express on behalf of all MPs the DSS, and I hope that other MPs share that opinion, even those who cannot say that, a great disappointment over the merger of these points of the agenda into one principled search. It is first about the law on culture, which is a roof law and which deserves a serious debate in parliament. It is about amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information, where any change and addition of this capital law is of particular interest to the public and to the citizens, of interest to the MPs, because the freedom of the media is a prerequisite for democracy. It's not about any regulation. In addition to Gota, I can't speak on behalf of both laws, I'm only going to talk about amendments and additions to the Public Information Act, because to say what I have to say, I need seven-eight minutes, the rest of the time I'm going to leave to my DSS colleague who's going to talk about the law on culture, of the total 24 minutes that we have available. When it comes to the proposal for amendments to the Law on Public Information, I would unfortunately have to tell you this: what came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and even what came today in terms of amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on its own draft law, tells us a few things. First, that this law was prepared in secret, because no one knew until the other day what you were up to. Then, without any discussion, he went public by first reaching the parliamentary benches, which is not unusual, but the shortness of time and speed prepared is extremely unusual. When we read what you wrote, we faced the thought of who was behind this bill. Mr. Minister, I don't know you personally. We met a few times in our lives by shaking hands or simply meeting in a hallway or passageway and saying hello. I know people who know you well, and I could hear a lot about you, but I haven't heard anything particularly bad, believe me. As of today, from your entry into the Assembly Hall, as responsible minister for such a bill, trust me that you will enter history. If I were you, I'd be seriously ashamed of what's been done. The bill clearly has a clear motive for one of the public political figures to be committed to certain media, by making general provisions in the law that would liquidate or block the work of certain media in Serbia. The original proposal you submitted had the idea of blocking them immediately, with a censorship foreseen for a 50,000-euro founder, so that it could be published at all. The plan would be achieved, in order for lawyers in Latin to say "ipso facto", the moment the law enters into force. Then you remembered it would have that effect, so you lifted that possibility by your amendment. You have delayed the liquidation of the media for several months, by first creating certain preconditions, provided for by these amendments and amendments to the law, after which the public prosecutor would react in certain cases, in a way that envisions these changes and additions, and then there would be media liquidation. The dragon's penalties you've imposed on these amendments and the additions to the law are first realistically and in fact inconclusive. Rarely anyone would have to pay for it, and even if there was a payment or forced collection of such dragons' fines for the cases you predicted, it would automatically lead to the shutting down of individual media. To make it clear what this is about, I'm going to draw your attention to what this is about. You could defend us here all day long if it were to bring order into the media space, to teach the media that they can't shoot people, especially those who do public work and public work, in the way that it's often done in the media. So it may be a motive to protect people from media persecution that is not an unusual phenomenon in Serbia. It happens quite often, but I'll give you, for example, a few, specifically on my case, a reason to think about how much you're in error when this law is passed. At the beginning of this calendar year, several daily papers wrote of me as a national MP who in the previous meeting was the head of our parliamentary group at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and instructed me to spend millions of dinars on these trips, amounting to amounts that are basically accurate and distorting the image of their meaning, i.e. that I've never seen that money before, but that it's a state cost for parliamentary diplomacy, as there is a state cost for government diplomacy. Nobody passed that on. Was I mad at those media? Of course I am. But I was more angry with my colleagues at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who were with me in that delegation and who knew very well what that money was spent on and how it was spent, and that no one stood up for me. I guess it's not right to stand up for a fellow member of the other parliamentary group who's in opposition. That the president of the National Assembly didn't stand in my defense. Not in my defense, in the defense of this institution. This institution has done everything it could, and responsible people in this institution, to write such things. Now, when you look, was I angry with the media? I did, because those who wrote it had to know that half of the truth was a lie and that this lie could damage the reputation of the one written about it. Did I sue them? No, for two simple reasons. The first reason is that, even in the most orderly states, the media has such freedom, and they must have, that a politician who does public work, should not, in this way, communicate with the media, except in drastic cases. The second thing I said in part to the first reason, as a politician who deals professionally and works in the interest of citizens, at least I believe I'm doing it deeply, those same citizens have the right to know what they're spending their money on. I can't deny them that right in any way. Yes, there may be cases where we can sue the media, but the charges, Mr. Bradic, are filed under the Criminal Code. At this session you will have amendments and additions to the Code of Criminal Code, which provide for stricter sanctions on private charges. People defend themselves from these things in the legal system in this way, not by breaking and administrative measures. So you will never introduce order, so you will introduce a media blockade and darkness in Serbia. What used to be said about so-called. The wolf's law, it's a poem for little children compared to what you wrote, Mr. Bradic. Now I'm going back to the real question. You didn't write this. We know that very well. You answer us nicely to the question here, Serbian and clear, without twisting into the coasts and the political form of our communication in the Serbian Parliament – who wrote this to you? Which of the ministers in your government, the politicians, has worked out to do this this way? Tell us your name, because that's what I want to know. Wash it off of you, it will remain only that little leprosy you were exposed to and to which you agreed to, to get this through your hands and to come to the Serbian Parliament. I can't believe this is you. I can't believe this is you, Mr. Braddick. I can't believe you're letting people who are lawyers in your services pass the text of the bill that he proposes next. Here, for people to hear in the early hours of the morning, when this will be transmitted, those who have the nerve to watch this and who have no other business, to explain to them what you wrote. For example, since that's no good from the beginning to the end, here's an eclectic example. You said that if the public media were shut down, it was public for some reason that no one could establish a public record under the same or similar name that could be associated with the name of the message that was shut down within a year of the day of the shutting down, which is fine, Mr. Bradic. Then you said that whoever did this would be dragonishly punished for it. You've provided for a law that registers public media. Those who register the public media, I guess, cannot, under official duty, register a public message that has the same or similar name. Then you remembered what nonsense you wrote, so you submitted today the amendment to the National Assembly, in which you combined both. You remembered what you had to do, i.e. to ban someone from selling and distributing an unregistered public message. That's okay, Mr. Braddick. As far as I'm concerned, you can do the most dramatic punishment for someone like that to predict. There would never have reacted, but you kept this nonsense. You said that someone, still standing, who established a public message would be punished for trying to establish it under these conditions. That's where it says 14th, item 3th, etc. How is that possible, Mr. Braddick? It is possible if not thought by those in your ministry who are lawyers, prepare a bill or if someone prohibits them from thinking and telling them that they have to act otherwise in order to satisfy other interests. Mr. Bradiche, what interests do they satisfy here? Will you block the media? I have to defend them today, not because I'm going to defend the editor of the press, who chose to tell his journalist to muddle me six months ago, because I wouldn't be interested in it at all, not even in it, but because, by defending the freedom of the media, I'm defending democracy in this society. I believed, I thought, no matter what some things might be politically agreed on, that you are basically a man who advocates democracy, but what you wrote is nowhere, it is contrary to all the standards of EU member states. And when this goes through with the changes you've predicted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, trust me that our MP group of DSS will pursue you for this to God, if necessary. And when we come to power, we'll change this anyway, because what you wrote is unsustainable. When I say we'll pursue you, we'll prosecute you with political and legal means. If necessary, we will also address the Council of Europe, the OSCE. And those who are damaged by a bill like this, which is ultimately deeply against the constitution, these people, now I urge them to turn to the International Court of Justice in The Hague to protect your persecutions. What you are doing today with Serbia and democracy in Serbia through this law is something that you really need to seriously imagine and you need to act as scrawny as you are now. I'm not telling you this because I want to humiliate you in some way or insult you in this assembly, away from that, because I think democracy must be defended by adequate means. And if my speech here today is a defense of democracy by an adequate means, and I believe it is, it's the worst thing that can hit you today from me, Mr. Bradic. Drag this law and do not make fools of all of us, and do not make yourself a career such a stain that your descendants will be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24310	The word is from Ambassador Vlajko Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24311	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the People, I would say first that the bill of law that lies before us today came so suddenly. He is the result, first of all, of the political need to take responsibility and we want to take it, the parts of the coalition agreement made by the ruling coalition when it formed this government, and therefore part of our pre-election promises. By passing this law, we are practically fulfilling what we told the citizens during the election campaign, and I believe that with the support of the largest number of MPs, our coalition partners, by the end of the month, this law will be passed. As for the surprise of his appearance, I would only remind the predecessor that, suddenly, if I may say so, overnight, they forced us to bring a resolution on military neutrality, which seems to me, perhaps more important than this information law today, a few years after that, we can't get out of that position. Not to mention the NIS contract and the fact that it also appeared suddenly at the government's session after the presidential election was called. Therefore, there have been many worse examples, and I think, as far as this law is concerned, it has quite enough support in the public and MPs, and political parties and associations, and I believe that its final form will be an extraordinary improvement in this area. If I said there are, I'd say two wrong assumptions when I'm talking about this law. The first is that the goal is to shut down the media and choke critical words. Another false assumption today is that the media in Serbia are completely free and independent and that by adopting amendments and supplementing this law, we will choke them and prevent their freedom as it exists today. I would say that the adoption of this law is our civilization obligation which will enable and further encourage the media to write first and foremost about the government, about Parliament critically and in the right way, and to disable the media lynching and limitless accounting with an advanced target, regardless of whether it is an institution, an individual, a political party, without any responsibility for what is written or said. I think that the responsibility of all those present in Serbia is a democratic bloc, if at all more such an institution in Serbia can be defined, that we eliminate one, I would say, a dose of political conformism that takes a lot of time in Serbian society, and it is – if I am not attacked, I don't care what they attack but the other, and what they violate its rights, until I'm targeted I won't pay attention to it. I think that this way we also protect those who are on target today, we also protect those who have been on target before, perhaps some too late, but it cannot prevent us from adopting this law and to edit this important segment of Serbian society in one way that will certainly represent a significant step forward. Of course, the adoption of this law has caused enormous media attention, tensions in society, because in the media, political and economic and all other interests of one state, as well as Serbia, are intertwined. It was unserious and naive to expect a consensus to be reached on this law, but I think it is enough for it to be voted in the Serbian Parliament by the majority for which Serbian citizens have democratically defined themselves in the elections. I must say that we have a problem with the insolvency of the work of our coalition partners, that is to say, one political party will end up showing, because there are laws that we have voted for, and for which, if we were to decide on our own, we certainly would not give them support. We fully understood, and so did the DS when we formed this government, the need to respect participation, for example, the Pensioners' Party, to burden all citizens of Serbia with a significantly greater amount than what is possible at the moment when we talk about pensions, to burden the budget, to be in a position to make two or three rebalances. We didn't take exclusive party interests, we put aside even this kind of reform line that was necessary in the adoption of this law, and we really expected that in some other things, which may seem to be more important to us, but I think it should be equally important for everyone, to experience the same kind of solidarity. That didn't happen in this law. We also had a business chamber law, but it's all about understanding the way the ruling majority works. And if we, or when we decide to treat the laws the same way, we will be able in some future to have more problems and much slower laws. I believe this is the last case, and I hope it doesn't happen now. I want to say that it is not realistic to say that the adoption of this law will lead to the shutting down of a large number of media in Serbia. I'll just remind you, you all know that in the past nine or ten years, a lot of media has been shut down by itself. They were formed, they lasted about two numbers, some two months, some year or two days. Then when they completed their mission, politically or economically or otherwise, they disappeared from the media scene as if they never existed, they were closed, others were opened or similar under different or similar names. I think that's why the proposal to go automatically after a three-month blockade to close some media is a rational solution, because it's a huge degree of social responsibility and the fact that individual media, with a huge circulation that they're boasting is tens of thousands or several hundred thousand, can't afford to be in such a blockade, because then there's something really wrong. I want to say another thing, and that is the the thesis that we are going to suppress media freedom in Serbia absolutely is not true. Today, the media in Serbia is not absolutely free as we would idealize it in some kind of society. Nowhere is the media 100 percent free and it is normal that there are always different influences, it is normal that these influences will continue even after the adoption of this law, both politically and economically and each other. But in this way, I think we are taking a significant step and we are sending a message to the Serbian society that we want to change things in that area and that we want to respect the will of citizens who, by voting for our coalition, have given a mandate and to fully edit that area of society. I think that's the most important issue of property transparency. It's a very good thing, a very important thing. In this way, we will not ban the media from settling with one party or with one party, or with one party in the same party, which you can read every day in different media. But at least readers, listeners or viewers will be able to see who owns all of this and maybe get into some real goals and motives of such writing or such talk, and that's what's transparent, which is what New Serbia's MP was talking about, and it is transparent. I think that in this way we allow every media to fight for that policy that they think will allow for the progress or return of this society, which is whose goal it is, but in any case, the media scene will be much more transparent, much clearer and it will make it much clearer for citizens to know what the quality is and what the relevance of certain inscriptions and information is. The amendments proposed by the government are proof that she had heard about the public's reaction, which was what she was, that she had come to the meeting, to the extent possible, to make certain things better with good faith, without breaking the essence of the law. I believe it's a good thing, a positive thing, and I'm sure if during this debate any more concrete amendments that can correct or otherwise present it without jeopardising its essence, the competent ministry will be accepted. So, I hope and believe that the law will be adopted by a clear majority and that after that we will soon have results in the media sphere and that the citizens of Serbia will see that there is still a clear right to be criticised and to criticise those phenomena in society that the media think are not good, but that there must be clear responsibility for what is written.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24312	The word has an MP named Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24313	To talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information means first of all to ask the question why does point 1 identify itself with this law? Is it really the Law on Public Information and the need for it to change so significantly? Was the Regional Development Act as important as it was, which was also under number one at the last meeting, although it was largely unregulated and based on criteria that were not defined? I would like to announce to the citizens, which is an unambiguous conclusion, that the point 1st and first place of law proposed by Mladjan Dinkic is actually talking about the importance of the proposing himself. However, I think that this promoter has overestimated his importance, even in the act of criminal provisions, and almost the whole law speaks of criminal provisions, when, I ask Mr. Minister to record if no one has warned him, that 20 times the increased penalties may be Dinkic's understanding of their own importance and measure of value, but they are illegal under the Law on Economic Crimes and I really don't understand how the Secretariat is a legislator, or how in the government does that body bear the name, let the law with this kind of failure enter into the procedure? Also, you have one provision that is completely unconstitutional, which is the inability to leave the founding rights for one note to another. In accordance with Article 83. Constitution, attitude 1, it's actually limiting the right to free entrepreneurship. These are the two general and basic objections that I make in terms of illegality on behalf of Parliament's Forward Serbia Club. I've been listening very carefully to your exposure. On two occasions you said that freedom, and you're not the only one who understands it that way, you consider it a right to do what the laws allow. That is why, within the framework of the law, it is necessary to do what the law allows. That's why we need to pass a law that will only allow what is necessary. And Makiavelli said that, too, but the question is who determines the measure of what the law needs to define? On behalf of the citizens, I ask if Mr Dinkic's first job is to deal with the economy, so what there is not well-regulated enough to sanction, punish and edit, starts from the way companies are founded and sanctioned, and punishes those who hold firms in a blockade, and yet establish new legal entities where they avoid tax obligations. By chance, if I didn't miss documenting it, at the time you wrote this law on June 25th, in "Politica", an interview in one part with Mr. Dinkic's adviser, Luka Andric, who, on the question of journalists – is it Serbia and why Serbia, not whether it is a paradise for debtors, answers that if we changed the rules on the establishment and registration of the company, which would require us to check the credit, or business past, i.e. Debts to creditors would thus limit the company's right to set up and this would not be in line with certain European directives prescribed by the EU. When asked – why the Agency for Business Registers, which registers business entities that leave debts on the previous firm, and those as owners, natural persons, establish new businesses, continue to deal with fraud, not intent, Mr Andric responds like this – There is abuse everywhere in the world, and I insist, there is abuse in every area, and Dinkic's business is business, not the media, but the ruling majority allows it, and that is already their problem, but these manipulations are being punished in another way. He's supposed to respond to the D.A.'s office and the police and see to it that the trustees themselves are making sure that the suit is attacked by the founder of the company and that they do so. A breach through the legal face. Why do you think, Mr. Bradic, who defends this law, that it is necessary to make it difficult to set up a message rather than make it difficult for a company to establish a responsibility at a higher level? Either you think in the life of Serbian citizens, a citizen who comes out to buy 35 dinars in the morning, the question is whether he buys a newspaper or buys bread. What else can I tell you about the meaning of one topic or another? You're making it difficult to establish conditions and you're saying that at any moment, the founder of the book must have a certain level of founding role in the account, and companies can be bought for six wars, with no money at all and no more serious guarantee. Where is the measure of value, responsibility and freedom? You're looking for the responsibility of the founder, the buyer of the privatized company. Where is the responsibility to the life of a citizen, his existence? Where is the responsibility of Mr Dinkic and the other organs towards small shareholders who strike daily, who, by self-punishing, make efforts for roadblocks to exercise their right? What is this measure of the duration of injustice to respond to such an act by amending the law? How many failed privatisations need to be recorded? How many contracts does it take to break or leave people out on the street without a job to start with a change of law? No, you're changing the Public Information Act by introducing illegal and unconstitutional provisions not only for the founder, but even for the distributor of that note. Is it not enough for these eight years of failed privatisation to initiate the procedure of change, because in this society it seems that it is more important to whom something is bothering, and that is why I was talking about the importance of Mr Dinkic as a promoter, but what bothers and how many people are in the way of some regulations, or whether or not they bother him but how much people's lives threaten him? I want to tell you, and you will believe my word, whether you have felt hunger, that hunger is the most unbearable injustice that can be done to one man and that it is the supreme freedom from hunger and the work we are obliged to provide for the citizens of Serbia. You here even express yourself apparently some measures when you are wrong about the message, when the amendments are made, I will speak precisely to us when the time is right, creating a vision of equal responsibilities by the government towards the founder of the vote when you unjustly harm him for closing or confiscation of the circulation. The basic question is this: Is it a crime when someone commits a crime or when someone talks or writes about this crime? It's not rude who points to thieving, stealing, who speaks Serbian about it. The problem is in those who do and who, with the introduction of freedom or the closure of the media, should prevent them from talking about it. No, you've introduced a fine for article 37, and you're asking for a judicial verdict for a criminal offence, and you're not letting us change your definition of article 37 by amendment, which can be defined by that member so that it can be sanctioned. And in article 92, it's an amazing precision to determine how much damage you're going to charge from the one who said something that you don't like. Dear Minister, please welcome the president of the party. There is no such thing as precision in assessing the value of the company. It's hidden property, sold for ten percent of the bookkeeping value. It's a question for this Serbia, not this law. In the end, I would like to remind my fellow Members of this assembly that at the moment when they vote for this law a set of lessons offered by a good old story – in Emperor Troyan's goat ears.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24314	The word is from Ambassador Zoran Bortic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24315	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly on an urgent procedure for discussion and adoption, in my opinion is a step back in relation to the existing Law on Public Information and narrows down democratic rights acquired, both the founders and publishers of the public ballots, and citizens who, if the proposed text of the legislative amendments is adopted, will be denied for the free flow of information. The current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is one of the basic democratic principles, which is the principle of reaching the degrees of freedom and the rights of citizens cannot narrow down to new legal acts. The proposed legal text on public information is a clear example that the proponent is trying to narrow down and restrict the freedoms and rights achieved in the field of information are guaranteed both by the Serbian Constitution and the so far Public Information Act. In this regard, in particular, illustrating criminal provisions that have been tightened ten times and more so far, as well as provisions relating to the founding capital to which the owner of the public vote must have at his disposal when the public vote is established. This provision places economic operators engaged in public information activity in a completely unequal situation with other economic operators, which do not have to possess this size of founding assets and capital when launching certain economic activities. The 50,000-euro fund for a founder who issues a one-day paper or 100,000 euros if it issues two or more votes is a direct restriction for citizens to launch activity in this activity and create unfair competition among economic activities. In addition to the need for the founder to deposit the funds mentioned in the opening decision, the draft law obliges him to keep those funds at his disposal at all times during the publication of the public vote and, if he reduces them below that amount, he is obliged to suspend the publication of a public ballot within 30 days. What does that mean? In fact, it means that the legislator is also trying to limit freedoms and rights of the media, and restricts the number of entities that will deal with this activity. We think that this is wrong and that the freedoms achieved in the field of information must not be limited because of the fact that certain media abuse these freedoms. We think that the existing public information law, as well as other regulations regulate this area, have enough criminal provisions to rightly sanction all abuses that some media use to attract more readers or viewers. Our parliamentary group, and especially us in the SPS, have no reason to support narrowing and restricting rights and freedoms in the field of information. Therefore, this text of the law proposed by the Government should either be supplemented by amendments that will improve or remove it from the agenda of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24316	The word is from the MP of the people, Mrs Lidija Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, at the very beginning, I would like to point out that we have had two meetings of the Committee on Culture, we have had more, however, these two are significant by the presence of all the managers or all the public figures working in cultural institutions, as well as representatives of the association. I thank them for their presence, and I think they gave them very crucial and meaningful objections, which could basically improve the proposal for a law on culture, which needs to be crossed and finally after 17 years we get the law on culture. What is debateable and what is problematic is, in my opinion and in the opinion of the SRS, these people who came, who are my colleagues, who are prominent cultural workers, were deceived for the simple reason that the proposal for a law on culture first passed the government, and then came to debate. So he's already been defined as he is. On the other hand, what is possibly accepted by all these very significant and essential proposals is something that is of minor importance to this law, so it turns out that people came for free, and the Ministry of Culture didn't look back and give themselves enough time, probably didn't have time to seriously deal with this proposal for a law on culture and to write adequate amendments, but they were written at five to twelve. This morning, we were summoned to the Committee on Culture and Information at 10.00 a.m., with some remarks that are of minor importance and which very little can fix this law. I'd say we can't call the bill on culture because it's a fraud, it's a scam for all of us who listen to this proposal for a law on culture. This is called the state administration in culture. If that's what we call this law, then we could say -- it's really great, it's well written and it matches its name. Why the state administration in culture? For the simple reason that all the authorities have the government, as an executive body, and the Ministry, have brought in a large number of sublegal acts that they carry out. This bill has been under discussion for years. However, only privileged representatives of the association of close authorities and privileged representatives of public cultural institutions had to be included in the discussion of the Cultural Law. As the government often changed, so the bill on culture had to be adapted, so we waited for it for 17 years and finally nothing good and nothing useful was welcomed by the cultural workers in Serbia. Legislative provisions are based on the interests of certain institutions and the interests of certain associations of close authorities, and, of course, according to these arches, commissions created by the cultural ministries have also been formed. They were in charge of providing certain funds that would finance projects, as you say, various films, national pensions, which is one of the most painful points of this proposal for a law on culture, the financing of concerts and all other cultural activities that concern Serbia. As for the National Pensions Commission, I think it's a great sin that was committed last year and I don't know what you could possibly do, Mr. Minister, to answer me. We didn't have clear criteria on which to determine which commission it is and which way it brings and rewards someone with an epithet and gives him a national pension and not someone. We have one drastic example, and that's that the lady, I wouldn't mention her name, you know well which, and she'll recognize herself, who's had a 10-year internship in Serbia or the former Yugoslavia, because it lasts a little longer, which half of her working age spent in America, is the winner of national pensions. On the other hand, we have a lady, let's say Dubravka Nesovic, for whom they say they haven't heard, and which is a great shame, which she spent her working life in Serbia, who is the winner of all European awards, and since you are very grateful for the taste of Europe, I hope it means something to you and tells you, who lives on the edge of existence. Through the example of Mrs Dubravka Nesovic, I am also talking about hundreds of well-deserved artists who came in some years, and they live in public cuisine minors and thus support themselves. It's a great shame and a great sin. That's what I have to say. Something that is one of the greatest, I think, and the key problems of this bill on culture is that you directly violate the Constitution. You're breaking the Constitution and you're working against the Labour Relations Act. We just got a piece of paper saying, "The board is in agreement with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly considered the Proposal for a Law on Culture and considered the bill to be in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia." That's not true. That's a lie. I have to say for what? Because in this country since the date of the entry into force of the Culture Act, no artist employed in a cultural institution has the right to a permanent working relationship. Please, it's contrary to the Constitution and the Labour Law. You're approaching Europe and you want us to post-poo our system and change in culture and enter Europe. You have forgotten that artists in Europe are protected by strong unions, and that with us these same artists, where the re-election of actors for three years, will wait in line in front of containers, because there is no room anymore. You're taking people straight to the street. It's something that's catastrophic. You don't offer any social program and there's no severance. You're absolutely throwing people out on the street. That's terrible. Because you probably understand the way the theater lives. The theater lives through actors. The theatre lives through a young actor who has been developing for years, who at first gets easier roles, and then according to work, according to life experience he goes into increasingly difficult and harder, doing harder and harder roles. The theater is a living institution. We end the theater as such an institution. This proposal for a law on culture does not provide for criteria and conditions for obtaining the status of cultural institutions of national importance, which is disastrous. Therefore, the conditions determine the Government as an executive body, which is inadmissible. This law must count, and this is nowhere in the proposal for a law on culture, which are institutions of national importance. Do not tell me that the Mother of Serbia and the Serbian National Theatre in Novi Sad, the National Theatre in Belgrade, the Ethnographic Museum, do not have the status of institutions of national importance, although some of them celebrate the 100th anniversary. This law violates the law that was passed in 92, where the Matica is also Serbian, and the Serbian National Theatre and all the institutions that I have counted institutions of national importance. Now all I'm talking about is essential problems and what's most important in this law. By this law you abolish the Law on Associations, and that is where you violate the Law of 93. Now unlike the previous law, unlike institutions of national importance where the government is asked as an executive body, this is where the ministry is now asked. The Ministry of Culture should determine and determine which representative associations should determine the characteristics of artists and performers. For this reason I said that this law could sooner be called the state administration in culture, because as far as we can see, for all the key issues, all the important issues that are important and concerning cultural workers are asked and the authorities have government and ministry. What you should have done you well know, I won't talk about it. All representatives of the association should participate in the Commission for the allocation of status, for example, a prominent artist, for the assignment of national pensions and for the title of prominent artists. You should reduce the number of government and ministry representatives. It's not like someone from the government and the Ministry is going to determine who's responsible for getting a national pension or who's a credited artist in this country, and he doesn't know as every average viewer who's a good actor and according to his personal opinion is or isn't. Therefore, the number of representatives should be reduced and the number of members of professional associations should be put in place for objectivity. I'd like to ask you to really deal with this bill on culture in the right way. I don't think you care enough. I think it's your goal and your interest to push this through the way it is. Most artists voted for your party. Now you're simply folding them down and bringing them to the beggar stick. What are you going to do with that re-election, what are you going to do with national pensions, which are you going to share with the arches? That's what's left to see. In any case, you can laugh and make it one way or the other. I'd like to ask you to take a look at the artists, and the chefs, and the actors, and the painters, and take a look around and see how happy they are with the national pensions. Without clearly established criteria, you did it. So you're doing it fair and square. This country deserved it. Cultural workers in this country deserve it. So I don't think this bill on culture is good. Of course the SRS won't support this bill on culture, and we'll try to get the amendments to at least fix something with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-07-16-0.u24318	I thank Mrs. Vukicevic. This would end with today's work day. I'm scheduled to resume the session for Friday, July 17th, starting at 10:00 p.m. The first on the list of registered professors. Micunović, then Mr. Ivanji, and so on. Rest, long days ahead. Hello.
