ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as referred to in Article 86(1) and in accordance with Article 211 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 128 MPs attend today's work. On the basis of a proposal from parliamentary groups at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Radical Party and the Liberal Democratic Party, and in accordance with Article 204 and Article 206(2). National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, National Assembly President Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic set Friday, March 27th 2009, starting at 10:00 p.m. as the Day for Answering MP questions on topical issues. The current topics concerning which individual ministers and other officials in the Government of the Republic of Serbia will answer parliamentary questions are: The first topic – RESULTS AND THE RESULTS OF THE TOMORROWING SERBIA REPUBLIC WITH THE HasKI TRIBUNAL, which was tabled by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group. I remind you that the SRS parliamentary group has asked the first prime minister - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Vuk Jeremic, Foreign Minister Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour and Social Policy and President of the National Council for Co-operation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and Svetozar Ciplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights. The second topic – RESEARCH OF THE AUTONOMY OF THE AP VOVODINE, THE QUESTIONS OF AUTHORITY CONCERNING THE ARTICLES OF THE AP VOVODINE AND PREPARATION AND CONCERNATION OF THE LDPLECTION OF AUTHORITY BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SERVANE AND OF THE TERMINARY AUTONOMY I remind you that the LDP parliamentary group has asked MPs to answer questions on this topic: Snezana Malovic, Justice Minister Verica Kalanovic, Minister for the National Investment Plan, and Zarko Obradovic, Minister of Education. I also remind you that you have received notice from the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that today's work, due to its official absence, is unable to attend Ivica Dacic, the first vice-president - Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister. You have received the same notice as the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, but we are putting this notice out of force since Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, Prime Minister, is present at the National Assembly Hall and is ready to answer parliamentary questions. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to how to ask parliamentary questions on the current subject. "If a number of parliamentary groups have been tabled, the President of the National Assembly shall determine the order of the subject according to the time of arrival of the orderly proposals" - Article 206(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. ''The right to ask questions to the Minister in charge has all the MPs, according to the order of application on the agenda, and until the total time for asking questions and giving answers is up. The MPs shall submit to the President of the National Assembly a request to ask questions in writing until the prime minister's reply to the questions asked, and verbally during the duration of the answer. One MP can ask up to three questions' - Article 208. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 207. Rules of Procedure: 'The answer to parliamentary questions may take 180 minutes... ''So, the time of 180 minutes secretary of the National Assembly and we, at the chair table, only measure for the answers given by the government's representatives at today's session, and the time held by the MPs is not counted at the time of 180 minutes available to the government's representatives. The time for answering parliamentary questions that last 180 minutes "is being carried out regardless of the number of Members present in the session room". "The time within which the MP orally asks the question is the longest of three minutes. The competent minister shall address the National Assembly for a maximum period of five minutes to answer the question. Following a response from the minister in charge, the MP who asked the question can ask two more questions, up to three minutes in total. The minister in charge responds for a total duration of up to five minutes. After that, other MPs have the right to ask questions according to the order of applications... ''Article 209. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. "In the course of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the breach of the Rules of Procedure" - Article 211. Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. The application forms for MPs who want to participate are on the desk (they were also on the table where the stenogram is being led, here on the chair table). I ask the Secretary of the National Assembly to take care of the order of applications filed. Notice of representatives of the Government, invited and present at today's session. Apart from Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, there are: Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, Labour and Social Policy Minister Rasim Ljajic, Human and Minority Rights Minister Svetozar Ciplic, Minister of National Investment Plan Verica Kalanovic, Education Minister Zarko Obradovic, Assistant Director of the Republic Secretariat for Law Ranka Vujovic and Office for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal Dusan Ignatovic. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. (Dragan Todorovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic is asking to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. According to Article 211. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall not allow any replication or indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that is the application of Article 211. Anything you want to say will be available within the time given for asking questions. Representatives of parliamentary groups who are proposing topical topics have the advantage, and then parliamentary groups of at least the largest, alternately. As a representative of the parliamentary group that is proposing the topic, the word has been made by MP Dragan Todorovic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16619	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Government, now you can see what real terror means in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This Rules of Procedure, which was brought by the ruling majority, wrote itself. We were not involved in this because we understood the attempt to deceive and deceive. When you've already written it, then stick to what you've put into this Rules of Procedure. He's very precise. What you're doing is brutally trampling the rights of MPs of the Republic of Serbia's Parliament. Since we will not agree to be humiliated, to treat us this way, we will give you every opportunity to show the character of your authority to the public. The character of your government is very simple -- terror and robbery, and it is a ruthless robbery of the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. To make that possible, you are preventing the MPs of the Serbian Parliament from talking about it. To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, I will read Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure: ''The proposal for a parliamentary group shall be referred to the President of the National Assembly in writing and must contain a precise indication of the current topic on which questions, names and names will be asked... "The SRS parliamentary group cited the topic and requested today's session of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Article 207 says the answers to parliamentary questions can last for the longest 180 minutes, not counting the time to ask questions, and the matter is quite clear. The SRS parliamentary group and the LDP parliamentary group are two parliamentary groups. The fact that you're giving the right to an MP group that has 57, or 30, or 40, or 13, 12, five, doesn't matter at all, it's a matter of the Rules of Procedure, you've had to take care of it, but you can't put both topics on this session. We won't agree to that. That thing's completely clear. That's what logic is about. (President: Three minutes, MP. You're out of time to ask questions. Let me finish. You can do whatever you want, but you can't go as far as you want. I suppose these warnings coming from Serbian citizens who are on the verge of endurance, one of them is also this warning yesterday... (Chairman: People's Parliament, please finish. Let me finish. We'll give you, if you agree, all the time from this time that the SRS is available to you, don't be afraid...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16620	National MP, you are under obligation, not only as a proposing topic, to use three minutes to ask questions. Your remark that members who are currently in the session of the National Assembly are the result of the new Rules of Procedure is incorrect. The members we are working on are from the previous Rules of Procedure and no amendments and additions on members for parliamentary matters and a special session, therefore Articles 204-211 are not applicable. Thank you. Does the president of the LDP parliamentary group want the word as a proposal for a second topic? Yeah. Time is available for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16621	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Cvetkovic, this is not an atmosphere in which we can allow ourselves to discuss such an important issue as the issue of Vojvodina autonomy. We wanted to open this topic here in the Assembly so that it could be resolved through political dialogue, in order to find an answer in the institutions to problems that are much deeper than the incompetence of a ruling coalition or individual parties of the ruling coalition to give an adequate answer to a situation which is too complicated to be further ignored. You know, Mr. Cvetkovic, rarely any party in this assembly has shown such great understanding for your government as the LDP did. We have also seen your slowness, and your incompetence, and your impotence and objective problems as our commitment to help you, not to point at it. That is why we had a particularly important question today that we wanted to talk about, the issue of the relations between the republican and the provincean institutions, the issue of the ambience created by the internal incompetence of the authorities in the Vojvodina area and in Serbia itself, because we think it is bad to avoid facts that are more than worrying. What happened to Vojvodina's autonomy and where did it get lost in the last three years? That's what we want to talk about today, but we don't think Vojvodina should be further humiliated and punished by opening that issue in such an atmosphere. The Rules of Procedure have been changed in a rash, hasty way, every day we face the consequences that increase problems in the work of the Assembly and I think that it would not be fair to the Duchy and the Duchy, as well as to ourselves. A parliamentary group filed a request a month and a half ago to hold this session, with a theme that is important to them. Everyone's "I" is very big, regardless of the number of MPs. The SRS has asked to discuss The Hague tribunal. We launched this initiative a week ago because it is obvious that it cannot be ignored, because life imposes it, but LDP does not want to burden political life in Serbia in this way. It cannot be divided for 180 minutes without the prior agreement of all parties and the willingness to contribute in its own way to overcoming this problem. We'll talk to the Dukes and the Dukes. I hope you show up at some other opportunity. I wish you as soon as possible the law of jurisdiction that will unite us, not divide us. Mrs. Komic, don't invite us to take part in the debate on this agenda. (President: three minutes. ) Give it time to the SRS if it will help calm the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16622	No matter how grateful I am for the suggestions, there is no way that I can act against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please don't call your proposals to a violation of the rules that we have adopted ourselves. All MPs, including promoters and all others who can participate in the debate, have the right to ask questions. As long as questions are asked, there will also be answers by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I suggest we start asking the government the questions we want so the session will be... I ask the MPs to behave politely in the Hall of the National Assembly, that unworthy and improper conduct be not a picture of the session of the National Assembly and that Article 104 be respected without being thrown away, without demonstration of rudeness and disrespect of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Vladan Batic would have the right to receive a word if he wanted to. Would you like some? Yeah. I ask the People’s MPs not to earn and to behave politely. The word has been made by MP Vladan Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16623	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, I wanted to ask the Government, Mr. Ljajic, who heads the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, the foreign minister – will the government take some kind of media and diplomatic campaign after the final ruling of the Hague tribunal to the former political leaders, military and police generals, to see the entire world and the entire international community see the KIM crime of the non-Albanian population? I think it is extremely important because of the upcoming verdict, decision or advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice, that what was happening at KIM be marked as a struggle for the national liberation of Albanians with KIM, not crime and terror. With this in mind, will the UN protest be put in place to announce that Ramush Haradinaj will be the mediator between the rebels and the authorities in Uganda? A man whose hands are bloody to the elbows now become a peacemaker. Also, will the government put in a protest that Suleiman Selimi, called "Sulltan", became commander of the Kosovo Security Forces? We who collected evidence of the KLA's crimes in time have provided the UN tribunal with plenty of evidence of the crimes of Suleiman Selimi. How will he who is a war criminal be commander of the Kosovo Security Force? That's one question. Secondly, in the opposite direction, is the government ready to accept a motion for a resolution that would make Serbia's parliament absolve the Dutch battalion of responsibility for the events in Srebrenica? Or, rather, are we prepared to admit that the crime in Srebrenica is not the fault of the Dutch battalion under the flag of the UN, or Uprenofor, but of some of our countrymen who committed this terrible crime on our behalf? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16624	The word is by MP Konstantin Arsenovic, a representative of the PUPS parliamentary group. If we have listened carefully to what we have read, then we know (to repeat if we are not) that the representatives of the parliamentary groups who have applied receive the word alternately, from least to the greatest, and the MPs who ask to ask a question on one or another subject, and the representatives of the Government come forward and get the word for giving an answer immediately after the announcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16625	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, we are witnessing the marking of the 10th anniversary of Serbia's bombing. The truth of the crime in Račka was finally revealed. A false report on the crime in Račka was used as a cause for Serbia's bombing, or then the SRJ. As a result, we all know -- numerous crimes, great material damage, destruction... No need to explain, we've all witnessed these difficult days during the bombing. Also, this crime is being tried by our people in The Hague, the verdicts are extremely high, and in this regard I ask the question – does the government intend to launch a trial against Walker, who, by false testimony, has done enormous damage and caused the greatest crime against peace and humanity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16626	Thank you. Does a representative of the Minority Group want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Balint Pastor, representative of the Group of Minorities. The next in a row is the NS parliamentary group, so the SPS-JS parliamentary group, the Progressive Serbia Group, the DSS-Vojislav Kostunica parliamentary group, the G17 plus and the ZES parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16627	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on March 5th, I asked this speaker a question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Mirk Cvetkovic, when the government will establish a bill on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina. The government is obliged to answer MPs' questions within 15 days. To this day, I have not received an answer from the prime minister to that question. I believe that this is a disrespect for the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the Parliamentary Group of Minorities today, after me, will not ask other questions. We will also not do so because we believe that now is not the time to ask questions when the statutes will be on the agenda of the National Assembly and when the Government will establish a draft law on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, but now and for several months it is time for the National Assembly to discuss the draft statutes and the draft law on the powers of the AP Vojvodina. I also asked Mr. Chiplic two days ago when he would be in the process of the draft law on national councils. Not even that question, unfortunately, I didn't get an answer. I think the government should take the role of the National Assembly much more seriously and not violate the dignity of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. As for the statutes and the law on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, the SVM has done everything in the past months to ensure that this statute and this law are completed, to arrive on the agenda of the National Assembly, and we are not responsible for not respecting Parliament's dignity and that we do not have a draft statute on the agenda, regardless of what the Vojvodina Assembly referred the proposal to the parliamentary procedure of the republic's parliament more than five months ago. I would like to ask Mrs Malovic, Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. A few days ago there was a banner in Novi Sad: "1999... Bombs then, statutes now... 2009!!- I'm sorry. The goal is not to choose the means." I would ask Mrs Malovic how she, as the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia and as a member of the task force to draft the laws on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina, sees the transparency, because we think it is shameful and scandalous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16628	Does the word want a representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16629	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the honourable representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, given the very specific and serious issue that is being raised, the issue of the Vojvodina statutes, I must, as a Serbian woman from Vojvodina, ask one question first of all to the government. This important issue and such an important problem, which will address many other issues in the future and raise many new problems, above all in Vojvodina, was instructed to refer to citizens in the referendum. With all of Serbia participating in the promotion of Vojvodina's statutes, in eastern, western and central Serbia (see it in the media), I do not understand why the issue is not raised as a referendum issue. That's the first question. Secondly, I'm interested in whether this important problem, as it opens up with this issue, has the accompanying documentation in the projection of the future budget of the AP Vojvodina. What will be the sources of funding and how will budget beneficiaries be financed? Since I come from education, and education is on the republican budget, I'm worried because I know one direct consequence. Pre-school institutions have been sent to local self-government budgets in due time, and have never been able to arrive at income education again. If this is the future waiting for Vojvodina, and definitely the sources of funding will be very problematic then, because the finances are certainly behind this issue that is being opened by the statute, and that is one of the burning issues, I wonder if anyone has any projections of the Vojvodina budget for the period that comes after the adoption of the Vojvodina Statute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16630	Justice Minister Snezana Malovic wants to give an answer. I also ask Minister Snezana Malovic and all other government representatives who answer questions to say which MP they answer and what question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16631	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Pastor, thank you for asking. My vision of the transparency that took place in Novi Sad is exactly what you said yourself – it is shameful and scandalous. I expect the authorities involved in the disclosure that they are doing it more effectively, and I expect as a minister and as a citizen of Serbia, and as a minister of justice, I can tell you that when the perpetrators of this crime are discovered, I will take all measures to ensure that the procedure is effective and that we get a conviction very quickly. I will remind you that, as the Ministry of Justice, together with the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, we have initiated a ban on the organization National Machine, given that there is also a verdict that certain members of that organisation are convicted of their actions. In our initiative, we have apostrophe of what this organization is all about and our view that their further action should be banned. I think that, as the Ministry of Justice, we have fully and in an effective way contributed to respecting what is a constitutional obligation and what are the principles of the Constitution, which is respect for human and minority rights, and I think that during all those months when we discussed a package of judicial laws, in the Law on Judges, we have been able to look at this principle in the way we have presented it. That's what we'll do in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16632	I remind the MPs that, following a response from the Government's representative, the MP who asked the question has the right to two sub-questions for three minutes. The answer also wants Svetozar Ciplic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights, to give.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16633	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs and MPs, although not directly related to today's issues, certainly I owe Mr. Pastor an answer earlier. The Law on National Councils of National Minorities certainly can and should be observed within the framework of all those acts concerning the promotion of human rights, especially minority rights. In short and clear, this law, earlier this week, was also given the last opinion needed by the finance ministry, so it would be referred to the government to adopt it as a proposal next week.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16634	The answer wants Minister of Education Zarko Obradovic to give.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16635	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Dear fellow Members of the People, I have come up with the question of Mrs. Djeric and I thank you for that. I cannot say that I am giving a certain answer on behalf of the Government, or Ministry of Education, regarding the position of people in preschool institutions, but I think it will be useful for MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to hear one piece of information about what we intend to do about their status, both materially and in general. In fact, the Ministry of Education plans for this law to be the subject of reviewing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in early May, along with other laws in the field of education. Not only the law on preschool institutions, but also the law on student and student standards, the law on textbooks, amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education and System Law - the law on the foundations of education and education systems. We have seen in education that people who work in preschools really give themselves for the job, but they are in a situation that their material status depends on the financial situation that exists in local self-government, or they, as a rule, get as much money as local self-government has. Sometimes, unfortunately, they are also faced with the situation that their material status depends, if I may say, not only on finance, but also on the interpretation of normatives related to their salary. Well, if you have a rock from-to-do, it's usually applied to a lower scale. In fact, we have a situation that people who work in preschool institutions in Serbia have very different incomes, depending on the municipality, or financial situation. So, the situation in Apatino is different from that in Dimitrovgrad, Montenegro, another municipality, Belgrade, and we would like to systematically edit this issue and determine the lowest, not least, but what is an expression of the needs of the people working in preschool institutions and, of course, the professional equipment they own, so if local self-government eventually has the money to reward that work over what they do, then go to the meeting. In any case, we believe that this issue should be so systemically resolved and that they should not be the subject of guessing any political parties, either coalitions or local self-government and objectively suffer, because they are extremely important to the education and education system. Various research shows that the greater the coverage of children in preschool institutions, the better the results in the later years. You know, we have that preschool prep program, it pays for the Republic, and the rest is at the level of local self-government. So objectively, we'll see that the system position of preschools improves in the next period. I'm not going into finance right now, how many budgets, how many other things, but we're going to systemically settle that question, not to be the subject of guessing, but to know exactly how much money they're taking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16636	Zlata Djeric has the right to be asked. I ask the MPs who have a misunderstanding about how the session is going to take a word. Everyone has a right to have a word. The MP asked a question concerning one of the topics, and there was also a question for the minister of enlightenment he gave the answer to. We do not have the opportunity for replicas or for violations of the Rules of Procedure, but we all have the right to report for the word and ask the present representatives of the Government and the Prime Minister of whatever is involved in the topics that today's session is dedicated to. Here you go, MPs, you've got three minutes for two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16637	I thank Mr. Minister for his comprehensive response and respect his efforts. He is indeed a minister who knows the realtor that he deals with, but the essence of what I said was not to call the Ministry of Education, nor the Minister (although I tell him once again, I thank him for his comprehensive response), but I cited it as an example, because Vojvodina is in a specific position, and one of its even more specific positions is opening up. And let me tell you, at this moment ahead of us, in this global economic crisis and everything that's going on, we are facing something, that in Vojvodina, the only regular incomes are receipts coming from the budget of the Republic of Serbia -- education, health care, police and more. If we insist on what is being promoted by the statutes, and if that faucet, to say figuratively, turns out – will Vojvodina be in a better or worse position? It's a question first of all for Vojvodina, and I think, as a Serbian woman from Vojvodina, she'll be in a worse position. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16638	Does the representative of the SPS-JS Group want a word? No, I don't. ) Does the representative of the Progressive Group want a word to Serbia? Yeah. ) The word has been delivered by MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the parliamentary group Forward Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Progressive Group of Serbia has prepared a new proposal for a session at which we would listen to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the measure of economic policy, new taxes, reduction of local self-government financing at the IMF's request due to a possible credit arrangement that would last, I think, by April 2011. In fact, these measures, which will reflect the population's standards, are expected to last until the end of the crisis, since the government has imagined that each salary is more than 12,000 dinars of luxury to be taxed. I would like Mr Cvetkovic and these experts from G17 plus, of course, Mr Djelic, of course, and Mrs Dragutinović to see how the IMF sees the luxury border in Serbia at 12,000 dinars of monthly earnings. With regard to these two topics sought by the two parliamentary groups, of course we have an extremely negative view of everything you do by working with The Hague tribunal at all costs. I'm asking the Minister of Justice if she's ever thought of proposing to our judiciary that she renew all proceedings conducted in The Hague, that our judges judge according to the judgments in The Hague. Let's see if our judges would embarrass themselves just as the judges who have no responsibility, who have no neighbors, no relatives, no friends. How are you sleeping? Do you sleep peacefully, Mr. Ljajic and everyone else, when you extradited 44 Serbian citizens to The Hague in one way or another? Their fate is certain, not uncertain. It's kind of bad. How is it in your soul and how do you still manage to stay in that business? Under the statutes of Vojvodina, Mr. Cvetkovic, I have a clear question for you. Tell me if you're up for the Duke's statute.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16640	The answer wants to be given by Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16641	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Nikolic, I sleep quite peacefully. I have not broken the laws of this country. I did nothing that would lead this country into an unfavourable or worse position than it was. On the contrary, we have done what is our legal obligation. If you had been in power, you would have done the same, no matter how much you are now speaking against co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It is true that a large number of citizens, Serbian citizens, have been handed over to the tribunal, that Serbia itself has been able to end co-operation with that court and that this will create all the assumptions that further international and political pressure will be freed, at least in this matter. I think it is clear to you that the same thing cannot be tried twice, that we have received only one procedure transferred from the tribunal to Serbia's judiciary, that in some other proceedings which were conducted in the phase of the investigation, a significantly higher number of cases are being handled before domestic judicial authorities. Otherwise, 276 people have been prosecuted before domestic judicial authorities for crimes committed in the war crimes domain. While I'm here, let me answer a few questions asked by MP Vladan Batic. Of course, this is one of the important topics we discussed yesterday with Prosecutor Brammertz. We have made what has already been said several times by several representatives of the Serbian government about the fact that the tribunal had and used double arches, that some of the verdicts that were brought before that court, from our point of view, are both unfair and inexplicable, but that it cannot stop our further co-operation with The Hague court. The verdict brought against Haradinaj is still not justifiable. The tribunal's prosecution filed a complaint. We will deliver, as you also delivered, while you were minister of justice, a large number of documents for the case. After the first-degree verdict, we continued co-operation in the area of the delivery of plenty of documents that will confirm and serve as evidence of the crimes committed by Ramush Haradinaj in Kosovo. As for the second issue, related to, allegedly, his participation in a peacekeeping mission in Uganda, we contacted everything from the UN to the EU, and no one had any idea what it was about. It is obviously a newspaper article and the text of a reporter who was in Kosovo as a reporter. That's what he suggested, and it's all that's left of it. As for the government’s abolisation of the Dutch battalion, of course we did not discuss it, nor did we consider the issue in the government. We believe there is no shortcut for this topic to end, except for Ratko Mladic being extradited to the tribunal as soon as possible. Nothing else will change the position of the Netherlands, both because of its internal political opportunities and because of the remorse that this battalion has for the crime that took place in Srebrenica. Any change in the policy of the Netherlands would require parliamentary consent, which they in any way want to avoid. These are the reasons why the Netherlands will persist in its position. That is why we are focused on resolving the problem by handing over Mladic, not by looking for some other alternative roads, which would certainly be both good and desirable, but I am afraid they are not realistic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16642	The word was sought by Vladan Batic, he has the right to ask questions, and then the word has been made by Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic. It's three minutes time for questioning, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16643	Mr Ljajic, I believe in your willingness to hand over Ratko Mladic, but I am not sure there is any political will, at least the majority, even in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that Mladic will be extradited. And we need to go to the event. The Netherlands will not allow our EU accreditation because of its internal political opportunities. I've said it before, but I'll say it again, because of the members of the government present and for the public. You know that the Dutch battalion of Uprenophora was responsible for the protected zone, for the protection zone of the Potocari. There were about 3,500 Bosniaks in that area. An agreement was made with the Bosnian Serb forces to evacuate those from the protected area of Potocari through Bosnian Serbs under the leadership of Ratko Mladic. Instead of evacuating, all men were taken to the site and shot. There's been a major political debate in the Netherlands. He followed the report, and on the basis of the report, the Dutch government fell in 2002. The Dutch battalion had 1,500 professional soldiers. They're back. Seventy percent left the army. Ten of them committed suicide. Most of them became social cases. It's the internal political problem of the Netherlands. One government gesture or, better, Parliament, to bring one political resolution, again symbolic, as a gesture of Serbia's goodwill, which means that we are taking responsibility for the crime on Srebrenica and thus abolising the Netherlands, because it did not even perform as a battalion of the Netherlands, but Uprenofor, under the flag of the United Nations. Whether it's going to cause a positive reaction to the Netherlands, we don't know that, but I think we should do that, let's say we went through that moral catharsis and admit that some of our countrymen are responsible for the crime in Srebrenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16644	The answer wants to be given by the Prime Minister Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16645	Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of the Duke's statutes and the government's relationship with him, I would first of all like to say that the document that the government is preparing is actually a law on the transfer of jurisdiction and that is the key link between the government and the statute. The document was made in some approximately final version, and there will be some changes to be made. A few days ago, I handed him over to Mr. Bojan Pitiæ. I expect the document to be discussed a little more and after that debate will go towards a fixed document. To the specific question of what my position is, my view of the document that the Government is working on is positive and will be completely positive, with all the documents that come out of it and from the debate in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16646	The right to three minutes and a request shall be given by MP Tomislav Nikolic, so Minister Rasim Ljajic will respond to the question of MP Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16647	I was just about to prepare myself to speak to Mr. Ljajic, otherwise to a friend I greatly appreciate, saying that I don't appreciate too much when a man hides sedition and so speak to me, when there is Mr. Prime Minister. I really can't understand, sir, that you run a country without understanding my question or that you underestimate me that I didn't understand your answer. I specifically asked you what your determination is according to the Duke's statute, and you're telling me you're positively determined by the law you wrote. That's rude. What are you coming to this congregation for? That you should insult the Messengers of the people and humiliate them? You could have told me - what do you care what my opinion is? Then I'd say I care if you're the Prime Minister. I'm not asking ordinary citizens, I'm asking the Prime Minister what will happen next to that Statute of the Vojvodina. I suppose it's up to you, Mr. Prime Minister. Or should I ask Boris Tadic? He won't come here to say it. You, Mr. Ljajic, the presummation of the cowardice you gave me, no more. How do you know what I'd do if I was in government when you were working with The Hague? Now I'm telling you, I would not humiliate my country and my citizens if I were to work with the UN tribunal this way. The fact that no one but you has accepted the responsibility to sign extradition orders tells you clearly about the attitude of those involved. You're exposed to that pillar, but you wanted it. I think you even enjoy the fact that you're the one who signed those orders, and what he refused, say, Vuk Draskovic and everyone else to whom it belonged. Because I don't think that's a social issue, that's a very serious question. Maybe the Prime Minister was supposed to be the president of that body of yours that he's working with the UN tribunal. You took that responsibility, don't throw it at me what I'd do. I would certainly behave more honorablely and morally than this government. Mr. Cvetkovic, you've once again convinced me that you're really not wondering about anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16648	Minister Rasim Ljajic has the right to respond, so Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16649	First I'll give my answers to MP Batic. First of all, I want to say that no one, not even in the Netherlands, questions whether there is a political will to arrest Mladic. The problem is that the Dutch believe that Serbia will implement the obligation only if it is under constant international pressure, more specifically the pressure of the European Union, but the question of whether Serbia really wants to hand over Mladic after Karadzic's extradition is absolutely no longer being asked. That's the answer to this second part of your question. If we were to try to look for any alternative path, it would be seen as a lack of political will, such as seeking other solutions and roads to get to the European Union, not by handing Mladic out practically freed Serbia from further international pressures. And precisely, if we were to raise this issue in any way, if we were to abolize the Dutch battalion, it would be seen in the Netherlands itself as avoiding the achievement and realization of that basic goal, which is that Mladic would be extradited. So we wouldn't do anything with it, but on the contrary, I'm afraid we'd just open up a new controversy and a new dilemma whether there's this political will that you're talking about. Mr. Nikolic, I'm not saying you're not an honorable and moral man. I didn't say that you would do this in a more honorable and moral way than we do. We do what the law tells us to do. We estimate the situation in which the country is located and, if we hadn't done what we did, the international position and any other position of this country would be far worse than it is today, even though today is not in the best position. Until we complete full co-operation with The Hague tribunal, we will face many problems that no other country in the region has faced.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16650	Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16651	I have no intention, nor will I ever descend to any personal level, but I want to stick to the facts and answer the question, no matter what I think of this or that. The fact is that the answer I have given the following is that I will not accept it, but I will have a positive opinion and stand behind all the documents behind which this assembly stands, where I have meant not only the law that the Government is doing and which I know from the very beginning, but also the statute that will be supported by this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16652	Justice Minister Snezana Malovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16653	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to answer the parliamentary question concerning the repeat of proceedings against our citizens who have been indicted before the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague. On the basis of the Constitution, the law and the general rules of international law which say that it cannot be tried twice, I am telling you that as a minister of justice, I have not considered repeating the procedure. However, I will also tell you that a few days ago I received information about facts that largely shed a different light on a verdict that was handed down at the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague. I have taken certain steps in co-operation with the war crimes prosecutor's office and the National Council for Co-operation with the tribunal. We will try to make sure that these facts are perceived and, if there are opportunities, there is a repeat of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16654	The word comes from MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16655	Mr. Prime Minister, for the second time today, we are seeing each other on issues like this where the government is giving answers within 180 minutes. Last time we regretted coming to that session, because it was organised in this way, Mr. Prime Minister, although it was scheduled by representatives of the ruling coalition, those who support you in parliament, to disabling the right of the opposition MPs to ask you serious and provocative questions. Instead, you were, for as long as it took, served questions by those who support you to make your own promotion and one extended press conference that day. Unfortunately, today won't go any better either. In fact, the current course of what you've done so far shows exactly the manner in which questions are answered, the order that the ministers have served previously certain questions, which you have probably already agreed on in advance, and about how today's session is going. The worst, and I was also on the written path, Mr. Prime Minister, also warned the President of Parliament, the two topics that are on the agenda today - the issue of The Hague tribunal and the consequences of co-operation and the manner in which the AP Vojvodina takes place and the question of the statutes - are two topics that are brought together today into one session, although they are proposed by two parliamentary groups, different in size, and although there are two topics that are completely different in their content and importance. It's simply how the idea of this thematic session dissuades itself. In spite of all this, we wanted to participate in all this and ask certain questions, believing that the topics would not be joined in 180 minutes of your answers, because if this were to be done in the future, then seven or eight parliamentary groups could set their own subject, so that everything would be combined in 180 minutes of your answers. And if the answers go the way you started doing it, with a mere self-velocity, by making certain ministers appear, even those who should cover their ears because of the fact that their state secretaries last week, when they convinced the judiciary that they should not act in working disputes that have been initiated by those who are damaged and who are asking for money that their employers owe them to survive, acting on the principle of kidnapping the poor and making the rich. That's your whole logic. That's why we can't participate in these parliamentary matters. We don't see how we would communicate with you without giving you a chance to create an extended press conference here and disabling all of us. Please, the chairman, there is no need for you to give your word to those who have signed up by the DSS parliamentary group, and you are welcome to speak to yourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16656	For the third time during this session, the MPs give instructions to the chairman to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is not possible and which will not be done. I pray that the political views of the parliamentary groups do not interfere with the obligation of members of the Rules of Procedure to regulate the course of the session with a special topic, which is a session that we all attend together, for which MPs have applied and if there is knowledge and will to ask questions, there are also representatives of the Government to answer them, and MPs who are dissatisfied with the quality of the response ask questions and that all together there is good information for those for whom we are all sitting in this room, which are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Does the G17 plus MP want the word? No, I don't. ( ) MEP Groups of ZES? Yeah. ) The word is wanted by the People's Messenger Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16657	I think what I will now ask is part of the ruling coalition's strategy, but also what burdens all MPs and all citizens of Serbia. It seems to me that my question will deviate from what my previous colleague said, because of the fact that the SPO has, in terms of decentralisation, regionalisation and politilateral development, its view of this problem, and it seems to us to be a fundamental problem that Serbia today needs to address comprehensively and systematically. The fact is that, according to many statistics, the relationship between developed and undeveloped municipalities in Serbia, according to some data 1:15, according to some 1:21, according to some even 1:23, but also without these data, if we travel to Serbia and we all travel, we see that the situation regarding demographic discharge, primarily eastern and southern Serbia, is dramatic. A similar situation in the Rasko area, and a poll, almost published in the influential daily list, shows that more than 90% of students from the interior of Serbia from Belgrade's universities do not plan to return to the province due to the fact that they do not have their perspective. This issue is also part of the issue regarding the powers and statutes of Vojvodina, due to the fact that the SPO considers that the entire government and resolution ministers should work as quickly as possible to systematically adopt a strategy for equal regional development, because of the fact that certain parts of Serbia literally die away from us. One village in the vicinity of Rijeka, in Šumadia, where I come from, is almost empty, and several villages are with a small number of inhabitants. It is not only the specificity of Šumadija and eastern Serbia, the problems of this type are also present in Serbia's European locomotive, in today's Vojvodina. Therefore, the SPO believes that, in line with our programme definition and what tells us about the state of affairs in Serbia, Serbia's government needs to adopt a comprehensive strategy of equal regional development as soon as possible, that the state of development and the lack of development of Serbian municipalities reduces to a reasonable extent. In that part, of course, the government has done a lot of things, drafts of some laws have been passed, a law on the powers of Vojvodina will be passed, the Statute of Vojvodina will be passed, but it seems to me that most of the concerns caused by the Vojvodina statute have come from the fact that we have not adopted a strategy of equal development throughout Serbia and decentralisation throughout Serbia, and then one good intention is misused. Thank you. This is a question, first of all, for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16658	Verica Kalanovic, minister, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16659	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the biggest topics in Serbia these days, in addition to the economic situation, the topic of regionalisation. With all due respect to everyone who deals with it, regionalisation is a subject that is very little known in our country, because our country in the previous period was largely centralistic, with asymmetric regions. At this point, we have one essential autonomy defined at NUTS level 2 statistical methodologies as a region, which is a region of Vojvodina, which has an administrative mark; we also have another province, which also has administrative borders, however, essentially does not have all those attributes of the region and ties to the Republic that economically developed and administrative regions have to do with the territory of the whole country; and we have one large part of Serbia - Belgrade and so on. Central Serbia, which has no regionalisation whatsoever. The question arises whether because we do not have legislation or the basis for regionalisation in central Serbia, we will prevent what is a fact, which is that jurisdiction must be brought down to the needs of citizens. If we look at today's law on determining the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina, which, of course, arises from the statutes and which I am also deeply in favour of, we see that something more than half of the people who discuss it are discussing as a law on the transfer of jurisdiction. And I'd say it's a law on determining jurisdiction and putting down competence to solve the problems and interests of citizens in the territory they live in. As a member of the task force, I deeply advocated that anything that does not endanger Serbia's territorial unity, anything that is not contrary to the country's strategies and laws in general, be brought down to the level of the region, the administrative region of Vojvodina. When it comes to the second part of Serbia and the direct response to Mr Chikiriz, the Equality Regional Development Strategy was adopted in 2007, for the five-year period 2007-2012. The strategy defines the adoption of the Action Plan, and one of the first stages of the Action Plan is the adoption of a law on regional development. The Regional Development Act, as a roof, also contains a part relating to more even regional development. A more balanced regional development is not possible without measures and incentives. The measures and incentives represent one particular part of the Regional Development Act. Of course, at this point neither the Government nor the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development, whose competence is to deal with economic development, as an integral, and a more even regional development, as part of it, wait for legislation to be passed. The measures are country programmes and instruments which are currently focused on developing underdeveloped areas. To remind you, these programmes are defined through the Fund for Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Development, through the NIP programme for 100% support for infrastructure development, through the Ministry of Agriculture's rural development programme, through the Siepa programme to encourage direct investment of domestic and foreign areas. These measures and incentives are still being implemented today in the territory of undeveloped municipalities. Also, this year was the first methodology that...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16660	Five minutes is at your disposal. Thank you. Since the list of representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups has been exhausted, we are moving to the list in order of MPs, and according to reports to ask parliamentary questions concerning two current topics of this special session. The first to be reported on the list is Parliamentarian Balint Pastor. You have the right to ask another question. You don't want to. National MP Zlata Djeric. Do you want to ask a question? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Zlata Djeric, and after that, MP Cedomir Jovanovic has the right to ask questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister, I have a brief question for you. What did you mean by "substantial autonomy of the Vojvodina"?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16662	Minister Verica Kalanovic has the right to answer the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16663	I meant all those responsibilities in all of my importance, which are related to meeting the needs of the people of Vojvodina. So I didn't mean any more than it was defined by the jurisdiction law, I didn't mean the violation of the laws of the Republic of Serbia and the destruction of territorial integrity. But I certainly did mean new institutions and better functioning of institutions related to raising standards, meeting certain needs, for closer relations with citizens and, ultimately, related to a more efficient administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16664	National MP Konstantin Arsenovic wants to ask questions. First, it has the right to question three minutes' worth of Parliamentarian Zlata Djeric, as a right used by the minister's reply, and then MP Konstantin Arsenovic, the same question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16665	Thank you very much for your answer. I welcome that you said you did not support the undermining of Serbia's territorial integrity, but I am interested in one thing you mentioned. From what you've answered, you can see, of course, that there will be a shower and darkness, which would be said, of course, new administrations. I already mentioned in my first address the issue of budget and funding. That new administration is something that scares us a little bit in Vojvodina. We would like to have information on what resources this new administration will be financed from, given the situation we are entering. This is not a meaningless question, given that in Vojvodina the economy on its knees and agriculture is almost destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16666	Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16667	I'm going to be very brief on this matter of funds. The main thing is that budgets contain funds to perform certain functions. If a function is moved, then those funds that are already in the budget move. It's kind of a principle, so it's not about extra funds. At this point, however, we do not have clear calculations, and it is likely that a special law will be required to define the issue of material work. This is about determining jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16668	National MP Konstantin Arsenovic has the right to ask two questions for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16669	Since I didn't get an answer to my question, I'm guessing it might be legally stupid. I'm not a lawyer, so I'm allowed to ask myself a stupid question, but I guess there's a smart answer. I asked Račka and Walker for the simple reason that I want the truth to finally be present, because we know that everything that happened in Kosovo is a result of lies. Therefore, let me rephrase the question if it cannot be answered to my specific question – what will we do to make the truth about Kosovo finally come full? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16670	Does MP Cedomir Jovanovic want to ask a question? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16671	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the People, representatives of the Government, we will practically give up any conversation in such a humiliating atmosphere and further deepening of the problem. Mrs. Comic, as vice-president of parliament who is chairing this session, is bound by at least a function. What is it like to ask questions about the status of the Vojvodina in such an atmosphere, and what are the answers to these questions? What is the objective of this session, should these problems be deepened or given adequate answers to address the situation? That's very irresponsible. And what the Prime Minister has now done, who left this debate after less than an hour, speaks enough about the state's attitude towards the citizens, according to Vojvodina, towards us here in Belgrade and towards everyone. Mr. Ljajic, the issue of The Hague is very serious. I think the other MPs started it out of motives that aren't close to ours, but what we're interested in right now is actually the answer to this problem of the absence of a clear strategy, because it seems to us that we're being brought into a dead corner. It's unacceptable to leave everything to the case. It is obvious that the state has searched for years and failed to, with many problems slowly overcoming, to answer this final question, i.e. Arrest those wanted by The Hague tribunal. What does the state do to convince the international community that it is doing its best and what is it that we, as politicians, can do to convey such a message? In November of last year, we received virtually support for a resolution appealing to the Netherlands parliament and asking it to unblock Serbia's European integration process despite the fact that not all indictees were arrested, precisely because of the belief that Serbia was there to do its best to meet its international obligations. It is true that some other countries have come across this kind of understanding, that they are allowed to integrate and open the European door despite the fact that they have not arrested all those who were obliged to arrest. That's where I think of Croatia. But what does our country do to get one such opportunity? Where's our strategy, what other move can we take? It's a completely unexplainable situation where we're in, where we're wasting our time, we tap the place, and that's how we miss that big opportunity. I think the government is obliged to tell us and that you are in a position to at least point to the need to define that strategy. Let's see what the opposition can do, what the parties in power can do, what the cultural public can do, all those who have their position in Serbia and the world, so that the situation changes and that others begin to trust us.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16672	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16673	There are two ways to convince, above all, Holland and partly Belgium, which is more supportive of the Netherlands than at its point of view or, rather, Belgium is halfway between other EU and Dutch members. One is to finish the job and thus close this Hague story, and that is the most effective, best, most effective and secure way to get this story done as soon as possible. The second, which I do not say will be so effective, is the one that you, I think, demonstrated best last year when in the European Parliament at one meeting, as a representative of the opposition, spoke precisely about the state's readiness to complete co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the necessity to unblock Serbia's path towards the EU. If in such a way Serbia's votes came from both the government and the opposition, the non-governmental sector, I'm not saying it would certainly change the position of the Netherlands, but it would greatly facilitate this country's efforts to get this story over with as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16674	The right to further questions comes from MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16675	Mr. Ljajic, it's true, it's one example and I don't think it's lonely. All those who were in a position to talk about these problems pointed to the great importance of continuing European integration and criticised this policy of conditions for Serbia, since, despite all the problems, our society has been showing not only a great desire all along, but also concrete progress in adopting these values that bring us closer to Europe itself. But I'm asking you a very clear question. The government needs to define one strategy. We are on a week marking ten years of Serbia's bombing. The way it was done returned Serbia in 1999. It is not disputed that Serbia's bombing was a crime, but we need to understand the need to understand that in 1999 as the last stage in which Serbia paid the price for an irresponsible policy that had put its account to some others in previous years. Other cities were bombed before Belgrade. We have been in such a big misunderstanding with the world, that it has become legitimate to bomb Serbia, kill citizens in the streets, violate international law, and we cannot ignore the fact that at least we are as responsible as those who have decided to treat us the way we have treated everyone else. Stopping life in Serbia at 12.00 hours of sirens, organising memorials and academias where, practically, this irresponsible policy and running away from responsibility and facing the past is the creation of an atmosphere where you are lonely in your intention. It is not Ratko Mladic your personal problem, nor is the BIA's personal problem. Do we know that the precondition for transforming our society is not only to capture Mladic but also to understand what was wrong in the 1990s? Mladic is the result of a tragic system of values, both Mladic and Karadzic, and we will face the fact that one day ion will be the past and that we will be the hostages of that policy that is passed down from generation to generation. We were obliged to organise this year's encounters with those we were in such a tragic misunderstanding in the 1990s, so we could invite representatives of the countries with which we were at war here in Belgrade, so let's say: people, after ten years, here's a new reality. We've developed new relationships with them, so on these new grounds we're building confidence that the future will be better than the past. We lost a lot before Kosovo, but Kosovo is the consequence. We can run from it, but we won't escape. Kosovo is the result of our internal incompetence, the mistakes we have made, and it must be clear to everyone today. We can keep quiet about it, but there's not much point in a policy that one week gives anti-discrimination law, and another week thinks she gave too much, so she'd come back to balance. I think that's what we need to talk about today. We need this strategy. There's a feeling that we need to abolize the Dutch from some responsibility. Serbia has been convicted before the International Court of Justice as a country that has not sanctioned those who have committed genocide and which has not prevented genocide. We are not responsible for the genocide itself, but what have we done by these two views of the International Court of Justice? Nothing. Meanwhile, military, police and state representatives have been convicted in The Hague of a criminal enterprise. We ignore it. It cannot in itself remain behind us by the fact that someone has delivered the verdict and thus put an end to the 1990s. That's what we're carrying inside us. That is why we need this strategy, to go out and say what we can do to make Serbia different (President: Three minutes). To make Mladić feel unnatural. He is now much closer to the character of Serbia than anyone from the government who should arrest him or you personally. You feel here on a foreign field, not him.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16676	The answer wants to be given by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, so Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16677	I will try to answer MP Arsenovic's question about what the state of Serbia will do to make the truth about Kosovo known. Although you have tried to formulate it from a legal point of view, I will tell you that, unfortunately, it is more political than legal issue, but I am not saying that the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia who are dealing with the detection and processing of criminal acts, primarily war crimes that took place in the KIM area, do not. The war crimes prosecutor's office, unconnected to which citizenship, the perpetrator or victim, has initiated a series of proceedings in previous years. There are also judgments for some of them. Currently, a major campaign has been launched by the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, along with the Ministry of Justice and other state authorities, in connection with the trafficking of human organs in the KIM area as a result of all those events that followed in 1998 and 1999. To say that we were able to get out of the criminal process itself and draw attention to various international forums, so right now the Council of Europe is discussing it, it has appointed a special rapporteur, Mr. Dick Marty, who needs to make a report and try to shed light on this event. The president of Serbia also spoke about the same issue at the Security Council a few days ago. When he visited Italy, his Italian counterpart, Mr. Alphaan, the minister of justice of the Republic of Italy, I also drew attention. That is what we will do in the future so that, as you yourself have said, the truth will come to light.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16678	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic, who answers further questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16679	I was talking about a state strategy based on one basic goal, that the remaining two indictees are located and extradited as soon as possible. It's the only and main strategy. What MEP Jovanovic was talking about is something that no doubt stands, it is a general political climate and ambience that we now have in society and as a consequence of the wars that are being waged, and as a consequence of sanctions and as a consequence of the current global financial crisis. I'm afraid we're slowly moving from this economic crisis to a wider social crisis. These are facts, and all these problems resulting from the crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia are now becoming even more manifest than they were, say, a few years ago. But at this point, as regards concrete co-operation with the tribunal, each of our other initiatives, primarily diplomatic, can be understood as the Foreign Ministry's initiative has been understood, to send an EU mission to determine whether there is a readiness in Serbia, the will to hand Mladic over to The Hague tribunal. I think you know that well. The initiative was seen as a circumvention of the prosecution, as a avoidance of responsibility, as another excuse for Serbia not to solve what is a key problem, which is to locate the remaining two Hague indictees. Therefore, nothing but the completion of co-operation will result, or it will not be certain that the EU will accept it as an argument that Serbia unblocks the European integration process. I fully agree with you that we have a political climate and an environment in a society that does not suit the country's goal, which is to become part of the EU, to accept the system of values that are in force in the EU, but until we have completed co-operation with the tribunal, we will not be able to finish that job either.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16680	MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16681	Mrs. Comic, Minister Ljajic, you have told one great truth. So far, in fact, any attempt to search for some kind of interpretation that would convince the international community, or above all the EU, that we are doing everything in this process of co-operation with The Hague tribunal has been seen as avoiding that obligation and searching for some kind of excuse and argument that should cover up our internal incompetence, impotence, etc. But what we're talking about is actually quite the opposite of these ad hoc initiatives, let's say the Foreign Ministry. At the moment we have lost touch with this Europe, especially at all touching points, the ministry invites representatives of the European Commission to a press conference because at that moment it occurred to the minister - that they come to Serbia and make sure that we do everything we can to catch Ratko Mladic. When Karadzic was arrested, we immediately reacted to the practical ratification of the SAA as the European Union's countermovement. Do you know what they told us? They said, "Why don't you catch the young man?" - We don't know where he is. - That's what you told us about Karadzic. The fact is, we are in conflict with Europe. Other countries also had that kind of problem that Serbia also has. Croatia, first of all. Practically identical. Gotovina, a hero who is suspected of being prone to arrest, and yet Europe finds its understanding of this Croatia and does not block the process of European integration. Why? Because Croatia had friends in the EU. Where are our friends? On what grounds can we create them? Can we create them, say, on the basis of the fact that they feel great responsibility for what we survived in 1999, that no one in Europe is happy that he bombed Serbia, that even the leaders who brought their countries into war with us did so first because they no longer knew what to do, and were not ready to acknowledge defeat before who they certainly had no right to do something like that, or were not allowed to agree to (we mean Slobodan Milosevic)? Here, ten years later, can we say that Serbia is different, so that in that Serbia we can find the potential for that kind of co-operation with the world that will allow us to understand that? There's no point in asking the world to come here with some commission and look under the table if it's in some cabinet of Mladic. We need that kind of support that we won't get unless we establish normal co-operation and we see how we can solve, along with that world, the problems we created ourselves, first of all. Are these problems in Kosovo, problems in relations with Croatia, problems in BiH, whether these are the problems that follow our European integration process through Serbia's unpreparedness to accept certain values, but all together, we have been pretending too long to finally expect that Europe to accept us as we accept us. Last week is the biggest counterservice Serbia could ever do for itself. From the sirens at 12.00 hours, which were, above all, to return Serbia to the psychosis in which it was in the past, not to show the state's honesty and willingness to recognise and respect the 1999 victims. No one is respected by this Serbia, nor by those who died in 1999, nor by millions who have disappeared for the past 200 years. Our land has been built on millions of lost human lives, and thus we have never shown any respect. (President: three minutes. ) Hiding behind the heroism of pilots, soldiers, behind the tragedy of civilians, is actually proof that here is still being thought in the way that was thought in 1999, that politics is still being assumed of every life and that, of course, life ends up losing that race. I repeat again - come out with a proposal, with an initiative. Not with criminal and legal character. With a political campaign. But not the D.A.'s office, the D.A. can't run a campaign. ..but let our country launch a reasonable campaign, in which people who are trusted will appear.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16682	The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic, not present. The People's Messenger Otto Kishmarton, and then the Messenger of Nenad Canak. People's MPs are asking about the order. According to the Rules of Procedure, members of the Progressive Serbia parliamentary group have also been given a list of 14 MPs registered to ask questions and you will be given an orderly list very soon. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16683	Thank you very much. I have a question for Minister Verica Kalanovic about Vojvodina's autonomy. She spoke earlier about the creation of a more effective state apparatus by means of greater autonomy and the adoption of the Statutes of Vojvodina. It is likely to increase the new Vojvodina state apparatus and the citizens of Vojvodina, in addition to paying the state of Serbia now, will have to pay the state apparatus in Vojvodina. I mean, as far as we're concerned in Vojvodina and other cities, in local self-government, but mostly in Vojvodina, we don't care if the money made in local self-government goes to Belgrade or Novi Sad. Our goal, the aim of the people of Vojvodina, is to keep most of the money made in the municipality, in this local self-government, citizens in that local self-government, not to finance future two state-owned appliances, two governments. Therefore, we cannot agree that the adoption of the new Statute of Vojvodina is necessary in order to increase and create a more efficient state apparatus in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16684	The word is made by Minister Verica Kalanovic, who wants to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16685	Dear MPs, please allow me to answer specific questions like this. The establishment of jurisdiction and the descent of jurisdiction at the level of an ordinary man is this middle level of government which represents the approximation of power to the needs of citizens. In particular, when you say - what will the administration do to improve the functioning of the apparatus (I would not say state apparatus, but function at all institutions that are either central, or medium, or local), I will use an example, which is more than obvious, which means introducing a middle level of government. In moments when a large number of investors appeared in the municipality of Indjija, Mayor Jesic addressed a series of requests to the Ministry of Education for changes in student profiles, changes in focus in secondary schools in the municipality of Indji. He was then talking about how it took him more than a year to get certain powers from the level of the Ministry of Education. We thought it wasn't possible and that it wasn't all as it was said, so then we saw that now that the town of Kragujevac has made demands, it also has to go through a rather complicated procedure. We have returned to what is obtained by determining jurisdiction and transferring it to the middle level. That things like that can be solved in a month. There is no better solution to the needs of those where the institutions that make decisions are close to the citizens. And the autonomy of Vojvodina is now aimed at adapting institutions to the needs of the citizens of Vojvodina, identifying these needs, identifying interest, in line with the republican strategies, in line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, as the middle level of the executive government.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16686	The right to ask questions, MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16687	If the Ministry of Education and other ministries are waiting for an answer for a year, that doesn't mean we have to create a new ministry, but the ministry should do better. It's probably bad work, if you wait a year to answer a question from local self-government. What I was saying was that our goal is to strengthen local self-government, not to create now a new mediator between it and the Serbian government. That's what happened before. I did for that, to strengthen local self-government, that we don't have to address everyone for it. We will now address the province, after which, and Belgrade. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16688	The People's Messenger Nenad Canak has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Aleksandra Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16689	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to linger on the fact that this statute is nonsense any longer. I wanted to ask you a few questions. First, Article 10. The constitutional law provides for the authorities and services of the AP Vojvodina to assume the competences provided for in the Constitution by the power of the new Statute and the law. The draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina mainly addresses issues entrusted by the Republic to the AP Vojvodina. So, I ask the question of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – why is the Constitution not respected and why is this law not set out which issues are of regional importance? Because only matters of regional importance can be considered the original jurisdiction of the province, while entrusted businesses, now entrusted with this next law, can be taken away and extended here. Therefore, this draft law laying down the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is, in practice, a draft law on the transfer of jurisdiction, trust in jurisdiction, not jurisdiction. The second question - the question of original income property is not defined. Article 7 says the assets of the AP Vojvodina, the way it is used and available, are regulated by law. If regulated by law, it means that every session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia can change that, therefore, Vojvodina does not own property. If you own something, then it can't be taken away from you something like that, but it must still be more strictly guaranteed somehow. And I'd like to ask one fundamental question, in fact the only one I really care about is the answer, so I'd like to ask one of the ministers present to answer me, given that Mr. Prime Minister left this meeting before the time, so I didn't have time to ask him a question that I was really interested in. The question is, what is "hazarding Serbia's territorial integrity", by definition by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Because every thing about Vojvodina's autonomy is always off the agenda, under the pretext that territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia should not be violated. I'd like to hear exactly what it is that threatens territorial integrity and sovereignty, so that we know that it cannot go beyond that line. So, since this is not defined, we are constantly in a position to be under territorial integrity and sovereignty practically undermining the will of the state apparatus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16690	The word is made by Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16691	I will try to answer the parliamentary question, but, before I approach it, let me just say a few sentences in general, how does the bill on the transfer of jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina go? We have one working version of the law that we delivered to the AP authorities, however, I simply want to explain how it happened. It was not exclusively created on the basis of the interventions of the task force that we here represent and the Secretariat for the legislation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but rather carried out numerous consultations of almost all the ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the province's secretariats. Some of the secretariats and ministries even concluded agreements on which jobs should be in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. We as a working group have formed this text, however, the text is not finished, the drafting of the text of the law is not finished. We expect an AP response and will certainly organise a meeting where, deeply convinced, the text of the law will be finalised, and before full consent is reached, the text will not be found at the cabinet's session. So our intensity is that there is complete agreement between the AP Vojvodina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia before the bill, as such, is defined in the government. In my personal name, and also in the name of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I can say that we are absolutely defined that Vojvodina is to have essential autonomy, to respect the constitutional principle of decentralisation and deconcentration of the government, to fully respect Article 12. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says the state government is limited to the rights of citizens to province autonomy. Also, the Constitution in Article 183 says what issues are of the province importance governed by this law. These are issues such as spatial planning and development, then agriculture, water, forestry, hunting, fishing, tourism, etc., not to quote a member of the Constitution. I think there's been a misreading of the work version of the Bill's proposal on the definition of original and trusted transactions. For certain points, it is said that they work as trusted businesses, other original transactions in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16692	The right to ask two questions has a People's MP, Nenad Canak.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16693	However, I would ask the question of what is a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia in the sight of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that we have a clear vision of what it is when it comes to the issue of the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina - what does that mean, without falling into this topic which is absolutely anti-constitutional and illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16694	Answering the additional question, Justice Minister Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16695	I was convinced that I answered you through the view of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina has, I will repeat, essential autonomy and respect the principle of decentralisation and deconcentration of power. I can't, or you have to give me a concrete example to answer about it, but I will tell you that there has been a certain exchange of views on whether the AP Vojvodina can pass laws or not. I think that this authority is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that everything else, which has less legal power than the law, can certainly be in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, if that's what you mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16696	The People's Messenger Nenad Canak wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16697	I apologize again, but I still didn't understand. The definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that Vojvodina gets essential autonomy? Did I understand you correctly? Intrinsic? Yeah. ) This is against the constitution, because it is clear in the Constitution that only the AP Kosovo has essential autonomy, and Vojvodina has only autonomy. So your pledge is counter-constitutional. I think the Constitution needs to be changed, but the government can't do that. That's the first one. Secondly, I cannot hear the answer to my simple question – what is a violation of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, after seeing the Government of the Republic of Serbia? So, what is it that cannot be talked about, after seeing the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to autonomy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16698	The word has a national emissary, Aleksandra Jankovic. (Employee Nenad Chanak, from the place: I want my question answered. ) National MP, asking questions involves a different question than the one asked before asking questions. So this is where we exhausted the dialogue in giving an answer. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Jankovic, and after that, MP Slobodan Maras.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16699	How important this topic is for the government, it is likely that the prime minister was more important to open the Car Fair than to stay here to answer a few questions. I think that, in the end, this and the meta debate – the debate on the debate, because as far as I know, the Statute of Vojvodina has been in the assembly procedure since 15 October and cannot become a part of the agenda. The questions come down practically to two. I don't know who's gonna answer from the government, because I'm saying the Prime Minister at the Car Fair is, but maybe someone will pass it on to him. First question - do you even read the letters of citizens? The second is – do you receive letters? Why? An open letter came from dozens of prominent people, 64 academics, university professors, cultural and public workers on 17 October 2008 and this letter was, more or less, directed, of course, to the hitch of the unconstitutional statute of Vojvodina that was proposed. Meanwhile, a petition was also made to check constitutionality and a statement by a network of 17 Serbian NGOs was organised, where more than 20 tribunes were actually asked to keep the statutes out of the assembly procedure before it and its constitutionality was declared by the Constitutional Court and, of course, by the citizens of Serbia in a democratic referendum. A third very important letter is a letter from the Sinode of the Serbian Orthodox Church. If it didn't turn out after the church interfered when something had already been passed, some law or proposal had been passed, the church had also intervened and sent a letter and the presidents of the Assembly, both to the prime minister and, of course, to the president of Serbia – to stop the further deployment of Serbia by practically making another state in its territory. Now, this - do you receive letters? It was about the information I practically got tonight. Do you know that Canada, as far as postal services are concerned, has confessed to Vojvodina? Here, on the official Canadian post office site, there is a possibility that you can send shipments via email to various international destinations. So you can send a shipment or a letter to Serbia, Kosovo and Vojvodina. Does this mean that Canada has practically prejudged your position on the status of the Vojvodina? So the question is, is there really behind this idea of the new Statute of Vojvodina hiding some greater autonomy for Vojvodina? Of course, the question is -- autonomy versus what (in relation to your own language, your own faith, your own nation? ). The constitution provides for sufficient autonomy for Vojvodina, and the statute you bring is unconstitutional and actually corresponds to secessionist models that have already been seen in Slovenia and Montenegro. So answer my question – does Canada prejudge your position? Of course, on the previous question – do you read letters?
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16700	The People's Messenger Slobodan Maras has the word, and then the Messenger Zoran Babic. Government officials have the right at any time to ask for a word and give an answer. I don't have any business opportunities to call.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16701	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was prepared to ask questions that primarily concern the Statute of the Vojvodina, more specifically the Law of Jurisdiction. Of course I also wanted to ask – where has the autonomy of Vojvodina been lost in the last three years, when will the proposal of the statutes and the law on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina be discussed in the Serbian Parliament? I also wanted to ask, are the ministers aware and how much the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the budget of the province of Vojvodina, is damaged because the final account of the NIS has been changed and who is responsible for it? But since I love Vojvodina so much, from which I come, I have no intention of humiliating her the way you humiliate her, that in this atmosphere we talk about such things. That's why, first of all, I would like to speak to Mr. Ljajic. You have just realized that what Cedomir Jovanovic said is true and that this atmosphere in which our country is located makes it impossible for us to join the EU. And for what? Because we had a case, when the Hague indictee Mr. Radovan Karadzic was arrested, at Serbia's Public Service, we didn't hear why he was arrested, which is why he was charged, but we listened to Dr. Dabic treat patients with a viscous treatment and where he liked to drink brandy and play geese. What we are interested in, Mr Ljajic, and we want a really concrete answer, for years we have heard that Ratko Mladic was here in 2001, there, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, and not a single word for that time, and the Hague prosecutor Carla del Ponte herself said she did not know where Radovan Karadzic was. Radovan Karadzic has been arrested. Explain to us, because indeed the public is a little confused, if we have listened for years to the trail of Ratko Mladic and that he is late for him, and for years we have not heard a word about where Radovan Karadzic is, how come we have arrested Radovan Karadzic, and we still argue that we do not know where Ratko Mladic is and we cannot arrest him? We are really afraid that there is a centre that also held Radovan Karadzic under his wing and that it also holds Ratko Mladic, that it makes it impossible for Serbia to meet the conditions it needs to join the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16702	Minister Rasim Ljajic wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16703	As you yourself have said, the prosecutor herself has repeatedly said that there is no information about where Radovan Karadzic is hiding and that, according to her data, he is somewhere on the three-way, or more specifically, moving on the link between Serbia - Bosnia - Montenegro. But there was never any precise data and information, except in one case, when an address was delivered to the authorities in Belgrade in 2004, where Radovan Karadzic was allegedly hiding. After that, analysis of the apartment was carried out. It was not safe to claim that he was in that place, but it was also not safe to deny that he was in that apartment. And that's the only information we've had about Radovan Karadzic. Before the arrest, he was located several months earlier. An identity check has been carried out, whether it really is Radovan Karadzic. The moment it was estimated that there was a minimum security risk of arrest, it was done. I really don't believe there's any center that hides the Hague indictees. That goes for Radovan Karadzic. Three people knew about the location he was hiding in. It doesn't mean that more people didn't know he was in Belgrade, but three people knew exactly where he was hiding, and more people knew that Radovan Karadzic was in Belgrade, but those people had nothing to do with some state structures. I'm not saying it has nothing to do with any structures, but it really didn't have any contact or communication with any state institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16704	National MP Slobodan Maras has the right to two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16705	I agree with you, Mr. Minister Ljajic, and I am deeply convinced that no institution, especially that institution whose head you're headed, has anything to do with hiding, or keeping in a basement and, later, with the directive for the last redundancy for those who have done certain things in our name and in the former republics of the common state. But I am also convinced that there are those whose interest it is never to find the remaining two Hague defendants. What is not in your favor, Mr. Ljajic, is the atmosphere we were talking about here today, which exists in Serbia. What Cedomir Jovanovic described in a very nice way instead of playing sirens at 12.00 hours, it would have been better if we had invited those who bombed us in 1999 and tried to find common language with them, to show them that Serbia had changed. Unfortunately, Serbia has changed a little. We must do everything to change the climate in this country and not to celebrate the alliances of war, or the Hague indictees, that we do not listen in any way to the cure, where the geese play, but to hear about the crimes they are accused of, that Serbia already faces the past once, because without it, of course, we will not be able to take any steps forward. We will no longer have questions, I suppose even on this subject, and especially on the subject that we have scheduled ourselves, about Vojvodina, means the law on the transfer of jurisdiction, and I think we've already explained that in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16706	The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, and after that, MP Zeljko Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16707	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, the question of the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina is a subject that you are skillfully using as a mask for the disastrous economic, existential and socially irresponsible policy that you are leading. How are you going to save jobs by introducing a new 6% salary tax of over 12,000 dinars? You have 12,000 dinars of luxury. You're announcing an increase in property tax. You're calling for us to all have to tighten the belt, everyone but you and your administration. You tricked Serbian citizens into getting 1,000 euros from selling public enterprises. In Kragujevac this year, Fiyat will assemble, not produce, a record 192 cars. Our children are being killed on the street. The workers are running out of work. And you, in the style of "the village burns, and the grandmother combs" to Serbian citizens, throws a new bone called - the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. I am Moravac, living in Vrnjačka Banja on the edge of the forest, and I will ask you – what does Vojvodina have that has no other corners of Serbia? Will Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina have better salaries, better jobs after the adoption of this statute? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16708	The word has been made by MP Zeljko Tomic, but he is not in the O.R. The People's Messenger, Aleksandra Jerkov, followed by the People's Messenger Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16709	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, before I begin to ask my question concerning the Statute of Vojvodina and the law on determining jurisdiction, I would like to give a suggestion to Minister Kalanovic. What you call an administrative region is called the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. It has existed since 1848, and with its full autonomy, the free will of its people has entered into the membership of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. For a time, she had legislative, executive and judicial authority, she was a constitutional part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so I ask that when you talk about regionalisation of Serbia, you also think about decentralisation, not just about the mere administration. Because when we look at the way we approach Serbia's regionalisation today, I don't think we should be surprised that, besides Macedonia, Serbia is the only country in Europe that doesn't have any regions. My question concerns the application, i.e. the start of the transfer of powers to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, given that it is Article 187. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been regulated which issues are of republican, regional and local importance, and the issues are said to be determined by law. Also, in Article 10. The constitutional law provides for the authorities and services of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina to assume the powers provided for in the Constitution by the entry into force of the new Statute and, pay attention, to the law governing matters of regional importance. My question is when Vojvodina will assume jurisdiction, given that this law, which was proposed, which was in the draft, as the minister said, does not determine what matters of the province, although in the statute, which you claim was the starting text for the creation of this law, almost every member begins by regulating issues of the province. So there is, in fact, the main discrepancy between the Duke's statutes and this draft of the law, so my question is whether you intend to propose recently and a law that will determine what matters of the province are. If so, when it will be, since the Vojvodina will only then be able to assume its jurisdiction and begin to carry them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16710	Minister Snezana Malovic wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16711	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to answer the previous question of the MPs and this last question. Why is the statute being passed? Because it's meant by the Constitution. So, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we adopted in 2006, predicts that the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina is being passed, but, of course, it requires the prior consent of this assembly. In order for the statute to enter into legal life at all, a law on the transfer of jurisdiction is required. What are the responsibilities of the province, the Constitution itself regulated in its Article 183. So, by this law, these powers are being worked out. As for the start of law enforcement, this is a question that we will regulate in accordance with the authorities of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. There are different opinions. Money is being made, of course, from the establishment of budget laws or budget rebalances. As I said, we will work this issue out and specify with representatives of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina and make a decision with common agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16712	The right to an additional question, MP Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16713	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this lapus Mrs. Malovic best outlines the real intention of the republican government when it comes to the autonomy of Vojvodina, which is, in fact, to blur the eyes of the so-called. The transfer of competences given by this law and by any subsequent law may be withdrawn. But I don't think you've answered this question, because it's in Article 183. The constitution itself says that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, are sorting out issues of regional importance in the areas... , so it's said in which areas, but there's no telling what these issues are of any importance to the province. What's more, in Article 177. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is said to determine matters of regional importance by law. My question is where is the law to determine what matters of the province are, since only matters of rural importance can be considered as original competences, and everything else - how they came and went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16714	Justice Minister Snezana Malovic wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16715	I don't know if you've had any insight into the working version of the bill made by the government. You say you did have insight. So every member of the work version explains what jobs are entrusted to. Other jobs are transactions that are in absolute jurisdiction to edit in the AP Vojvodina. Do you need a member who will particularly regulate it? We can do it that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16716	Alexander Jerkov's national emissary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16717	Yes, we think it is necessary for a member to regulate matters of regional importance, because it is solely, it will be the original jurisdiction of the province, and I hope you do not think that the original competences of the province are what this draft law does not define as a trusted jurisdiction, given that it is about giving opinions, sending members to a board of directors in which he does not have the right to vote. And for the illustration of the jurisdiction that you give to the province as a source, it should only be said that even the breeding plan of breeding savages in the territory of the AP Vojvodina must be done with the consent of the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16718	Minister Verica Kalanovic wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16719	Ladies and gentlemen, these days, the Statute of Vojvodina has raised many questions concerning the future arrangement of the Republic of Serbia. If we are discussing what competences are in the AP Vojvodina, it is perfectly logical to ask questions and what competences, with which funds there are southern Serbia, or eastern Serbia, Cačak, or Valjevo, etc. Then the question arises whether at this point we will open up issues that are also related to other relations in the territory of the whole of Serbia and what we really want the state to do. It's almost obvious that asymmetric regionalization is present at the moment. Vojvodina is not guilty because it requires a transfer, or a designation of jurisdiction, because this law defines both areas (defined and defined, defined and transferred, and one and the other terms are fully acceptable), but it also raises the question of what with further regionalisation. I have no intention of giving a speech on regionalisation in Serbia, nor do I consider myself too competent to bring up some new terms, but in answer to the question of administrative regions, I want to say what some European practice is right now. At the moment, economic regions are recognised, where certain territories, i.e. local communities and cities from these territories, have created economic regions, raising their economic development through regional development agencies. We also have some statistical regions, which are introduced to be absolutely accurate or, as far as possible, statistically accurate to measure certain indicators in one wider territory, so these are statistical regions, we all hear today that these are NUTS 1, 2, 3 etc. We are talking about administrative regions and it is clear what administrative regions are. If we look at these terms and this way divides according to standards when regions are concerned, the AP Vojvodina is an administrative region.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16720	The People's MP Miroslav Markicevic has the word, and after that, a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16721	Dear Vice President, at the end of this week, I'd like, on a matter I'd like to ask, to conclude a few facts. In this week's working week, we have a broken, unfinished session. It's about the area of justice, it's about choosing the Council, and it's over. Yesterday we had one session that was not held, and we know the cause and all MPs, opposition and ruling coalitions, united over the occasion. Today we have the same situation. So, I thank the ministers and ministers who came here, as I thanked them yesterday, but there is no Prime Minister here, so I am asking the essential question to you who are now running this session - what is the difference between yesterday and today? Don't think I don't have many raised questions that I really wanted to get an answer to, and I mean even more Serbian citizens. So, what is the difference between yesterday, where the National Assembly was united, rarely as yesterday, over the demeaning of the National Assembly yesterday, the belittled MPs. Come on, they're MPs, but they represent some citizens. What's the difference between yesterday and today? Same thing happens. We have a farce. For God's sake, we're asking some questions now, the ministers are going to answer what they like, and those questions they don't like or they don't know the answer, or maybe it's politically unprofitable for them right now and for their resolutions, they won't even answer. As the youth and sports minister will not, and it was asked by the Rules of Procedure a question three months ago, and it is not the only one who will not answer. What's the point of sitting like this, then? And just so you don't think I wasn't getting ready for this subject, which is the Duke's statute, I have a few questions. Why are the talks on the adoption of laws which are transferred from state authorities to the province's authorities secret? Why are there too many secrets in this country when it comes to government work? Just to remind the citizens of Serbia, the Kovacevic case -- secretly, the law on the transfer of jurisdiction to the province's authorities -- secretly. Why isn't there a public debate about it? Negotiations with the IMF - secret. Will these statutes of the Duke's wartime military invalids live in the territory of the Vojvodina be spared this 25% reduction? What about the common people? What good does an ordinary citizen have? Do you know what use it is, Madam Minister? The one in Kovin, where local elections are located, took him 30-40 minutes to Belgrade, and now has to go to Novi Sad if, for example, he wants to take a prescription or some medical report. It's a practical benefit from this. And if the authorities don't, I want to remind all citizens of Serbia, behind every policy, whatever it is, there's an economic interest. Here is the economic interest of oligarchy and minority in Vojvodina. Just to remind you of the Federation of BiH, the other entity, they now know neither how many parliaments they have, nor how many ministers, nor how many MPs they have completely bankrupted. So where's our money? Will all Serbian citizens finance the AP Vojvodina government? It is few that the President of the Vojvodina Executive Council, now wants to be the Prime Minister of Vojvodina. These are the real things you need to answer here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16722	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic, and after that, MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16723	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, I will ask three questions. I'm saying this information is working to mark the time and know how much I'm going to speak for this pay phone right now. Before I even ask those questions, I would like to draw your attention to something that I noticed while listening to the previous speakers, while listening to questions and the minister's answers. It is characteristic of this government that, say, issues such as the issue of The Hague and as the issue of the Vojvodina have obviously touched points. So something that can't have anything in common, in this case there is, so today we can really discuss issues about The Hague and issues about the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Why? Because obviously there is no fundamental, true will to resolve the issue of The Hague, and there is no real will to address the issue of the autonomy of the Vojvodina. Now to go around the issue of The Hague, we know how it goes, how we're chasing these Hague fugitives, how we stood up, and especially when someone from the world comes and asks, where is this young man? - Well, that's how we looked for him, so we can't find him... I think a serious state really needs to wonder what it's like to have organs and institutions that can't find two people. So, I'm not going to move that question. However, it is obvious that there is no will to resolve the autonomy of the province of Vojvodina, as the constitution that has been adopted foresees essential autonomy for one province, and does not foresee that for the province of Vojvodina. It's interesting this ministerial decline, because we've heard twice today from two different ministers who spoke about this fundamental autonomy of Vojvodina, so I don't know if they're competent to even work in that law-making task force when they don't know what the Constitution says about this Vojvodina autonomy. So why humiliate this Vojvodina, why was the government not able and prepared from October to this day to act on the Vojvodina, which had already had to, because of the Constitution, to consider this assembly, so that it could ratify the Duke's statute? A few months have passed, we don't have the statutes on the agenda yet, and there's been words-- today, tomorrow, in the month, in two... We still don't know when. (President: three minutes. I'm going to ask three questions now, so that's why I mentioned it when I went out for the pay phone. So, this law on the jurisdiction of the Vojvodina is also... (I allow everyone to have their own opinion, and so is the way to expose and use time, and this is my way. ) Therefore, the Law on the jurisdiction of Vojvodina is obviously very problematic for this government since it cannot be reached on the agenda, it cannot be born, and obviously there are some problems. The main problem is financing, funding the original powers of Vojvodina, and financing the transferred responsibilities. That's what the core autonomy of the Vojvodina represents. So funding, fiscal autonomy, that's what determines whether or not these responsibilities of the province will be essential. In the press, we could read that certain laws, special laws, have to be passed in order for these powers to be realised. So here you need to pass a few laws. My first question is: will the law on the financing of the original powers of the province of Vojvodina be passed and, if it will, will the law on the type and the amount of original income to finance the competences of the Vojvodina be passed? The second question is – will it be passed and, if it will, when will the law that determines how the work entrusted to the province of Vojvodina will be financed? The third question, within which I will ask a question, is it – will the law on public property also be passed? Does the government know that by 31 December 2008 she was obliged to comply with all laws contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? One of these laws is the law on assets owned by the Republic of Serbia, which is why Vojvodina does not have its property. If Vojvodina doesn't have its own property, if the Duke's jurisdiction law does not provide for how all the powers of the Vojvodina will be financed, there is no essential autonomy. So now that I'm asking these questions, I'm essentially not expecting answers. I think these are rhetorical questions, because the answers we received today on the questions asked were not essential answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16724	Minister Snezana Malovic wants to give an answer, and MP Miroslav Markicevic is asking a word for further questions. Someone has to give you an answer so you can get the right to an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16725	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as regards the bill on the transfer of jurisdiction to the AP Vojvodina, my view was that this law should be done in a quality way, that it should not be done quickly at the expense of quality, that for all issues for which there is a possibility provided by law and by the Constitution to transpose and trust the AP Vojvodina, it should be done and done. It is my personal position, as a citizen of Serbia, but certainly as a member of the government. With regard to this bill, we have also considered financing issues, and we have come to the conclusion that further work and a special act are needed to deal with this. They'll be joining the bill very soon. There is already co-operation of our Ministry of Finance with the Regional Finance Secretariat. I expect that we have this text soon and that it will also be found in a congregation debate. As for the issues of how trusted businesses will be financed, it has already been governed by the State Administration Act and these transactions are financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. As far as questions are concerned when a law on public property will be passed, the work version of the law has been drawn up and is held in public debate. A proposal for a property law was also made from the Justice Ministry's point of view and is held in public debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16726	The right to two enquiries has a National MP, Miroslav Markicevic. Time is at your disposal for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16727	Dear Vice President, since you haven't even given me an answer to some questions, although the ministers should be answering today, but you probably don't, and nobody knows the answer to the question – what happens when ministers don't want to answer questions? As far as I know, there are no stupid questions, there are only smart answers, but around here there are no smart answers to the questions we ask. These days we see that the current topic is to reduce the number of ministries, the administration. To God, we're reducing the number of ministries, and we're opening them up in Vojvodina. I'd like someone to tell me something about it. If I say just one thing, that 500 people work at the Youth and Sports Ministry, and only 200 at the Ministry of Infrastructure (I say - only 200, compared to these 500), how many, according to the Vojvodina-based so-called future ministries, will people work? If Mr Ljajic hadn't been accidentally offended as I bypassed him on these issues, I have one question for him since he is president of the Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and our special prosecutor, or whatever his name is. A few months ago, Mr. Minister, you, along with Mr. Vukcevic, released one piece of information into the media that allegedly Mr. Ratko Mladic is in Belgrade, walking around in woolen socks. Could you be any closer to telling us what the colors of those socks are, are they white, black, they're tied to the pans, is the wool of which they're made of, perhaps, those socks from the Cave high and so on? In order not to make this any more like what you want, if the ministers were to answer the questions from the cafe (before this session you sat with 'your' MPs), that we would not continue to participate in this farce, the NS parliamentary group would leave this session, this session of the National Assembly, and I am giving you one message, as to the Government and ministers. The questions you will not answer here in the Assembly, in front of the MPs, believe that you will answer very quickly in the streets. I don't think you want it, and no one wants it, but your behavior will contribute to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16728	Since it is the application of the Rules of Procedure, then I have the opportunity to give you an answer to the question of what is going on in a case that is not intended for the Rules of Procedure and which is not going to happen in the National Assembly, which is that the Minister or any member of the Government or the Prime Minister refuses to answer the MP's question. The question asked by the MP shall be sent to the Minister by written means and the obligation to respond shall fall under the Rules of Procedure within eight, fifteen or thirty days. So there is no business opportunity for the MP to remain without answering the question. It may be our suggestion to the ministers that it is much better for everyone to give oral answers at such sessions, and that, if the MPs are not satisfied with these answers, they add them to the detailed and written answers. Since the issue also concerns the type of session we are at, today is a special session, scheduled at the request of parliamentary groups, with topics whose election has been held by parliamentary groups. This session takes place with the will and business opportunity of the SRS parliamentary group and the LDP parliamentary group and by acting as National Assembly President, Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, under the obligation of the Rules of Procedure to schedule the session. That's the difference between yesterday's session. No one scheduled yesterday's session. Yesterday's session, which according to the Rules of Procedure, has to be held every last Thursday in the calendar month, is mandatory and government representatives are obliged to attend the session. At this session, which is special, thematic, theorising the topic it deems current, which it considers important to tematicise during our debate, requires which ministers, which the government's representatives, vice president or prime minister, should be present. The difference is essential, no matter what it may not look like. Just as a contribution, let me tell you that of the 286 issues asked by the government in 242 cases. In these missing persons, they will be warned that they must. The part where ministers don't like the questions, and MPs don't like the answers, I can't get in, according to the Rules of Procedure, and there's only one thing that helps us to have these sessions more often, so we can start to like the answers. Minister Verica Kalanovic, so Minister Rasim Ljajic wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16729	I want to answer a part of Mrs Popovic's question. It seems to me that today the working group invited to this thematic session has a difficult task, to respond to dissatisfactions that do not stem from the law establishing jurisdiction and statutes. It is hardly possible that a group of ministers who had a document in front of them that had done the province's administration or the province's executive council, based on the statutes, which is an act between the Constitution and the law, from which a law would come into force, should interpret what someone thought. With the belief that the statute and that the law on determining jurisdiction is the true need and will of the citizens of Vojvodina and that it was almost consensually brought to the Regional Assembly, and the full consensus in the Regional Executive Council, we had ahead of us something that we tried to imitate with what Serbia should be in the coming period and with what Serbia today is. I attended Wednesday's meeting with Mr. Pajtic and the top officials of Vojvodina who had at first sight only words of praise for the text they received as feedback. Therefore, whether autonomy is essential or not, is it true that Vojvodina does not have the autonomy that Kosovo has (if I may have misunderstood, I apologize), do not go to this address. The task force has done everything to include all the powers proposed by Vojvodina as an objective need for its citizens in the law on competences and images with existing responsibilities that have ministries. I think that's what she did. The task force has made a lot of efforts to build the bridge between ministries and secretaries in information, in understanding, in passing on one and other experiences. As far as I'm concerned, the Executive Greater Vojvodina is not as unhappy with the proposed solution as the ambassadors from Vojvodina. I'd like to keep it in perspective today's discussion. The task force was called today to discuss the government's proposal. We argue that the government's proposal is made in a 100% respect of what was the proposal of the Regional Executive Council, that it differs from that proposal in those parts with which the Regional Executive Council agrees, and that we have before us one paper, one proposal, a bill that is the consent of both the republican government and the province government. If we look at it that way, then we can't say that the answers to the task force are hollow. Possible political, but don't put us in the yard to answer those political issues that are foreseen for pre-election campaigns. We didn't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16730	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic, wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16731	I don't want to remain the answer to the question asked. Of course, the answer is very short. No one knows where Ratko Mladić is hiding at the moment. I read the papers, too, that he's supposed to be in Belgrade, but none of the officials who deal with this issue could say that, because no one could say such an irresponsible statement. It would mean that there really is no will, and no one wants to solve this problem essentially. Whether he's wearing woolen socks, whether he's going barefoot around the room, I really don't know and I can't answer that question, but like you, I've read about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16732	The People's MP Vuceta Toskovic has the word, followed by Olena Papuga's folk letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16733	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers, I will not ask for an answer to this question from you ministers because, as far as I've seen at this point, you're doing it all in gloves and, let's not say, you're demagoguely answering questions. I'm going to tell Miss Jerkov that Vojvodina has received real autonomy in Austria, and that the autonomy of Vojvodina since 1945 is Broz's fluid, so it's not the same when I say so and when he says Jerkova what's going on with the AP Vojvodina. I need to introduce you to one fact. Mine and I have been refugees since 1941 with KIM. Me and my family, and not only my family, but many families, the Shiptari were expelled from KIM. Since 1945 KIM has been the same production of Brozov and has become an autonomous province. There are five or six people here who are authors of the original text of the statutes of the province of Vojvodina. There are people who said in some shows that they only admit the original text and nothing else. Not to mention who these people are, they will be recognized, from ministers to leaders of some parties. So, I don't move again after the adoption of this statute, to move from the province of Vojvodina to central Serbia. The province's statutes are secessionist from the first to the last member, and that is not, as the minister said earlier, the will of the citizens of Vojvodina. It is not the will of the people of Vojvodina because they did not vote for the DS, the SPS and the Social Democrats League to separate Vojvodina from Serbia. I'm not asking you for an answer, gentlemen of the Ministers, but the SNS and I in it will fight the legal way that this statute does not vote here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16734	The word is a folk letter from Olena Papuga, followed by Parliament MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16735	Dear Presidents, the Presidency, members of the government, fellow MPs, I am sorry that today some thoughts are being made that some MPs are dealing with the Vojvodina only in the campaign. I think today has really shown who deals with Vojvodina, with which intentions, which MPs are Vojvodina in the heart, soul and spirit. I'd like to ask a financial question. We've been waiting for the jurisdiction law for six months, I don't know why, so I wonder when the law will be passed to determine the funding. Will it be extended as well or will it be brought before? One more question. When it comes to the assets of the AP Vojvodina, the proposal for the Statute of the AP Vojvodina says that Vojvodina can be the founder and public enterprises. There is no law on determining jurisdiction, so I wonder whether these public undertakings will be expelled from the statutes or out of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16736	Minister Snezana Malovic wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16737	First question I think is exhausted in my previous answer. As for the law to determine the financing of the powers of the AP Vojvodina, I said that contacts already exist and that the agreements concerning the law had already begun and I am deeply convinced, and the Prime Minister himself said that we would have the bill soon. As for the establishment of public enterprises in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, I do not think you have carefully read the work version of the bill on determining jurisdiction. It will be enough to look at Article 27, so you will see that the AP Vojvodina can also set up public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16738	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Ostojic, but it's not there. The word is from MP Zoran Masic, followed by MP Radovan Radovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16739	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, honourable Members of the People, I would like to ask a few questions concerning the Statute of the Vojvodina. I am one of those who think that in the statute adopted in the District Assembly there are provisions that are unconstitutional. First of all, I think it's one of those anti-constitutional provisions that officializes the formation of the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. The constitution regulates that the science area is at the level of the Serbian state and is being financed as such. The Academy of Science around the world are primarily research institutions, which select top scientific research workers who help with their knowledge and experience in affirming research work, training young people and making scientific elites. The Vojvodina Academy of Science cannot possibly have that attribute, because it existed for a time, so it was abolished, and now, by the will of the province's autonomous government, it is formed and the statute wants to make it official. I am sorry that there is no Minister of Education or Minister of Science to ask them what their opinion is about how much such an academy will advance scientific research in Vojvodina and how much the educational process will advance. There is a minister of justice here, so I would like to ask, if he can give his personal opinion, whether the formation of the Academy of Science and Arts of Vojvodina and its funding is in accordance with the Constitution or not in accordance with the Constitution. The second question, whether the law transposing jurisdiction and giving such an opportunity, since we have a clear attitude of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts to oppose it, is also opposed to a large number of research workers and from the University of Novi Sad and other universities in Serbia. Therefore, it would be normal, especially in this economic crisis, not to double the institutions if we are to seek to concentrate the funds, to separate larger funding from the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, to finance more research work throughout the country of Serbia, namely researchers in Vojvodina, and not to be allowed to form the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts. I thank and hope to have the opportunity to ask further questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16740	National MP Olena Papuga has the right to further questions for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16741	I guess we didn't get along. I did not ask if Vojvodina could establish public enterprises, that is, by the Statute of Vojvodina, but I asked whether the property of these public enterprises founded by Vojvodina would be the assets of the AP Vojvodina, because the statutes provided for, and not by, the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16742	National MP Radovan Radovanovic has a word, followed by MP Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16743	Madam President, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, members of the Working Group, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have worked very seriously, at least so far. As a prelude to say, when we come from Vojvodina, then we think that this relationship that the rest of the Republic of Serbia -- not all of it, but there are -- may be about us being caused by, here are two people, Mrs. Komic and Mr. Novakovic, who are chairing the National Assembly sessions to send such signals that most people in Vojvodina live calmly and patiently and therefore have the Dukes of Patience and have a bath, so they will have essential autonomy eventually. That's what it's gonna be. But to get serious and get things back to my question. We heard a lot today about this draft, how it came to him and some of the disputed things we may have resolved, I'm talking about the law on determining the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, but something that is not in it and what we haven't heard today, is whether members of the working group, and finally the members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are thinking that this law should be given the character of a lex specialis, so that the next law does not reduce or challenge any of these powers or part of the jurisdiction that should belong to it or be passed on to the AP Vojvodina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16744	The answer wants to be given by Justice Minister Snezana Malovic. After that, there is the word Zoran Ostojic, if there is no need for an additional question from MPs who will receive an answer to their question in this address.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16745	The Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is, in some ways, a lex specialis, because it is a roof law that regulates the affairs of the AP Vojvodina directly in its jurisdiction, which will be entrusted to it. So I don't see the possibility of the other law changing that law, because then they'll certainly be in collegiate. As for the previous question concerning the property of the AP Vojvodina, I don't think we understood each other very well, so I'll explain. The Public Property Act drawn up by the Ministry of Finance is at a public hearing. This work version of the law we tried to bring into line with the work version of the public property law, and I don't think there are any considerations and there are no problems. As for the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, which is regulated by the draft statutes, it is not a constitutional category. It's a category that regulates the law. With this proposal for a law establishing jurisdiction, we have adhered to a member of the Constitution that regulates the powers of the AP Vojvodina in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16746	The right to two enquiries has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16747	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I regret to say, in relation to Mrs. Minister's reply, that I did not understand what was accepted by the commission that was working on the law on the transfer of jurisdiction. We'll wait until we get a detailed answer, but count on serious debates about all this. I was hoping you'd be more specific. Since Mr. Obradovic, Minister of Education, a man who works at the University, I will take the opportunity to ask him a direct question, since he was not there earlier when I asked him. So the question is whether his personal opinion that the formation of the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts will improve the educational process at the University of Novosad. To the second question I would like to ask, I am asking for an answer in written form for all MPs, which is to deliver how many regular members of the Vojvodina Academy have been elected so far, how many letter members, how many departments have been formed at the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences and Arts, and what nationality has been chosen by academics. I think that will be important for the debate that will follow, as much has been said over the past period in terms of the unnecessary existence of the academy, such as the much lighter criteria for selecting academics at the Vojvodjan Academy of Sciences than at the Serbian Academy of Sciences. Furthermore, there is the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts Department in Novi Sad. So, all those research workers, university professors or researchers from the institute can be equally candidates from the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts Department in Novi Sad and be elected academics of the Serbian Academy. Also, the existence of the Vojvodina Academy of Science and Art will not, in any sense, improve the work of the Mother of Serbia, which is also one of the top institutions, and scientific and cultural, with the aim of caring primarily for the personality of the Serbian people's culture. So I'm really asking, if possible, if we're gathered here and the others, to hear as many direct answers as possible to the questions asked. What I was looking for in writing, I hope all MPs get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16748	Minister of Human and Minority Rights Svetozar Ciplic wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16749	Dear MPs and MPs, although I am not personally in business, or in charge of the issue of the law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, I believe that when I can offer certain answers, that is what I should do. As far as the academy is concerned, there are often certain concepts involved. The Vojvodina Academy of Science and Arts is a regional academy. In the world you have several types of academy, from the state, which the Serbian Academy of Science and Art is and can be the only one, through private, Fahoe, to regional ones. This academy, i.e. its existence and its establishment, was conceived, seems to me, in 2004, by the decision of the District Assembly and, in that sense, it cannot change its character, except that it is regional. There is no doubt in Novi Sad that there is a class of the only state-run Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and that there is also a Vojvodina Academy as a regional academy. In addition to political, it seems to me that there are no other problems here.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16750	Minister Zarko Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16751	I would like to thank my colleague Mašić for the question, but also my colleagues, Chiplic, for his reply, in the section relating to the status of the Academy. Whether the Academy will contribute to the process of education and education depends on who does and what does, how it deals with the topic. But it's not just a question of the Academy in Novi Sad, it's a question of all educational-experienced scientific institutions in this republic. You have many that exist, and whose results are modest in relation to the goals they set and vice versa, you have many who and how they do quality work. It depends on what the subject of research is and what kind of scientific argument will be used and applied in scientific research. We, in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are starting to want to achieve a positive result and look at things on this positive side, of course, making sure that something is always possible and negative. But why think about the negative? Optimists like to put things in a positive way in their lives. We are, at least personally, and I don't want to look at things from the other side, if it were. Of course, you should talk about it, but not in categories that's for sure. It's possible, hypothetically anything is possible, but that way one good idea should not be judged immediately. I want to tell you, this is also mentioned by my colleague Chiplic, an example of our SANU, who has a role not only in education and science, but also in the cultural development of society, so sometimes we all agree that perhaps the Academy is not taking on certain issues. It's taken as an element of the Academy's condition and, hopefully, not with a negative, but with something that is. In that context, I think we should consider this question. Col. Chiplic explained very clearly what the status of the Academy is and should not immediately, apriori, go with some negative conclusion. At least that's what I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16752	The word has an MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16753	Madam Chairman, I thank you. I'm sorry to call you the third time, but I'm kind of directly now. I'd like to tell Mr. Chiplic first. Mr. Chiplic, I'm a university professor at the University of Novosad, at the Faculty of Agriculture, so I know the situation with regard to research and education. When you say the Academy is founded as regional, then it would be normal for it to be funded from that region, it means that the region has some original means to fund research at the academy. It wasn't like that until now, and it won't be like that in the future. The academy will be financed from funds that Serbian citizens allocate to the Republic of Serbia's budget and will be transferred to the AP Vojvodina. You will say – that is how you finance and education. Yes, education is funded, but education exists as a need and cannot be treated as regional. And in this situation, especially if we are in favour of rationalization and saving, then you should be the first to say to the gentlemen who exist in that academy that now is not the time to establish themselves, to wait with their activities, and to have a stately, respected scientific institution, which affirms and sciences, and the culture and history of the Serbian people and all other peoples who exist in the Republic of Serbia, as we have the Matrix of Serbia. So, Mr. Chiplet, don't defend anything from autonomous positions that cannot be defended in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16754	Minister Chiplic wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16755	Looks like we have a misunderstanding about the facts. It's not a state academy. I said very clearly - "regional." It was already established in 2004, by the APV Assembly. What follows can't be financed by the Republic. So, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there And I was right when I said this was a political issue. Anyone who gives an answer, in this case about the Academy, has been declared an autonomist. We have a misunderstanding about facts. So, I repeat, the taacade is whether or not someone liked it (if, as counterpart Zarko Obradovic said, she has some contribution to science, I don't know, you should know, because she is yours, regional, and you are a university professor), it's a practical state. But it is entirely incorrect that what the AP set up will be a burden on the citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's just not true. The one who found it, the one who financed it. It was according to the 1990 Constitution, it's also under this Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16756	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16757	Dear Vice-Presidents, gentlemen and Madam Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, my colleagues spoke of the Statute of Vojvodina and the Law on the Transfer of Jurisdiction. I wouldn't hold on to that. After all, we all know that decisions are made not in government, but elsewhere. In one party or in the Kremlin, I mean Belgrade. We will tell our views to the citizens and citizens of Vojvodina. I'm sorry Mr. Cvetkovic isn't here, but there are plenty of ministers and ministers, so I'm going to address you as Government, as if he were there. To begin with, one suggestion. It is said here that no one in The Hague and Brussels disputes Serbia's political desire and will to complete co-operation and hand over Hadzic and Mladic, so my suggestion (this is not a question, if you feel called, you can comment) next – then stop making statements that Serbia is a hostage of Mladic and Hadzic, because Serbia is not a hostage of the two, but Serbia is a hostage or inability to bring them to justice or the absence of political will. Every time you say Serbia is a hostage, you suggest you expect them to surrender voluntarily. And if you expect them to surrender voluntarily, then it means there's no political will to arrest him. We're not the hostages of the two of them. We're the hostages of not being arrested, and that's what the state does. We can't be hostages to someone who robbed the bank, so he's hiding in the woods, but we're hostages to the government's incompetence to complete co-operation with The Hague. It's just one suggestion. With that in mind, there's one other thing I'm saying, one that feels called can answer. Celebrating or marking the 10th anniversary of the bombing was absolutely an opportunity to talk about the causes of the event. That opportunity is missed. I ask you, did you have the impression that time had stopped or that the time had returned? You, Mr. Obradich, I believe you couldn't have anything in your stomach because it just seemed like Milosevic was alive. I'm asking you others. What's up on so-called. Public service for the past few days -- a government session, a "pump" that always ends the way it ends, with so-called "pump." hooligans or right-wing organizations are not worthy of marking this tragic event for the state. And indeed there was an opportunity to remind ourselves of what led to this. With that in mind, when we talk about continuity, there's no finance minister again, so I'm going to ask the minister of justice. You know there's a campaign against Jovanovic. The campaign was run by one person, who in 1996 for RTS, called "black woman", mudsling protesters that they were traitors, that they were mercenaries, that they were carrying foreign flags. There's been a continuity since 1996. And today, such a person, for someone else, is doing the job. Remember the black woman. Is it normal, Mrs. Malovic, for the director of the Tax Administration to comment on one natural person, Jovanovic, in a media that owes the state millions of dollars for tax? Is that all the continuity from which normal citizens turn their stomachs? Does one of you, when you're comparing the facts like this, happen the same way? I'm shutting you down, Mr. Beard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16758	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16759	As Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think the government of the Republic of Serbia has rightly paid respects to the people who died ten years ago and rightly found a measure of events that were ten years ago. Whether it bothers anyone or not, that's another question. It's a question and a view of events that were ten years ago. But I'm telling you, you can't take a step forward with us or on other sides until you get the strength to talk about everything. It wasn't Willy Brant who became who he was because he was the president of the SDP or the Federal Chancellor, but because he admitted that the Germans were doing it in relation to the Jews. Sooner or later someone will have to say - yes, we did, and sorry, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If we start with a logic that, unfortunately, some of our colleagues and MPs and the general public use, that ours is just to keep quiet and to accept everything they impose on us, there's no state there. I think you also saw in the work of the government, through an open session, what Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic said, and through the behaviour of MPs, ministers who visited certain places and through a speech by President Tadic from New York, that the government and that the state of Republika Srpska had found a measure of this. I have the impression that it is more appreciated by those to whom it applies than by some of our citizens who are trying politically to profit from it. It is known what happened in 1999, especially now in 2009, and about the causes and consequences. The topic is not problematic, but the question is whether the conclusion will be as it should be, or if we start from Murphy's -- if your opinion disagrees with the facts, so much worse by the facts. That's the problem with some of our people. We did. We were bombed. They decided to bomb us, and that was the final result of one policy. Now, in the meantime, both Racak and all those other things have experienced their place in history, because the direct actors of these events gave their judgment. So it wasn't us, it was them who said what they were thinking. We have the truth, what we need tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, at some age... They'll change, and others change, they shouldn't just ask us to change, and others to keep quiet. I'm telling you, Willy Brant didn't become what he was by being president or Chancellor, but by admitting that three, four, five decades ago (when he did it, it was already a distant past) the state did something. So sooner or later, it'll come. It is my opinion, but I am fully convinced that the state of the Republic of Serbia has done it in an absolutely dignified way. I have to tell you, I was in Barbarian. It was very difficult for me because I was standing next to the man whose daughter died in 1999, who was a member of the SPO, a party with whom we Socialists were in completely different positions in the 1990s. Believe me, nothing my dictionary, as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was different from what he said as the president of the municipality or as the parent who lost his daughter. That's what I'm talking about. A lot has changed and we need to be aware that the world is changing, but don't just look inside of us, inside of us, inside of us... Others change, too. Whether they admit it or not, that's a different story. Everyone makes mistakes, both small and big, the difference between small and big is they don't admit it. They're pulling their moves the other way. Excuse me, let's comment on how you were experiencing the message of the American ambassador when he went to Panchevo and apologized, admitted that there were human casualties and material damage. How do you feel about that? I'd like you to draw your own conclusions. The government of the Republic of Serbia should not be called for because of what it does in the interests of the state. There were no praises or celebrations. The post office was given to people who died in 1999 and to 2,500 civilians, 89 children and 1.005 soldiers and police officers. They were all defending the country in another way or they were victims of what happened. There are facts and the thing is, are we all ready to accept it and how in 1999 or what the government is doing now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16760	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Zoran Ostojić, entitled to two questions for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16761	Mr. Beard, I've excluded you. I just can't believe you're answering on behalf of the minister sitting here. I know that if Milosevic were now Prime Minister or State, this would seem to be the mark of victory over NATO. Don't hide behind the victims. The victim is Slavko Curuvija, so isn't it the time when it's marked to mention it? People were running from bombs, but they were running from both your politics and the killer of a state apparatus abroad. What does it look like you're hiding behind it? I'm talking about the policy that led to it. Isn't a ten-year-old an opportunity to talk about it? And I've excluded you. You're satisfied, I'm asking them. That continuity certainly suits you, it's not controversial, but what in this country has changed in ten years? What we're saying is that it was a country defense policy, so everything we talked about? We want to enter Europe. Have we adopted any new values? Yesterday we passed anti-discrimination law. We're full of the mouth of Europe, and we're talking the old way, in the old matrix. Look at RTS, just so there's no "Slavica," I mean "Slavice." On the other hand, I'm talking about continuity, and when I talk about continuity, I don't think about you at all, so you're continuity, I'm asking other ministers how they feel. When a woman who muddled citizens every day in 1996 and 1997 through RTS (then she was your servant, and now she is someone else's) I ask Jovanovic about this continuity, not you, but other ministers. I'm sorry to hear about Tsvetkovic. What does Cvetkovic have to do with your policy since before 5 October? You're here, but I don't see that the dominant party, the ruling party imposes its policy. I see that, and I ask the ministers, which was also in the past two governments, that the smaller party imposes politics on the Democratic Party and that it leads that policy. That's why I'm not happy and, simply, when I excluded you, I didn't expect you to come out and answer me, but someone else did.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16762	Do any of the MPs present in the O.R. want to ask a parliamentary question? No, I don't. ) Does one of the representatives of the government, the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, want to give another answer if he thinks he missed? No, I don't. ) Since no one wants to ask a parliamentary question or give an answer before we finish our work, I thank ministers who have answered parliamentary questions about the current issues. I am informing the National Assembly that the ministers of business time, 180 minutes, spent 72 minutes, so there were 108 minutes left to answer questions. I remind the National Assembly that it is Article 207. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that, unless all parliamentary questions are answered at the scheduled time, which is not the situation that took place at today's session, the President of the National Assembly may decide the second day when the ministers will answer those questions, and that business provision is ensured that, no matter how many parliamentary groups propose current topics, there will be time for ministers to provide answers to all parliamentary questions raised during that special session. This concludes work in Dan to answer parliamentary questions about the current topics. I thank you all for your participation and inform the National Assembly that the extension of the Third Session, which opened yesterday, will be at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16763	THE THIRD SESSION OF THE FIRST REGULAR SESSION OF THE 27th March 2009 (Second Day of Work) (The session began at 15.05 p.m. The chairman of Gordana Komic, vice-president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16764	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 128 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Velimir Ilic and Jelena Travar-Miljević. National MP Djuro Pejic was absent today only during the afternoon, and is now present and ready for afternoon work. We move to the 1st and 2nd part of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE MEETING MEETING OF THE FIRST MEMBER STATE OF THE COURT AND OF THE COURT OF COUNTRY (jointly a single search) We have stopped at the moment of the session when they have the right to speak to the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or if anyone else wants a word. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet. He wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and gets a word based on Article 100(1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16765	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the manner of violating the Rules of Procedure is something that really becomes a synonym for this House's chairman. In the morning, you announced that the session will begin at 15.00 hours. You have violated a member of 86 who obliges you to open a session, as current chairman, and on the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, you shall determine the number of MPs attending the session. We who were here at 3 p.m. were witnesses that you had agreed, ran, didn't have this, didn't have that, we saw it, and you concluded among yourselves that you didn't have enough number of MPs to provide you with a quorum for the start of today's working day. What did I answer for? I told you, this is a common practice, but one of the MPs told you to start, because it's been 15.00 hours. You, Mrs. Komic, said you were using a business opportunity, and then it was 15.07 hours, and you said, "I have eight minutes left." Now, Mrs. Comic, I want you to tell the MPs where it is written in this Rules of Procedure that the National Assembly for the beginning of its work can, in addition to this Rules of Procedure, use some, as it is popularly said, academic 15 minutes. I haven't read that. You may be a smarter woman than I am, but please teach me. It certainly is from you, because at least you didn't show what you know or what you don't know. So please respond...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16766	Two minutes. Thank you. The time of work is at 10:00 a.m. and at the scheduled time after the break. The time at which the quorum is determined, you are absolutely right, is not defined by any member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but is part of parliamentary practice. We are all here to witness that what has been established practice in our work has the same force of validity as a member, that is, the position of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I respect the insistence that the quorum be established in the Rules of Procedure for a specified time and that parliamentary practice be abolished in such a way as there are other types of parliamentary practice that we have established here beyond the clear definitions in the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want to make a statement in the voting day? I didn't understand if there were any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. ) National MPs, I really ask you to follow the explanation more closely and to follow the course of the session with more concentration. So I said that you were absolutely right that there are no members and no positions for 15 minutes in which we determine whether or not there is a quorum for work. I said it was parliamentary practice and that the strength of practice can be equal to the strength of the established member and the position in the Rules of Procedure. We are all here to witness that there was also parliamentary practice beyond the clearly prescribed member and position in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I thanked you for the suggestion that such parliamentary practice should be interrupted and that the quorum should be established in the Rules of Procedure for a specified time. So, if you've been following me now, I'm asking you, do you want us to come forward in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? You want to talk again about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16767	Now, Mrs. Komic, you have injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure. You can't talk about some established parliamentary practice. I remind you, let's just say, of the years-long established parliamentary practice that the chairman of the Administrative Committee is from the main opposition party. You're the one who stepped on it. And not only that, you do not step on parliamentary practice, you step on and violate this Rules of Procedure in the most harsh way possible. You're now asking if I'm satisfied with your answer, and you actually said yourself that you did violate the Rules of Procedure. Come on, once in your life in that place, democratically, say, "Behold, I have broken the Rules of Procedure, and let it be recorded in the stenographic notes." We will plead in the voting day, when you are barely gathered to vote what is on the agenda, and of course you will vote that there has been no damage to the Rules of Procedure, and that is so obvious. I insisted precisely because you are violating the Rules of Procedure, not to remind you, and we will remind you during the day of what you did yesterday and what you did today in the afternoon. You step on parliamentary practice, you step on the Rules of Procedure, you step on the Constitution, you trample on the dignity of the National Assembly. You insult the dignity of the People's Messengers. You insult the dignity of Serbian citizens, because we didn't come here from the market, so they stopped by; we were elected here by Serbian citizens. We must, and we want to act in accordance with the will of the citizens who chose us. I assume that all those who chose you, Mrs. Comic, and your MP group...
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16768	Thank you. In an explanation that you tried to say that a injured member of 104 was not injured by a member of 104. The content of your presentation indicates that you consider one parliamentary practice to be good, which is a parliamentary practice for the chairman of the Administrative Committee to be of the order of opposition parties, and another parliamentary practice, to wait between one and 15 minutes to determine the quorum, you consider it bad. So, parliamentary... (Dragan Todorovic, from town: That's what you do. Please don't throw it away. National MP Dragan Todorovic... Please listen to the MPs when they expose themselves to the pay phone. So, in a free quote, the People's MP, Verica Radeta, said that parliamentary practice, which is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure, that the chairman of the Administrative Board is good from the ranks of opposition parties and that the ruling majority has abolished here, in your opinion, and you can look at the stenogram, a good parliamentary practice. You tried to give this as an explanation of the position that parliamentary practice is to wait between zero and 15 minutes for a quorum to be determined and that it should be interrupted. So, you can't both, you can't have parliamentary practice that you think is in your interest to be good, and parliamentary practice that you currently think isn't in your interest to be bad. We all, ourselves 250, participate in building both practices and good rules in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. One of the things you failed to see as a violation of the Rules of Procedure is that MPs sit in the hall at the time of the quorum and violate a member of the Rules of Procedure who obliges all MPs to participate in the establishment of the quorum, because the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not know the MPs of the ruling majority and MPs of the opposition. The time when we wait, a few minutes, to establish the quorum is the time that parliamentary practice is to tolerate MPs who come under the influence of a member of the Rules of Procedure in the obligation to determine the quorum to consider it their political right. It's a violation of the rules. Along with the strict application of the Rules of Procedure, the strict application of that member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will also take place. So either there will be an end to the working relationship that was founded by an MP on a permanent basis or there will be the establishment of quorum by all MPs. Thank you. I am pleased to have the undivided support of opposition political groups and the ruling majority for the strict application of members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. We move to work in order. MP Vladan Batic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we have one delicate item on the agenda and I think we should be very careful when electing prosecutors to the State's Major Prosecutors. When it comes to the prosecutor's organisation, Serbia, unfortunately, cannot be praised that it is a guarantee of rule of law in the rule of law. In the past few years, we've had a situation where state prosecutors were first retired, I mean the Belgrade district attorney, and then both of them have been in so-called V.D. for a long time. condition. When we pick prosecutors, I guess it's here in their biographies that says how many criminal charges they've been making, how much they've filed for an investigation, how many indictments they've filed, how many criminal convictions they've made, let's see who it's about. I'm afraid we've had a lot of fog sales lately, smoke curtains, a lot of delusions and big affairs. When you get under those big affairs, there's nothing left. What about the story of "pancir", "flowers", "satellite", "Knjaz Milos", "Kargo center", "Meridian home" etc.? What about the arrests of Radet Terzic, Milan Obradovic and many other people? What about things that are not processed, with the Cyprus money, with the HVB Bank, with the Euroaxis Bank, with Russian gas, with Syrian oil, with Czech debt? It's in the drawers. That's not what you're talking about. Let's take another example, the so-called example. football mobs, as the Serbian prosecutor's office conducts selective justice. Who was the target of these procedures? The Red Star people, Dragan Djajic and Cvetkovic, and the Belgrade OFFK people with Zvezdan Terzic headed. So he wanted the cabinet of a prime minister and one interior minister to put people on a pillar of shame, to arrest Djajic in front of cameras, handcuffs both in front of children and in front of the family; to declare Zvezdan Terzic a state enemy number one; not only a criminal, but because he did not give up his Montenegrin friends, then a traitor. So state enemy number one. What about the other football clubs, their presidents, the practice that lasts for years? They have their own mecenaries, their protectors in individual political leaders, primarily from the former government, but also in certain tycoons. That's selective justice. I'm warning y.d. D.A. and V.D. Belgrade district attorney not to pursue selective justice anymore, to see who has a beloved prime minister or a beloved minister, so he can't be found on the indictment, so he's not on the chase, so he's not handcuffed. We'll get it all out. I once again warn the state's attorney and district attorney in Belgrade not to pursue selective justice. What about the political background of Zoran Djindjic's murder? What about the shameful affair "Topcider"? The whole world knows that two boys were shot, and the D.A.'s office is silent. We'll make him talk and not exercise selective justice. Either they all have to answer, or no one will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16770	Before we move to debate, and by order of the MPs according to the application for a word, I would like to inform you, on the basis of Article 85(5), that we will be working today after 1800 hours, and after discussing this agenda point. According to Article 93(4), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint single search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted the following parliamentary groups: the LDP, the DSS and the SRS. I give my word to the First People's MP, the People's MP, in order to report for the word. National MP Judita Popovic, followed by National MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16771	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, we have a big job ahead of us. Today, we need to finish the debate on people, specifically 22 people, 11 prosecutors and 11 judges, in order to take the first step towards a comprehensive reform of the judiciary. Our debate today and the choices of these people depend on which direction this judicial reform will take, which we have talked about so much over the past few months when the set of judicial laws was on the agenda. We all agreed then that this reform is necessary, that it is necessary to ensure one independence in the work of courts and prosecutors, we agreed that we today have no independence in the work of courts and prosecutors, we agreed that there are major problems and that these problems are numerous, as far as prosecutors and courts are concerned. So if this is so serious and so complicated, then we should really take this seriously when we are discussing today, when we decide today whether these people who are proposed for election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors are really worthy of starting a big job in Serbia. Today, we will talk about these election members because we can decide on them alone, and the executive body has its permanent members, so it is understood that the executive power has a certain competence, as the future work of the Supreme Council of the judiciary concerns, as well as the State Council of Prosecutors. If we can already decide about eight people, as far as the High Council is concerned, six judges, one lawyer and one professor, or eight people in the State Council of Prosecutors, six prosecutors, one lawyer and one professor, then we should know who these people are, whether they can bear that burden, whether they have personal integrity, whether they know what obligations they take on themselves and whether those obligations can bear. The main task of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors is to hold a general choice of judges, as well as a general choice of prosecutors. The second task is to ensure an independent availability of funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the work of the High Council and the State Council. The third task is to ensure self-government, which is the judiciary's judiciary, and the prosecutor's office, to make a decision on the number of judges and the number of prosecutors. I would remind you that March 30th is the last time these people have to choose. Within seven days, the constitution of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors is foreseen, 30 days it is necessary to make the decision on their part on the number of judges and prosecutors, 90 days it is necessary to establish the criteria and criteria for the general selection of judges and prosecutors. If all this is done, June and July are your months when we can be ready to launch a general choice of judges and prosecutors. So these are the serious tasks that stand before these people. We've got a list of candidates for the High Council and for the State Council. Do all these people meet the conditions that each of us MPs predicted they must fulfill in order to carry out this task, in addition to these general conditions that the law provides and which, normally, must exist for a future member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary? As far as the judge is concerned, I'm guessing the courts' colleges were so mature and so capable of identifying specific people from their ranks. I guess that's what the law offices did, too, I guess, too, when they went to law school. If that's the case, do we, do I personally have the right to any fear that we're not going to get quality people today who are going to have to do all these jobs that I've listed? Of these specific names personally, I couldn't single out anyone, not as far as the negative parties are concerned, because one candidate, one man has so many sides of his personality, there's so much in his life that he can't put on paper, so much of it includes a human life that we can't really be sure that this man who is going to get (or on Monday) a verification for that future position will really know what is expected of him. We can only express hope that it will be the right people, who will start and end as expected of them, according to the laws that this assembly has passed. I think now the situation in the judiciary has become almost unsustainable. We know there's a lot to be done, that there's a lot of talk about corruption, that there's a lot of talk about being too many judges, that it's a big problem that a society in transition, where we are today, can't stand and carry. If we witness daily attacks on judges, false reports of bombings and so forth, then we know that we did well what we decided to do for a set of judicial laws. I hope that this path that we started with these laws will really lead to the right goal, and that these people we're discussing today will be able to bring the story to an end, to finally establish the judiciary so that they can do the work that this society really needs. Because it is the cornerstone of Serbia's entire future; if we have courts, if we have prosecutors who will be able to cope with the challenges of this society, we will be able to bear these challenges and face all negative phenomena. If we don't have it, if we can't finish the job of reforming the judiciary, then I really don't know which way to go and what we can do to get this society out of this phase of total lethargy, full static and maybe slowly moving backwards. So today, when you discuss these people, I expect all of you, colleagues and fellow MPs, to give your opinion specifically on each candidate, to make a concrete statement and make any remarks, because that will be of great benefit to the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16772	The word has a national MP, Milica Radovic. After that, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see this agenda today as a continuation of the discussion we had last November on a set of judicial laws. That was when the discussion, both in principle and in particular, lasted a very long time. It's just that a lot of things were said back then. The DSS MPs have made a series of serious objections to this set of laws. The most important are the absence of a serious analysis that would address the current situation in the judiciary and the lack of consideration of the effects of the newly proposed legislative solutions that can be caused in practice. I am fully convinced that the representatives of the Justice Ministry who were working at the time to create a set of judicial laws, given that some time has passed since they were brought, can now fully understand how bad these legal solutions are. I'm primarily thinking about the newly proposed network of courts and prosecutors, which is going to be the most serious way to rock the very judicial organism on the inside. On the other hand, I think primarily in the way in which the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors is chosen, I believe that most MPs remember that at that time we DSS MPs were most attacked by an unconstitutional way of choosing the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judicial over each subsequent choice of judges and prosecutors. Then we said, if the general re-election is established as a rule, is it possible that these two judicial bodies, which in formal and essential terms represent the top of the judicial pyramid, do not go through the same? Where's the logic? Can those who are not "reformed" even reform the justice system? If they are subject to a simplified, easy way of choosing, then the question arises how can they have, or how can they gain a certain level of trust, authority, respect by their colleagues, by representatives of the same branch? I believe that this way of choice should not have been foreseen in the law itself, because it devises every next step that might even go in the direction of improving the situation in the judiciary itself. These judges and prosecutors we're choosing today aim to make a judicial cleanup. More moderately speaking, they have an obligation to decide which of the 2,400 judges, or 800 judges for violations, will remain in the judiciary, to establish the exact number of judges, to establish the criteria for re-election, to propose the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and all judges. I have no doubt that they will do all that, but I ask the question – with what degree of legitimacy? This question arises because they go through one easier way of choosing than all those who will later choose, or suggest. As noted, I do not deal with human resources in my presentation, although I believe there are several very high-quality candidates among these proposed candidates. I'm dealing with the principle here, because I think the names that are proposed are much less important than the principles that are busy during the election itself. I also believe that the basic rule here is not respected, in the extreme case of the European standard, which should have been respected here, which refers to the widest representation of the judiciary. As far as the Supreme Council of the judiciary is concerned, I can say that the Belgrade judiciary, which with 60% of the first-degree cases and more than 30% of the second-degree cases, is represented only by one representative. If we compare this with two representatives of the municipal judiciary from the area of appeal in Kragujevac, which, by the way, has a double number of judges, then math is not true. If we add to all this the fact that from the south of Serbia, or the southeast of Serbia, no one has been elected to be a candidate for the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Greater Prosecutors, then it casts doubt on such a choice. Unfortunately, the state's major prosecutor situation is no different. In Belgrade and the Belgrade judiciary, there are 80 deputy prosecutors. That is about one-fifth of Serbia's total number of deputy prosecutors. The question arises: couldn't any of the 20% of the total number of Serbian deputy prosecutors have been able to find themselves among the candidates for the state's larger prosecutors? If more information is added to that, and if, in the extreme case, it is accurate information, that the district attorney's office has not held a college where it would present its candidate for the state's major prosecutor, then it further casts doubt on such a choice. The judiciary in Serbia is in a very serious situation. Day by day, the level of respect for courts, according to the holders of judicial functions, is dropping. The parties literally open the gates of the courtroom with their feet, threatened, physically harassing the holders of judicial functions. The other day we had a book in Književec, unfortunately, an unfortunate event, in just a year it was repeated; this time the judge was not killed, the wife of the judge was killed for violations. I believe that this alarming state in the judiciary must be put to rest, a solution must be found to get out of this, but it is not achieved, unfortunately, by imposing solutions aimed at further destabilising the judicial organism itself. I feel free to say that for the present state of justice, the most responsible is the Ministry of Justice. It's because of incompetence, whether because of the intricacies of the Justice Department's representative, whether or not for some other reason, he is unable to build his own authority and try to resolve the situation in the judiciary by force of his own authority. Instead, the Ministry of Justice sent a letter to the Supreme Court of Serbia a few days ago to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economy asking for an end to working disputes and to stop the enforcement of judicial decisions in working disputes. I don't know if you understand what this is all about, this is a kind of scandal. Something like this has never been remembered before. Simply, the ministry of justice sent a letter to the Supreme Court of Serbia, where according to a letter from the state secretary, a certain Mr. Ciric, asked that courts do not do what they are factually and founded for. What's that? It is, in the end, the collapse of common sense, it is the collapse of democracy, it is the killing of the rule of law, and all because of the fact that someone who is very financially in charge of this government asked for it. At the very end, I don't want to deal with the personnel solutions that are proposed here, looking at the poor principle of choosing candidates for the High Council of Justice and the State's Chief Prosecutors, I can say that man can be less than optimistic that things in the judiciary are going to be fixed in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16774	Thank you. The word is Mr. Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16775	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to ask the motionary and invite him to come and give a notice. Namely, the High Council of Justice submitted a proposal under number 119-01-4/2009-01 of 29. 01. In 2009. In this proposal, it says: "Articles 50, paragraph 3, and Article 52, paragraphs 5 and 6. The Law on the High Council of the Judiciary ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 116/08), the High Council of Justice of the narrow court for judges at a session held on 28 January 2009 decided to propose to the National Assembly candidates for the High Council of Justice. "The question arises whether this proposal is complete and whether it meets the conditions, if it has been delivered and explicitly indicated in it that the High Council in the narrow composition has decided to propose and not even to say the number represented by this narrow convocation. So, as many of those members have been here, there's no one in this proposal. This is a controversial question, and I suggest, Mr. Vice President, that this part, this point, be removed from the agenda because it is not legally valid that we can decide on it today in the Republic Parliament. People's MPs don't know what a tight composition is. People's MPs don't know how many were present on that narrow band. That's a big flaw. This is a decision that is equal to the judgment of the Supreme Court, and if the ruling has not been reached by the Supreme Court, or by the District Court, or by the municipal, within the legal framework provided for, that decision does not produce any legal fact and cannot be considered a decision. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a previous issue that needs to be resolved and this should be taken off the agenda when it comes to the proposal to propose the High Council of the Judiciary under this law that has been passed. When it comes to the judiciary and when it comes to candidates, there's a lot to be said here. First, it should be said whether it is one of the very important institutions, both in terms of courts, as the High Council of Justice, and in relation to the State's major prosecutors. This is a new institution. The institution is due to reform judicial authorities in the Republic of Serbia. Here is the question of the quality of the frames that are proposed. How can you accept the proposal to propose for the High Council of Justice candidate Nadica Jovanovic, Judge of the Municipality Court in Kragujevac, born 1958 in Kruševec, completed the Faculty of Law at the University of Kragujevac in 1990, Judge and Judicial Associate at the Municipality Court in Kragujevac, and since 2002 he becomes the Judge of the Municipal Court in Kragujevac? Isn't there a municipal court in Kragujevac, the District Court in Kragujevac, the District Court in Užica, the District Court in Valjevo, the District Court in Nis, not to list any better candidate, who has had a working experience, who has worked on judges' affairs for at least 20 years? Why? So that the judge can propose and participate in the selection of candidates. The judge must know the outsider procedure, the litigation, the criminal proceedings and all the structures of the judiciary. Then, the judge must meet all the conditions and criteria, and secondly, that he has evidence that this judge has worked as a judge for so many years, that in that year he has received in particular so many cases, that he has dealt with so many cases annually, that so many cases have been modified, that a certain number of cases have been confirmed to him, that a number of cases have been abolished. We don't have enough of such indicators for the candidates here. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are lawyers and experts here who know the next fact. You might think, if the candidate was proposed for the High Council of the Judiciary, and he solved the cases of succession or solved the subject matter, according to the performances, complaints and complaints of the citizens, he dealt with these cases annually and has a large number of resolved cases, but these cases are not complex cases. These are not objects that he can have a license to become, above all, a member of the High Council of the judiciary. Secondly, if he was working on a criminal referendum, it should be known how many ordinary thefts he had as objects, minor bodily injuries, insults, heavy thefts, muggings, rapes or murders and whether he left behind in his judicial career a good result. You get him results, first of all, affirm and they take him to this function. This isn't good. It is not a good thing that the first assembly of the judiciary and the first assembly and composition of the State's Chief Prosecutor is proposed in this way. Why? All the courts, all the prosecutions and the professional public are against this kind of proposal. Why? First, judicial authorities, i.e. The courts, from municipal to Supreme Court, currently, until a cassation court and appeals courts are formed, should make proposals for their candidates, so that they can come before the High Council of Justice, perhaps 50 candidates. Of those 50 candidates, ladies and gentlemen, you should choose those who have results and who can safely share justice tomorrow and who can perform that function and guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens. That's a big problem with this bill. In the judiciary, people aren't happy with this. What's good, what's going on, is that in the ranks of these institutions, lawyers are also proposed, because legal organisations are a constitutional category, and in all countries with developed legal systems, lawyers are actually chosen by the best judges. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a good spell. In the end, I would just say, since this will not come to life and it will not be possible to apply in practice, especially when it comes to territorial division of justice and elections, in this way this is a direct impasse for Serbia's judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16776	The word is Mrs. Vesna Pesic, she's in the O.R., she's gone. Mr Milan Lapčević has the word. The time for your parliamentary group is 16 minutes and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16777	The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, the fact that there is no chairman of the Justice Committee here is quite humiliating for such a debate. But, well, regardless, I'm going to look back on the subject; I'm not going to talk about the candidates themselves, I'm going to talk about a way of proposing and not respecting the minimum territorial principle, in terms of proposing candidates for the High Council of Justice and for the State's Major Prosecutors. Namely, none of the prosecutors' candidates, nor the judges' ranks, have been proposed for these two high-ranking bodies in the area of the Nish Court of Appeal. A reasonable question arises – why is it so? Is it possible that there is no one from the ranks of prosecutors in the area of this appeal court who has credibility and integrity and results in his previous work to be proposed for such high functions? We have seen among the proposals and candidates coming from Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nova Varosha, Kragujevac, Sremska Mitrovica, when it comes to prosecutors. Speaking of judges, there are also from Novi Sad, from Belgrade two, Kragujevac, Kruševac, and yet there are no candidates from the southern or southeastern Serbia. So it's like it's dark out there and there aren't people out there doing these functions and having results. Is it just that there's no result? I will remind you of only one fact that is obvious and verifiable, and this is the area of the District Court in Nis. The district court in Nis is three years in a row, as far as large cities are concerned, one of the best courts in terms of resolved cases and in terms of the number of returned cases, or those who have not passed the audit. So it's not true that there are no people who work quality and it's not true that there are no people who have results, but, apparently, in terms of proposal, the concept of the law itself is not good. Whoever has an impact on the choice of candidates for the State's Major Prosecutors and the VSP obviously did not want that authority to take advantage of it. So, I'm talking about the chairman of the Justice Committee to Mr. Bosko Ristic, who in no way influenced, nor did he seem to want to influence the correcting of this injustice concerning the proposal of candidates for these two high bodies, in the sense that there is no one to be proposed in front of judges or prosecutors from the territory of Southeast Serbia. What's the reason for that? I do not want to go into it, whether there are any personal motives, but it simply raises the question of whether anyone who will be a member of the VSS and who will influence in the future the choice of judges from the territory from which he comes, and of course has an active law office, does not want anyone from his territory also present in the High Council, that all those who should be re-elected from the territory of the Southeastern Serbian courts should address him and precisely from the chairman of the Justice Committee to seek some agreement to be elected. It's a kind of conflict of interest. I don't think that this way the judiciary can be independent and that this way Southeastern Serbia and judges and courts from this territory will be disabled, because they won't have anyone to represent them, but they will decide either one man or those people who have no insight into their work and their competence. I believe that such proposals are relatively correct, but without respect for the territorial principle and without respect for one large territory, a large number of inhabitants, in terms of candidates from that territory, we cannot talk about the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council as credible bodies, which tomorrow will make quality decisions, choose high-quality prosecutors and judges who will do their job according to the law and the way they should. We as DSS, of course, will not support such a choice, because in the beginning we believe that the concept of the law is not good, and the very proposal of candidates, who did not classify people from the territory of Southeast Serbia, cannot be for us a body that will give good proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16778	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we should try to lay the foundations of judicial reform in Serbia, and is that possible? Before I begin to comment on these two points of the agenda, I must ask one serious question for the DS and for the president of the National Assembly, Ms. Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Who motivated you and inspired you to discuss these points of the agenda here without a representative of the Ministry of Justice and, unfortunately, without the chairman of the Board of Administration and Justice? Yesterday someone said -- there's a chairman of the Board of Administration and Justice and he can. It would be like if this parliament adopted a budget or rebalancing and instead of the finance minister Mrs Dragutinovic was present, Mr Zoran Krasic, as chairman of the Finance Committee, or perhaps his colleague Branka Ljiljak, and you say – it's okay, the debate can take place. I think there are two basic reasons why today's National Assembly session should be attended by a minister of justice; if for nothing else, then for the 16 people we're talking about today and who you're going to choose, eight of them at the High Council of Justice and eight in the State's Major Prosecutors. Yeah, these two bodies count 11 members, but three of them will be in electoral function. There's one more question. We know and the Constitution doesn't allow me to challenge the property... I am allowed to mention the Constitution because the Serbian Radical Party has made a major contribution to its adoption. If nothing else, then the preamble of the constitution deserves special attention, as it suggests it is an integral part of Serbia's Kosovo and Metohija. The constitution does not allow us to now challenge the composition of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, so that the chairman of the Assembly Board of Administration and Justice is a member of the two bodies, but is it moral for Bosko Ristic to be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors? By the way, apart from being an MP from the DS, it's not a dispute, he's also a lawyer. When the High Council of the Judiciary or the State's Chief Prosecutors elect prosecutors and deputies, what influence and what will those who are to be elected expect? This is not the only case when a farce is made out of this National Assembly. We had yesterday an example here of how DS is best used by this parliament. Today, too. Today we had a chance to see what it looked like. The High Council of the Judiciary is an institution that was provided for by the Constitution and dedicated to it by three members, regulated by what competences are, the way of elections. The state's major prosecutor is also a constitutional category, mentioned in two members of the Constitution, but here in our judicial system there are three very pronounced problems, in my view, and there are certainly many more. One of the big problems is detention. Very often in Serbia, there is a measure of detention, too long and, unfortunately, it is often said to those who are not supposed to be there, and those who deserve to be processed are sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia, day by day walking around Serbia and only increasing their property. While incarceration is often pressured by detainees to allegedly qualify as perpetrators of crimes, and they are promised a quick exit. Often so, they become protected witnesses, but after leaving for freedom, aware of what they did, they very often raise their hand to themselves. This is all created in one triangle – police, court and media. Mostly political opponents do that. There has never been more talk about democracy, about protecting human rights in Serbia than since 5 October, from the revolution until today. Recently, we have had the opportunity to declare in this House the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, which points to an increase in the level of human rights in Serbia, and in fact, from day to day, smaller and smaller, from day to day, are increasingly at risk. A good example of endangered human rights is SRS President Dr Vojislav Seselj. Approximately, Serbia's judiciary is turning into The Hague tribunal, because it is known that the detention there lasts five, six, even more years, so I'm only talking about detention. This is well prescribed in Serbia, especially abuse and violation of human rights, when the district court and the Belgrade district attorney's office have established so-called. A special department and a special prosecutor's office, who called themselves the special department of the D.A.'s office and the special department of the court. They really behave in a special but non-constitutional and extra-legal way. They don't apply the Constitution and the law. What other problem arises? In the Republic of Serbia, i.e. 20 years in Serbia, no analysis of criminal sanctions has been carried out, and we are well aware that even below the minimum for the most serious crimes. Only a few data: 96% is below the legal minimum, 89% of all prison sentences below minimum, for taking bribes. When it comes to rape, in 87% of cases, fines are imposed below the legal minimum, and when it comes to two more difficult forms of rape, an even higher percentage of penalties imposed below the legal minimum. When it comes to detention, we have a statement made by the State Secretary of Justice – we now have 9,974 detainees and prisoners. According to an analysis by the Council of Europe, there should be about 12,000 prisoners in Serbia compared to the number of people. So, the EU and the Council of Europe are designing the number of prisoners needed! That is why we today have the choice of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors in this way – so that they can meet the decisions of the EU and the Council of Europe. Gentlemen, I must warn you that you will never have an opposition in the SRS. We will never be an opposition to the citizens of Serbia, but we will be a real opposition to you. If you want the Salonian opposition, you can find it; you've already found it and you've found them a place on Uncle Ljubina's street. They're a little opposition, they're a little power, they can find... One man was here yesterday; I understand that someone forgets ideology, it's possible, but to forget mathematics, mathematics is an exact science. The main opposition party is the SRS. But we disagree, in the next election it will be a positional party and take the citizens of Serbia to where it is, to co-operate with everyone who recognizes us. To begin with, our friends, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, are those who have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence. Whether they are EU members or not, it is a minor problem, but among them you are looking for, after Russia, advisers. We'll know who we'll be working with after the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16780	Thank you. The word is Mr. Nikola Žutić.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16781	Gentlemen, I would like to refer to the candidates of the High Council of the judiciary proposed by the law school, the academic professor of Dr. Slobodan Perovic, professor of Dr. Zoran Tomic, who are candidates of five state schools, and professor of Dr. Momcilo Grubac, who was a candidate of four private universities. Already, the first two candidates of state law schools give them a scientific and professional advantage over Professor Grubac. It is good, as counterpart Krasic said, that Professor Grubač withdrew his candidacy. However, Grubač should be presented as a candidate for private universities and should be discussed, as this case illustrates what kind of candidate he proposes indirectly and DS. Professor Grubač doctored in the full voltage of Cardell's self-government doctrine about subsidizing everything and everything, and so on rights and states. Namely, he received his doctorate in 1973 in Ljubljana, with the theme "Transmission of Criminal Judicial Functions from the State to the Society". It's the time of the so-called time. self-government decentralisation and decommissioning of the federalised state of Yugoslavia. The disintegration of the state is being carried out, and so is disintegration of the judiciary. The Supreme Courts of Vojvodina and Cosmeta are established. They're being created, so countries in the country. In the 1970s, fatal by Serbia and the Serb people, Professor Grubac was in high legislative and educational functions. He was produced by the New Sad Law School from 1975 to 1977, 1979 and 1980 and the Dean of the same university. He was probably working to strengthen the state-owned constitutionality of the Vojvodina in the Yugoslav Federation. Namely, he was a member of the legislative committees in Serbia and Vojvodina's parliaments. In the late 1990s, Grubač's Hague ideological-political engagement began. Namely, after 5 October 2000, he initiated war crimes trials; on 5 November 2000, he said the SRJ must co-operate with The Hague tribunal. At the time, he told the Milosevic-era judiciary that it was a politically conducted judiciary that listened to what the political authority thought, as it awaited the authority's order, and was not governed by the law. He concluded that there was no war crimes-related process. He was a great optimist on the issue of an independent judiciary after 2000, because he was a rodent of a new democratic age in which, according to him, the judiciary was separated from political influence, independent of one's political will and strictly in accordance with the law. In addition to his 2001 pro-Hag campaign, he published the book "The Hague in Belgrade's eyes", and discussed in Opatija the same year on procedural and legal issues that appear before The Hague tribunal. For the anti-Serbian newspaper "Time" on 9 November 2000, the interview titled "The Hague Court is impartial". The team says: "The court cannot make political remarks. The court is guaranteed objectivity, independence and impartiality. His composition was attended by top, elite judges, unpromised in their national courts. They come from stable democratic legal order, in which the issue of judicial independence has long been cleared. Their authority is so much that they cannot be suspected of its objectivity and the impartiality of their judgments." The post-festum we all saw to it that the UN court ruled against the Serbs, and the likes of Muslims, Shiparas and Croats. It should not be forgotten that Professor Grubac, on June 26th 2001, as justice minister, handed over to the District Court in Belgrade the UN tribunal's request to hand Slobodan Milosevic over to the tribunal. In accordance with the international ideological and political work, since 2005, he has become professor of Law Faculty of Union University, a private university which is the legal institution of the international dissidents from the state legal colleges, which is critical of the Serbian state, traditional legal institutions, traditional churches, especially towards the SPC. However, the Union's international legal experts in the media are Satanizing the Serbian people. The former university dean, Prof. Vladimir Vednelic, calls on Serbs to face their past, possibly criminally, and does not invite their Croatian countrymen to face all crimes committed against Serbs during the 20th century. Several university professors of "Union" are activists of NGOs at the Centre for the Advancement of Legal Studies, founded in 1998. The centre unpunishedly insults and Satanises the state of Serbia, Serbs and other citizens of Serbia. They have launched legal projects related to the legal overcoming of the past, through lustration laws, the law on opening files of the State Security Service, etc. It is known that Prof. Dr. Costa Chavoski called the lustration simply a simple cleanup. I would like to point out that the Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies is a member of the Coalition Against Discrimination, including the Swedish Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, the Gay Straight Alliance, the Youth for Human Rights Initiative, Labris, the Anti-Trafficing Center and others. On 6 March 2009, the coalition told the government to urgently adopt an unaltered Law on Prohibiting Discrimination. Furthermore, the centre, whose activists are individual teachers of Union Law School, and probably Professor Grubac, along with Women in Black, is demanding that Serbia accept EU standards concerning the dispute of war crimes and Holocaust, so that Serbs themselves accuse themselves of contesting genocide in Srebrenica. In doing so, no word mentions crimes against Serbs in Sarajevo, Tuzla, Srebrenica, before Srebrenica, Krajina and elsewhere. Furthermore, the Centre for the Promotion of Legal Studies, then, the Fund for Humanitarian Law, the Women in Black, the Helsinki Committee for Human Rights, the Youth for Human Rights Initiative and others demanded that July 11th in Serbia be accepted as a day of memory of the Srebrenica genocide. Academy of Slobodan Perovic, also a candidate for the High Council of the Judiciary, which was proposed by five state-level colleges, is just criticised by Grubac's colleague with Union, former Serbian Supreme Court Judge Prof. Zoran Ivosevic, who says the candidacy of the first man of the Kopanic School of Natural Rights is extremely controversial, because, respectively, he is not politically independent. Ivosevic probably forgets that there are very few judges in this country who are politically independent. Gentlemen, the Supreme Council of the judiciary is, as we all know here, a very powerful institution. As you know, she elects and relieves judges, decides on the termination of the judge's office, on their transfer, in the procedures of evaluation of the work of the judges and the president of the court, appoints judges of the jury, decides on the immunity of judges and members of the council, proposes the Assembly's election and resolution of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and Judges and others. In view of all of the above, Professor Grubač, in case he was elected, would therefore lead a staff policy to appoint judges of problematic ideological policy profile by state and national interests. But since Grubach withdrew his candidacy, two candidates remain. The government needs to think carefully about who they're going to choose in this powerful body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16782	The word is Mr Nebojsa Rangelovic. The remaining time for the LDP parliamentary group is four minutes and 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16783	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the time you warned me about is quite enough to ask a few questions. I wish there was someone from the government, too, to ask adequate questions to the Ministry of Justice, but the issues concern the ruling majority. One question that sublimes all of this that I want to talk about is: is this the resolution of the crisis in which our judiciary is located, or is it just a drop that will pour a glass? Namely, I would like to remind myself of what we have been doing on the issue of judicial laws and on the situation in the judiciary and in the previous mandate of the National Assembly and in this current mandate, to remind ourselves that in Serbia, the Law on Criminal Procedure, which is inapplicable and not applicable, is in force, and that we are not subject to a derecognizable law on criminal proceedings, which we have even updated, which is unacceptable in the legal normation technique, so that we do not have a scandalous release of criminals from prison. All of this was swallowed up by this congregation, in order to somehow emerge from the crisis in which our judiciary is located. We have in front of us the papers on which are the personnel proposals for the High Council of the Judiciary and for the State's Major Prosecutors. In addition to the proposed staff solutions, a question can be asked whether the proposaler took care of the geographical representation of the representatives in the bodies for which these representatives were proposed? Will these bodies be able to be selected in an adequate way or will we be able to re-shape two-thirds of the body that will have two-thirds of the members, and will, accordingly, work with two-thirds of the members? A question like this is self-inflicted. We know how we passed the Anti-discrimination Act, 127 MPs voted. It is a shame that it was such a narrow majority and that the law was barely passed, with the help of LDP MPs. Will the ruling majority lead us into such a situation this time so that there are not enough MPs to vote on the proposals of all the proposings and are we going to have again a pile of bodies that will work with two-thirds of the members and satisfy the form, not the essence? I would also like the representatives of the government, but also the representatives of the ruling majority to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16784	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16785	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the camera tells us everything. I think it's a more serious atmosphere in a session where the council of the local community is elected, than in the Serbian Parliament today when we need to discuss the members of the country's most important judicial institutions -- the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. To make the matter worse, these sessions are not attended by authorised representatives of the promoters, and there is no, as far as I can see, Mr Bosko Ristic, chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration. No one from Serbia's Bar Association, no one from Serbia's law school, no one from the High Council of Justice. We can only read about the quality of the candidates that are proposed from short biographies that they have provided. There is no one here who would say what it is that the candidates are recommended to be members of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, i.e. the State Council of the Prosecutors, in a country where the judicial system collapses in every way possible, starting with the adoption of bad laws by which judges will be re-elected, and already with the judge, there is a fear of whether they will be re-elected to that function, the party commissioners of the DS are running across Serbia and spreading false information – you will be re-elected with the judge, and you will not, and so there will be evil blood among the judges; from the Minister of Economics telling judges, in the light of the recommendation, to suspend work disputes; from having to V.D. Serbia's Supreme Court President elects, i.e. to appoint a lady who is only famous for what she did to that famous lapus "We've got, excuse me, we've reached a verdict for the murderers of Zoran Djindjic" etc. It is the best image for the ruling coalition, and it is the best proof of how much they care for the judiciary in Serbia to be serious, responsible and independent. They don't need that kind of justice. They need a judiciary that is obedient and will absolutely fulfil every order of the regime of Boris Tadic and the Ministry of Justice, as its exposure. Today, when we are discussing members of the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, we cannot help but look at the scandal that took place today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when Boris Tadic prevented the debate from taking place here, that is to say, to ask questions to the competent ministers about what was done in co-operation with The Hague tribunal, what are the results and what are the consequences of this co-operation. Of course, anyone who is politically written is clear why this scandal happened. Boris Tadic's regime does not want to be openly, publicly, before Serbian citizens to discuss how harmful it is for Serbia, its citizens and the whole Serbian people to co-operate with the so-called. The Hague tribunal. Last year, Ms Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic announced here that the UN General Assembly accepted the initiative to ask the International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion on whether Kosovo and Metohija's declaration of independence was carried out in February of last year in accordance with international law. We received a defeating ruling from The Hague tribunal some time ago, where the complete political, military and police summit of the Serbian state, except Milan Milutinovic, was found guilty and sentenced to dragon sentences for alleged crimes against Shiptars in Kosovo and Metohija after the start of NATO aggression in 1999. Of course, the regime of Boris Tadic was afraid that we would ask questions not only about the position of Vojislav Seselj in The Hague tribunal and the violation of its human and procedural rights, but that we would seek information about what the state of Serbia has done specifically (when I say the state of Serbia then I mean the Boris Tadic regime) to help people who have been convicted before The Hague tribunal for so-called. Kosovo crimes. Only a political ignorant, only someone who is extremely politically illiterate, who is a political shortsighted sees no connection between opinions that will give the International Court of Justice and the fact that these people who represented Serbia's top state, military and police leadership are accused of dragon sentences to prison for alleged crimes against the Shiptars of Kosovo and Metohija in 1999. Instead of having an open debate here in the Serbian Parliament, what the state of Serbia has done to help defend the Hague indictees in so-called. The Kosovo case, which was the mechanisms available to the state of Serbia, the foreign ministry, the justice ministry, the Ministry of Defence, the interior ministry, to help defend these people. They are citizens of Serbia. Of course, for the Boris Tadic regime, these are personalities from the dark 1990s. But the regime is quite hypocritical; there are some dark personalities from the 1990s and those that aren't so dark. Those who are not so dark are members of the Socialist International. They're desirable coalition partners to build a government to rob citizens. They have others from the dark 1990s, they should be sentenced before The Hague tribunal for 40 years and we don't care about these people. The regime was thinking in the short term. He had to help these people not because of themselves, of course, and because of them, because of the citizens of Serbia, but primarily because of the state of Serbia, because of the fact, which is already publicly commented on in the scientific, diplomatic and political circles in Serbia and outside Serbia, that the content of the International Court of Justice's advisory opinion will have a crucial impact on whether the declaration of independence is so-called. The Republic of Kosovo by Shipara in 2008 either in accordance with international law or not, to be based, unfortunately, on the proven guilt of these people and that they are responsible for crimes against Albanians. What do you think the International Court of Justice will take into account the fact that Pavkovic and the others are convicted of being expelled by more than 700,000 Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, that hundreds have been killed? What do you think the International Court of Justice is going to do? In this situation, rather than having an open debate on what the Serbian state has done and what it can still do for these people, the Boris Tadic regime through you sitting here in the National Assembly, through the National Assembly president, deliberately obstructs the debate. The debate on what the state of Serbia has done and what it can still do has been deliberately obstructed, in order to get the public's attention off the Kosovo and Metohija issues, because the Kosovo and Metohija issue has been resolved for the Boris Tadic regime. Everything else is done is a farce. To ask Boris Tadic what he thinks intimately, he will tell you – Kosovo and Metohija is lost. He is also leading such a policy, and that is why it is more important now to discuss the rights of homosexuals, to publicly express their sexual orientation, than to hold a debate in the Serbian Parliament on the extent of the current regime's guilt over the fact that these people are for so-called people. Kosovo crimes convicted in The Hague tribunal. Today, when you had to respect the Rules of Procedure, when you had to schedule only one session with only one agenda – the results and consequences of Serbia's co-operation with The Hague tribunal, you were able to avoid it by making a political cocktail, we're going to talk about the Hague, we're going to talk a little bit about the Vojvodina Statute, we're going to talk about why it's raining, or why the wind is blowing, so the citizens of Serbia don't know what the priority is anymore; the homosexuals, the Statute of Vojvodina, The Hague, the tax that increases by 6%, the fact that by the end of 2009, 300,000 people will be out of work, everything is mixed. That's what you did on purpose, not just you sitting here, but those who are your mentors in the country and out of the country, and that's your big fault. The High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors won't look anything like anything. You will select people who will be your party hearers and then be the end of the only professional government in Serbia, the judicial authorities; it will be exclusively under the control of the regime. The judge will no longer be allowed to do anything without asking for an opinion, at the very least, from the minister of justice and possibly from the president himself. The fact that a procedure for the resolution of the three Supreme Court judges of Serbia has been launched for conditional release of Milorad Bracanovic is the best proof of that. The judge will no longer be allowed to do anything without consulting the regime first. This is what you need – a judiciary that is under Boris Tadic's boot.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16786	The word is Mr. Momir Markovic. The remaining time is 29 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16787	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, unlike my predecessors, I fully understand the government's representatives for not coming today. For the past two days, the ruling majority has solved them with very difficult questions, got sick of people, got scared of people, so they didn't come. The questions, by the way, were: "Influence the gamma air on the spooky brides", whether it threatens us with a crisis – threatens us, if we're going to get out of the crisis – we will. I watched on TV this morning as questions and answers were coming and I can tell you that they found themselves in an unprotected grape. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Serbia, not to lie, this is the last attempt to put Nero from across the street under his boot all three branches of government. This one already has, the government already has, this is a way for its people to choose and put judicial authority under the boot, and the Rules of Procedure recently brought in an attempt to put the legislative authority under control. Then you can go to Europe. Since we are already at a low start for entry into Europe, 20 years have passed quickly, in the meantime we have to adopt these European laws, and this is also one of the conditions for us to get closer to Europe. The High Council of Justice and the High Council of the Prosecutors shall appoint and dismiss prosecutors and deputy prosecutors and judges of primary and district courts. We pick them on a proposal from the Bar Association, and from the university. I think it's realistic to expect the waist to say its word. However, when it is known that both in these universities and in those law chambers, there is a very "yellow company", then the situation is quite clear to you. Of course, by function, both Bosko Ristic, Bole International or, as they already call it after Serbia, Bole Boreli enters both bodies. He was nicknamed recently when all the places the former Croatian firm Borovo had in Serbia... He represented "Borovo" and returned all the clubs to the Croatian firm "Borovo". When I asked him like this, in an unrelated conversation, he says -- how can we expect them to return ours if we don't get back there? Fifty thousand apartments, 500,000 Serbs were expelled from Croatia, but Bole Borelli returns bars to court, returns bars to Croatia. I don't know, but since I know him, I don't think he was doing anything for nothing. When Bole Borelli enters these two bodies, from Batocina down to Preshevo and here to the Powders, he will hardly be chosen by a prosecutor or judge who is not Boletto at will. Since time is going so fast, I will refer only to this proposal made by the High Council of Justice, or the State Major Prosecutors. First, how could the chairman of Slobodan Radosevic... We don't have a president, we don't have a D.A., we have an employee. It seems that all of Serbia is in V.D. The state, and the prosecution. Otherwise, let's face it, both prosecutors and judges are doing a very responsible job. They were doing a very responsible job and doing it, because it's about human fate and life, in the end. Those functions must be precisely responsible, not by key, not by aunt, not by party, not by any other. What surprised me is that the name of Vukčević appears in this proposal. To remind you, this is the same Vukcevic who is now the prosecutor of the Special Court of War Crimes, the same one that caught the pigeon writers to take the message, the same one that sent the last piece of paper to The Hague tribunal, but that is why he did not find it appropriate to forward one copy to those indicted in front of the UN tribunal, that they too have. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that the moment these proposals are adopted and when these people are elected, they will set up and name the twilight of the Serbian judiciary. I call on the ruling party's MPs, if they dare from Nero from across the street, and in particular I call on the opposition party's MPs to account for whom they place high office and who will make our hat tomorrow. Then I'm afraid Bole Borelli, he's just gonna miss the cantar, instead of these people measuring who will, how much, why and when to serve or pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16788	Thank you. The word is Mr. Mirko Munjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16789	Ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed laws in the area of justice in our time, we in the SRS pointed to certain fundamental differences and the wrong concept of these laws. One of the main concerns that we have been pointing to at the time and which we are now pointing to is that there is a sub-premation or predominance of the executive authority over all other branches of government, and therefore also according to the judicial authority. All the power in this country is concentrated in the hands of a political party. All power is concentrated in the hands of one man. One centre of power controls the choice of judges, the election of the president of the courts, and thus the choice of judges in higher court cases, so here, when choosing the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors. By not recognising and guaranteeing the acquired rights that are guaranteed to them and by the Constitution, one of the basic constitutional principles has been violated, so that, it can be said, a lustration of judges has been introduced at the small door. Only politically similar judges are elected, others remain on white bread. The adoption of such laws in the area of justice undermines another principle, which is the principle of impartiality in the exercise of judicial office. I can say that The Hague tribunal is a place where the violation of this principle represents, indeed, a prototype of how it is done. Basic human rights are being undermined there, especially Serbs. It's a place where there's really a lot to learn, but in a negative context, and you're really doing it in the air. The violation of the principle of impartiality here directly has something else to do with us, which is the awakening of something that represents the cancer of our society, which is corruption. It is usually said that the law is like a spider – the hornet breaks it, and the fly is caught. That's how it is with you in power, the horned spring, and you, like, catch flies. Will the High Council of the judiciary, in the composition proposed by these proposals, provide and guarantee the independence and independence of courts and judges, which is its constitutional obligation under Article 153 of the Constitution of Serbia? Here we point to one principled remark, which is that at least one representative of the promoters should have been here and reasonedally explain all the individual proposals, so that we would actually come to the conclusion that they are the best. Of the 11 members of the High Council of the judiciary, three are in office: the president of the Supreme Cassation Court, the minister of justice and the chairman of the Justice Committee, and eight elects the Assembly. Can several shrewd sentences on the proposed candidates guarantee that the body will be independent and independent and that it will guarantee the independence and independence of the persons they choose, therefore, the president of the courts and judges? For example, the chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Bosko Ristic, is a member of the office and, by interest, a lawyer and a MP. If he directly elects the judges and president of the courts, the question arises whether it is a conflict of interest and whether it is a direct influence on the judges on the other hand? I'm sure it is. There's a nice saying, don't mind my fellow lawyers, and that saying says - it's better to be a mouse in a cat's mouth than to be a client in the lawyer's hands. It is a Latin saying, and I would say – it is better to be a mouse in the cat's mouth than to be president of the court and judge in the hands of Bosko Ristić at the time of his election as a member of the High Council of the judiciary. The speedy adoption of these laws, as well as the speedy choice of these high state institutions, really leads to nothing. However, all of this will in the final instance reflect the position of Serbian citizens as participants in numerous disputes. I'll remind you of a number of unsolved cases of criminal, illegal and mob privatisations. They are not being resolved not because the judges and prosecutors are not professional, but precisely for the reasons that I initially cited, which is the supremacy of the executive authority in relation to the judicial authority. So prosecutors and judges don't solve these cases because there's someone above them who normally tells them how and at what point they're going to solve a case. But with you in power, that speedy solution doesn't lead to anything, because in fact, whether it's accelerated or slowed down, it doesn't matter to you. As long as you're in charge of the citizens, it's like, "If you go slow, there's an accident, if you go faster, you get the accident," so it's actually with you, as long as you're in power, it doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16790	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta. The remaining time is 16 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we continue the debate on the proposal of candidates for members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and of the State Council of Prosecutors, but in the morning we were under obligation, namely you from the ruling majority, were obliged to allow the SRS parliamentary group to speak about a subject of exceptional importance to us, not only to the SRS but to all Serbia, and that is what is happening in The Hague tribunal and the consequences for Serbia and Serbia's national interests. This morning, in the most harsh way possible, you have trampled both the Constitution of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the parliamentary rights, and you have really no longer the moral right to appeal to any regulation anywhere, and it is absolutely pointless that you bring regulations at all, because you do not adhere to them at all. That's not just today, and that's not just the case with the Rules of Procedure. It simply became a "yellow company" manner. You're pushing your own. Where it says so, you don't care. What responsibility it's supposed to be, you don't care. You act like you'll be the majority government in Serbia. You know you won't, but when these same regulations apply to you when you're an opposition, you'll see what it looks like. We'll even guarantee you that we'll apply those regulations. We won't break them, unlike you. Today you have made it impossible for us, you have actually tried to disable it, but we will certainly use our parliamentary right again, and we will use all the time available on every subject, because we will not accept what Slavica Djukić-Dejanović and Gordana Comić are trying to impose, approximately to get you to write us a synopsis of what we are going to talk about. We will talk about what we think is a topic of interest to the citizens of Serbia. You prevented us from talking about the subject we wanted to discuss this morning by organising two parliamentary groups using the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure for only one parliamentary group. I suggest that, once again, when we have such an initiative, you organize yourself within the ruling majority, so as many parliamentary groups as you have, you probably don't know until you look at the records, so all as many of you as there are some topics, so try to stop us from talking, first of all, about the status of our president in The Hague tribunal, about how many Serbs were convicted in The Hague tribunal, how many were killed in The Hague. Yesterday, I watch Boris Tadic smile on Brammertz and explain how Serbia delivered 44 Serbs to The Hague tribunal, how we will do everything possible to end those obligations to The Hague tribunal. A man laughs, what our people would say – what a wise man is ashamed of... You know the other part of that proverb. The question we wanted to talk about is, among other things, Brammertz's visit, but what's interesting will probably be heard only when Brammertz leaves the chief prosecutor of the Hague tribunal, as we are able to read something that could be called the memoirs of Carla del Ponte in her book, which confirmed what we Serbian radicals have been talking about for years – that the charges against Vojislav Seselj were written in Serbia, that it was written on the orders of Zoran Djindjic. You laughed at us when we talked about it, and here you see, your former friend Carla del Ponte said that on 17 August 2000 at the airport in Lugana Zoran Djindjic asked her to take Seselj to The Hague and not return him to Serbia. We now expect Brammertz, when he writes some of his memoirs, to let us know that Boris Tadic told him at every meeting – he keeps Seselj in The Hague as long as possible, do not return him to Serbia. We know that you are afraid of Seselj's return to Serbia, as we know that most of Serbia is eager to return to Serbia, because he is the only one, along with his large and faithful Serbian Radical Party, who will take Serbia out of the fungi that you have introduced it to, both economically and socially, and politically and whoever you want. You destroyed everything that could have been destroyed in Serbia. Now you're gonna have to get those poor people out of the container when they're taking out the leftover food that someone's still throwing away, because they live on 12,000 dinars of pay. You're going to have to get them out of there, taxing their salary of 12,000 dinars. If this is funny to you, you should be ashamed. Let it be a shame to you, just let the camera shoot you, I have no idea where you're from, since you've never called to say anything, to be seen by your fellow citizens living out of 12,000 dinars. So, what else did you try to cover up? Last night, Serbian citizens were able to monitor the trial of Vojislav Seselj, a delayed transfer from The Hague that started at 11:30, but nearly ten minutes after the start of the transfer was not shown. Why? Because during that period, Vojislav Seselj spoke about his health, because the president of the court council spoke about reading in some Belgrade newspapers what was said about Seselj's health. You didn't want Serbian citizens to hear it, and that's why you initially cut that part that was interesting. Also, we haven't been able to ask Rasim Ljajic and the Prime Minister today, but here we are now informing Serbian citizens that they are preparing another process in The Hague tribunal against Vojislav Seselj. He has no idea what else he's going to be accused of, what else he's done, how he wronged himself about the rules of the UN tribunal or one of the witnesses, the man who's been incarcerated for the seventh year in The Hague. As you can see, you couldn't, and you can't stop us, you couldn't even have Gordana Comic here, but I have to take advantage of part of the time and talk about what's really the topic of today and today's debate. You're talking about judicial reform. Mrs. Malovic, here this morning, has hurriedly jumped for a pay phone several times to explain how the "yellow company" sees the future status of Vojvodina, and today it is not to discuss what is the topic. I'd just like to ask her why, for who knows which time, she's already bringing tea and the Serbian Parliament and the judiciary and the judicial authorities. I remind you, first of all, the public of Serbia -- you don't really care about it, you don't even know that it happened, you're just here to push buttons -- if we had extended the law on criminal proceedings on the last working day of last year, because if we hadn't done it, we'd have chaos in the judiciary. At that time, we from the SRS voted for it, not for you, but because it was in the interest of the Serbian citizens. Today we are discussing these proposals, and the deadline for their adoption is April 30th. So, you're always working at the last minute, like you're not even taking care of what your obligation is, but simply, I guess the secretary told her – you know, Madam Minister, that we're running out of time for this, so she said - give me a faster or better time to call the bar, to call all those who made their proposals. That's how you work, and the Justice Minister, and the Ministry, and the whole government and all of you in the congregation are acting, as the people would say, like geese in the fog. Until then, the country sinks, the people live harder and harder. Of course, that doesn't affect you and don't worry about it. As the executive authority interferes with the work of independent and independent (so should be) judicial authorities best shows what we are talking about here today. These days you've seen everyone, you read, I suppose, the newspaper, how the Ministry of Economy behaves. The Ministry of Economy, imagine, but through the Ministry of Justice, sends a letter to the Supreme Court and asks that no labour disputes, which are otherwise of an urgent nature, be ruled out, and that where they are already completed, judicially ended disputes do not go into effect, i.e. that workers who, apparently in an illegal manner, are left without a job are not paid compensation to protect themselves, or to protect some employers. There is really no such thing as a cartoon, but there is one in the government of Boris Tadic. Nebojsa Ciric is the state secretary from the ministry. He, a man, I suppose, ordered him to give a press statement, says – I wrote it and I take responsibility. Who is he, and how can he write that? They're stories for little kids. That's what Junior thought, he's usually known for it, even when he was talking – what verdict of the Supreme Court, I don't care about the Supreme Court's verdict, I'll do what I want. Sure, he can, but he can't go as far as he wants. Also, Nebojsa Ciric and Mr. Homen, who is also a state secretary, but at the ministry of justice, are in conflict of interest. These days, you saw, a procedure was initiated because they were directly involved, or tried to interfere with the work of the judicial authorities. There is nothing better with the Minister of Justice, who first suspends some people there in Pogorevc, and then leads Boško Ristić to take pictures in Zabela, and then says, "Oh, my God, I didn't do it right, those in Pogorevec are not responsible, those in the Supreme Court are responsible. Of course, he doesn't mention their names. It's about the minister of justice acting so that the judges, who are still terrified of reelection, are not allowed to look at the case file, but have to look at the name and last name, so they can see if they like that name or whether it's "yellow" or if it's someone who's kind of resentful to them. This is how the ministry works, and this is how the government of the Republic of Serbia works, and this is how you influence judicial authorities in Serbia. Here are mentioned several times by Mr. Bosko Ristic and Mrs. Malovic, as members of the High Council of the judiciary. It's really something that's scary. Remember, and the citizens of Serbia remember, when Bosko Ristic was the chairman of the Justice and Administration Committee, when you were "yellow" with the bugger and bulldozer took over, so when he began to distribute his office in the judiciary: that one there is the secretary of the agricultural cooperative – the president of the court, the one there for the first time (i.e. Krasic) elected judge, and five minutes after that he was elected president of the court! And now this Bosko Ristic will burn and burn. It is indeed something that will have a negative impact on the judiciary. That's why they're already threatening. Here, look, we have a solution here. Boris Tadic, who apparently acts like Boris Broz, was sued because even during the time of Serbian kings, measures were expressed if the king was sued. But, Boris Tadic -- no, he told a notorious lie. He says -- he is proposed to reconsider the proposal with the defendant's hearing, that is Tadic, as a litigator. They believe that the Institute of the ZPP does not know, because it was such a decision, and says that because of the facts and circumstances of the General Court, it is not possible to carry out evidence by hearing the defendant as a litigator. If anyone understands this, it's an honor. Here, just how much time I have left, Mr. Novakovic, if I exceed 10-12 seconds, don't mind, just to mention the verdict we received from the District Court in Belgrade, which concerns the annulment of this illegal or temporary council's decision in Zemun when it comes to the election of a new Municipal Election Commission. The first thing they did was form a new electoral commission, and before they fire several people without any legal basis, to form their own public procurement commission, so they can bite what's in Zemun. Look what they've done and why, among other things, this decision has been annulled. Day 18. 3. have informed the SRS that it should propose its members for members and deputies of members of the Municipal Election Commission and do so by 20. 3, to be proposed, and those at the third session of their 18th session 3. They are already making a decision on the formation of a commission. Can you believe someone can do this kind of legal nebulosis and stupidity? This means, and this is from the reasoning of the verdict, I conclude with this – that when the election commission is to be formed to hold extraordinary local elections in this municipality, it must be taken into account for the relative number of committees in the disbanded Assembly of the Municipality, and that the proposal for the assembly of the electoral commission can be made by those political parties that had committee groups in the local self-government unit assembly. No, they were there now, but of course the decision was annulled, and the Socialists, and the LDP, and the G17 and all those who did not cross the censorship. (President: 47 seconds. I'm sorry. So, because of what you're doing, there will be chaos in the judiciary, but, gentlemen of the judges and prosecutors, there will be no law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16792	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93? He has the word Mr. Zoran Krasic. Your time is set for another 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16793	The public needs to understand that a few months ago we had the opportunity to hear from this side that these laws on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors are so important that they ensure the independence and independence of the courts and ensure, above all, the independence of the prosecution, and you see today, when it comes to considering who the proposed candidates are - the representatives of the authorities are gone, it is no longer important for them. They don't care about the subject anymore. Of all our criticisms about this concept, they keep on defending themselves with silence. I now have to remind viewers that on 17 February 2003, according to Carla del Ponte, she wrote clearly in her book "Lov", Zoran Djindjic, as Prime Minister, asked her to lead Vojislav Seselj and never return him to Serbia again. When we talked about it at that very time, no one believed us. As a rule, when radicals say something, they criticize it, people take it with the infidel, but it's been two, three days, five, a month, two months, half a year, and it turns out it's all true. Of course, what I'm about to tell you is true. In Kusturica's film "Underground" there is a scene when a monkey enters the tank, so the audience says – disaster, monkey in the tank. Because of that disaster, it shoots the wall, people come out into the light. Now, such a disaster hit us on January 25, 2001, and it lasted all around until February 2004. There will always be a disaster in this country when the Democratic Party leads the state, because they are a democratic standard – their whim, their will, their desire, just them. The world's pensioners because ten years ago they didn't vote for them and there's no 70% of their salary, that's what they cheated on you. They said 500,000 new jobs, and 300,000 people have to lose their jobs. What Mrs. Radeta just said here, that statement and that request to the Supreme Court are intended to upset those who work and those who do not work. Because those who don't work go to court and seek their rights. If this is a request for the Supreme Court to stop these proceedings, block them, then what they're doing should be said – if they succeed in the process, there would be a blockade of our company. They fight people, they fight people. Imagine the shame and scandal. I'm not sure if this Vladimir is called Vukcevic or Kandic? It's supposed to be some kind of prosecutor. You have that co-operation bill of yours. When did you raise your voice about human rights violations of Vojislav Seselj and anyone else in The Hague? Vojislav Seselj is also intending to launch a third procedure, only to hold him for as long as possible, so Boris Tadic can finish his dirty work with his helpers. You saw what it looked like this morning -- allegedly, they're arguing, they're arguing, they swear, this guy would never deliver to anyone, and he betrayed both his best man and his friend. Once a traitor, always a traitor, you know. Apparently, the dirty work is not done – the issue of Vojvodina and the issue to be raised because of some allegedly regionalisation, and under the new constitution, every forest will be able to build an autonomous province, until Serbia comes down to Belgrade's pasture. Who did you propose and what did you suggest? You've done your job. You'll have trouble with the first competition. You'll have problems, I don't think some of the people you've suggested here will agree to what you're asking them to do. You have three irreplaceable members, by function, in both organs. Just say "Bosko Ristic" enough to make it clear that the problem is that someone got into the tank. That's clear. You have to understand that. Yesterday they were looking forward to that epic law of theirs, which they no longer have to hide, and now the judges are going to enforce that law so that no one can tell the truth. But you did it for nothing. Dear citizens, believe me, from May 1st there will be a constant competition for ministers and no one will answer. No one puts this together anymore, which exists here. It is not a problem that they broke as a Bulgarian assembly, that government there, the problem is that they are fundamentally destroying the state. From Boris Tadic you can only listen to a sentence – I will not sign an independent Kosovo. You won't hear anything else from him. The vault is empty, it could not even be valid for that ad – mice eat euro. A crack, 30 - 40 billion dinars are missing daily to serve neatly. What's he doing in this country? He's not doing anything. Their programme is – the worse, the better; the worse for the people, the better for a small group of people. And they're being treated like some politicians. Where are your results? Where's something good for the people? There isn't. Where you pass, everything is burned. You'll probably fall out of power just the day a renovated Federal Assembly building opens up. Or you'll light it again. You crime fighters? Have you solved who burned down the National Assembly? Did you solve the problem of who beat those people up in front of RTS? Did you solve the problem of who's a traitor to the BIA? Who runs this country? "Resistance." Montgomery installed them here. A few days ago, you picked Chupico in that agency. American people run the country. You others, who are the original Democrats, must not write "retor". You have a supervisor. In the last eight years, the only good thing that's happened is that today is the first time Gordana Comic has come out for this pay phone to talk, so no one's got a ticket, because she was behind this pay phone. If he were in that place over there, you'd see how it goes. Are you people aware, you gave me a warning because I read a member of the Constitution?- I'm sorry. Where's that on the globe? And you talk about parliamentaryism, you who vote from Bodrum, you who arrest twelve or thirteen thousand people in one drink! The state still can't pay the damages. There are Ostojić and Vukcevic, not to order, all checked personnel, with a five- or six-year staff on these jobs from which they come, checked staff. Does anyone know who's acting as district attorney in Belgrade? No one has a clue. She doesn't even come there, she goes to the Department of Justice at home. Who's the official of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office? A man who was conditioned for a phone conversation with a lawyer. You brought Serbia to V.D. status. The latest candidate for the High Council of the Judiciary, member of the G17 plus, her husband is a G17 plus, three or four years old, and 40% of the convictions have been lifted. How can she be that caliber whose expertise no one has the need to doubt anymore, because with this first choice she becomes a turbo judge? No one can doubt her qualities. By choosing, they become twice-guaranteed experts, such as twice confirmed the mandate of some people here in the National Assembly, thanks to Mr Konstantinovic, to you and those who did not want to apply the Constitution and the law. Then what are we talking about? Dear citizens, my advice is to guard the children, protect the family, and if there is anything left, make peace with the state. I am neither Zoran Zivkovic nor Bosko Ristic to tell you – throw in the barrels. No, make your priorities and prepare, because it is only in your hands to protect Serbia. These? It's like the one in the tank -- it's tearing everything apart, it's treading everything. Imagine what is happening to them: in a municipality in eastern Serbia, a small group of purgists kidnap the DS board and the DS must not protect its councilman. You see what is the strength and strength of the American ambassador, the English ambassador, those who are in the BIA, those who are in the Ministry of Defense, those who are hidden in the Assembly in some yellow color, those who are messengers between the legal adviser of the American ambassador, called Sam Nazaro and our judiciary. Yeah, that's the verdict you were talking about for Nata Mesarevic. They brought it to us. From where? From the U.S. Embassy. Does that verdict contain the established truth, the established facts? None of them are interested. To them it is important that Đilas, Shaper and others, Željko Mitrić, make a media campaign and cry – Zemun, radicals, and on issues – economy, social, economy, territory, province, centralisation, decentralisation, no talk. Until a few days ago, this was the most important thing for the judiciary. Here are a dozen representatives of the government, neither guilty nor debtors. The living shame eats them because the camera catches them. Why? No one's asking them anything. It's like, "And after Tito-Tito." He spends three hours a day in front of a mirror to see if the media can fit in. That's how they lead us. I've been telling you for days, watch out for those who shower three times a day. Yesterday, the law was passed by those who shower three times a day. It must not be true that it is heard in Serbia. Judges and prosecutors, trust in your profession, in your profession, in your honor, and do not give yourself up. If by any chance you are, and I doubt that this contest will be conducted at all, and rejected, you seek the protection of your rights. See who the candidates are: this woman from Kragujevac - 46% of the judgments abolished, so what was she doing? What's a guarantee of her quality? Her husband may be a member of G17 plus or some other party. It's a shame and a shame. You devalue the state, you insult the dignity of this people. But the weather will improve, be sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2009-03-27-0.u16794	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search on candidate proposals for the selection of members of the first composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the proposals for candidates for the selection of members of the first composition of the State Council of Prosecutors. The National Assembly will hold the election of members of the first High Council of the judiciary and the election of members of the first assembly of the State Council of Prosecutors in the day to vote. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Monday 30 March 2009, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on all agenda points of the 3rd session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2009. Have a nice weekend, have a nice rest and prepare for Monday. Thank you.
