ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e101	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative of Asmund Kristoffersen from 10 December to 14 December to take part in the high-level part of the 13th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the third meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, on behalf of the representative of Mr Hans Olav Syversen on leave from 10 December to 12 December to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in the Washington Christian People's Party Group on the Permit of the Representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund from 10 to 11 December to attend the meeting of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, in Paris On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications are proposed to be examined immediately and accepted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For East-Agder County: Kjell Ingolf RopstadFor More and Romesdal County: Svein GlossethFor Oslo: Aud Kvalbein
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e145	Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Svein Gelseth and Aud Kvalbein are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e151	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings. The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e160	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to create a national plan for wind turbines in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e165	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 12.15 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues beyond the regulatory time until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole, and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e194	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e203	Initially, I would be allowed to thank the members of the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation in relation to the budgetary procedure of the year in the Committee. It is not to be overlooked that as it approaches a budgetary process, in which a large number of actors have made their contributions either through written submissions, open hearings or input to the individual fraction, it is important to focus on what is intended for the whole process, namely finally to arrive at as good a budget as possible, for the benefit of those who need the services for which this Committee is responsible. It is important to be able to keep the daily progress of the Committee in focus, so that the product we deliver becomes the best possible. This, in my view, is clearly in the Committee's hands, and I am therefore opening up this way to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this process. There are enough people who are of the opinion that we politicians are most concerned with verbal fighting and cultivating our disagreements. I would venture the claim that if one could have followed the committee's work in most cases, where one actually tries to reach as far as possible to reach agreement where this is possible, the people would probably have had a different attitude and perception of what we are actually doing. I would venture to believe that this also marks the budgetary position that we have to deal with today. As the first speaker today, I also take the opportunity to warmly welcome the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Committee. I look forward to that cooperation, and then, by following the debate, we get to see how cooperation will work in the coming time, but I actually look forward to that. I would also now like to address all the proposals that the Progress Party either stands alone or is with others in the budgetary position. This also applies to the minority proposal in Innst. S. No 49 for MS treatment. All of our proposals have thus been taken up. All people will need health services, care services, rehabilitation services, etc. several times in their lives. When that day is there and we're the most vulnerable, it's important that we get the help we need, and not least that we get the help at the level it's going to be given. In the budget area governed by regional health enterprises, more than DKK 84 billion will be allocated for the next year. It is true, as the Minister of Health often points out, that we have never given more money to hospitals before than is done for next year. But in the extension of this, it is also important to take into account that we have never before been able to treat so many cases of disease and so many different types of suffering. Nor has the Norwegian population had such a high average life expectancy. This is a desired development, so we have to stop mentioning the increase in the number of older people as a problem. Of course, this presents a challenge, as older people often have many diagnostics that require a high level of competence in order to provide an optimal range of services. One would think it would be a great achievement to train as a specialist in this field, but unfortunately it does not turn out to be the case. Here, there is a strong cross-political consensus that a take-off must be made if we are to meet the needs of the future for special competences in the care of the elderly. Every day you can read in one or more newspapers about hospital deficits, long waiting lists to get to treatment, threats of closures of offers, lack of investment funds, summer-related food departments, poorly maintained buildings, high sick leave, etc. This is in stark contrast to the message sent from the Government that everything is now on the right track in the specialist health service. Of course, it is not that money alone solves all the problems in this field, but that it is relatively much to get to work differently. It is a reality that the reality out there in hospitals suggests that there is also a need for more funds. We could last weekend see on the TV 2 news that the sick leave in several hospitals has now passed 9 pst., and that this again results in empty sick beds and longer waiting times. The undersigned has used this autumn to house several hospitals, so that I could form a better picture of how everyday life and reality are perceived, and how to look at the economic situation of each hospital. It's quite obvious that what's common denominator is that employees do a fantastic job every day to help patients. But it is also quite obvious that very many places now have such a low crew that there is reason to ask yourself the question: how long will this go on? We have to assume that employees have been faced with shifts, savings and cuttings for a longer period of time. Sooner or later, this also affects the working environment. We could read in the newspaper on Friday that the Hospital Buskerud broke the law 463 times in the course of eight summer weeks. At the same time as hospitals report billions of deficits and receive daily fines as a result of a breach of the Working Environment Act, they are required by the authorities to save additional funds next year. The Minister of Health, on behalf of the Government, has stated that next year's government budget will allow room to deal with 1.5 pst. more patients than is the case this year. This is said to increase the allocation to hospitals by NOK 1.79 billion. What we're not talking about in the same way is that in addition to the budget there is an efficiency requirement of NOK 1 billion that needs to be included, before you can get this effect out next year. In addition, new financing tasks are assigned to hospitals, including: to MS medicines, which are not fully financed by next year’s government budget after all sun brands, and hospitals are expected to have a higher operating deficit than that underpinned by the next year’s budget. This must also be included, all the time during which the balance requirement is established. The development of the specialist healthcare system is of concern. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is high time to get a package of measures that could help hospitals, not only in the short term, but over time. The current situation also suggests that in the short term there is only one way to get into port in terms of the budget balance, and that is to reduce patient treatment, all the time the input-driven funding now amounts to only 40 pst. and the basic appropriation of 60 pst. This, together with the fact that the Government has asked regional health companies to reduce the use of private hospitals, now means that the queues have increased only in the last year by 20,000 more patients. The Progress Party has set out in its alternative budget a significant increase in the allocation of regional health enterprises, while also taking a number of other steps to improve the economic situation in the longer term. We suggest that the funding of both TNF-inhibitors and MS-medicines be taken out of hospitals, and that they again be refunded in the usual way by popular concern. We transfer the funds from the project back to the NAV system faster, so that even private individuals can be more involved and contribute. We are increasing significantly the appropriations related to the purchase of rehabilitation facilities, so that the available capacity of existing institutions can be properly used. In this way, we will be able to help the Government achieve its goal in the Soria Moria Declaration of Rehabilitation to everyone who needs it. It's a long way up to this goal today, and even we're in the situation that we've only seen in the last year that every sixth of the rehabilitation beds have been available because of a lack of agreements and the purchase of these places. The alternative budget of the Progress Party provides for an increase for regional health enterprises of about 10 %. DKr 1.7 billion in the basic allocation. In addition, increased investment funds are added. Even with this increase, there will still be a need for changes in this field, and there is every reason to continue working just to look at it to be able to work differently. There is a lot to learn about better interaction between the specialist health service and the community health service. Not least, there will be a lot to be recovered if you are able to significantly increase the level of competence in the care and care services of municipalities, so that you can actually treat patients in the individual nursing home to a much greater extent than at present. However, this requires a much higher level of medical coverage, a greater interaction between hospitals and individual hospitals and, in particular, more resources for care for the elderly. Repeatedly we have heard from this government that there has never been more money allocated to hospitals than is the case now. This is, of course, correct, as I said earlier, all the time Norway has never had as much income as we have now. It is also true that the level of wages and salaries in the health sector has never been higher before. I actually think that the vast majority of governments in the years to come will be able to say the same thing: Never before has anyone given more money to the health sector than this government does. It's going to be exciting to see if there's any government in the future that can't say that. What is, however, a record – and a record that this government should not hold, but that it now has – is that it has never before had higher proportions in health than it will be next year. This is in stark contrast to the Government's own statement, which states that excesses should be reduced and kept at a low level. With this formulation as a backcloth, the increase in next year’s self-esteem 1 – to NOK 1740 – becomes very strange. The only reduction in the excesses that this government has actually achieved is that it removed the partiality of physiotherapy for those on the diagnostic list – otherwise a partial they themselves introduced in the same year. You don't just have to paint black. It is very good that happens in the Norwegian health service. There's a lot going the right way. Never before have more patients been treated. What I would also like to point out as very positive is that money is now being allocated to the establishment of a stem cell research centre at the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital. Here you can see the beginning of something that will hopefully develop over time, and Norway can create an even larger research environment within this field, which is most likely to have a very significant impact on the treatment of diseases in the coming years. I would also like to commend the members of the Government of the Committee, which finally provided some funds for the follow-up to the diabetes plan and strategy. I am not quite as satisfied with the fact that you did not receive fresh funds – you had to re-prioritize, among other things. from regional health businesses – but it is important when making plans and strategies, that we also show that we will follow them up in practice and not just in words. In fact, I will give tribute to the members of the committee from the government parties for their success. However, something we need to focus even more on in the coming time is just research funding. The progress party is very dissatisfied that we haven't been able to put in more resources for medical research than what we actually have. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. Being able to research and operate with development, so that we can help both treat diseases and develop new drugs and technologies – not only on behalf of the Norwegian population but also for people in other countries – is an area where I could well imagine that the Government was taking a leading role. I hope that in recent years' budgets you will literally focus a lot more on this very topic. There's one issue in the budget that I'm very disappointed about, and that's that the government hasn't found room to introduce a so-called HPV vaccine for girls. This is a vaccine that has been sold in Norway since 2006. Evolution shows, when looking at living conditions and where the individual lives, a clear tendency that those who have relatively large wallets have the opportunity to buy this vaccine, while those who have less advice do not have the same opportunity. This increases the social health differences in Norway instead of reducing them, which has been the government’s stated objective. I expect you to get on the track here quickly and get this in place. It has been shown that some have asked questions about whether this vaccine has the effect you want and that you will see a little more about the challenges in other countries. It is strange to hear that argument when the vaccine has actually been granted a marketing authorisation. The vaccine is for sale in the pharmacies – for sale every day. Using that argument I find a little bit strange, I just have to say. There is much more that could be said about the year's budget, but I am currently satisfied with this and look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e254	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e259	It is two weeks to Christmas Eve, and in a spirit of peace, I will begin by thanking the committee chairman for a clean process in the context of the Committee's budgetary position. I agree with the importance of keeping the excesses low, but I remember that the Progress Party also votes for the price adjustment of props where they themselves have power, as in Ålesund City Council, where Nesvik himself is a city board member. My question, however, goes to the hospital economy. The Progress Party spends a total of NOK 15 billion more in its alternative state budget. At the same time, they will be in government with the Right, who have said that they refuse to compromise on the rule of action. The real growth of hospitals in 2008 appears to be greater than any real growth The Progress Party itself achieved in its cooperation with the previous government. Why should the voters believe that the Advance Party will achieve more in relation to the hospital in any government cooperation with the Right than they did in cooperation with the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e268	First of all, the recording related to Ålesund. The Ålesund will be examining its budget on Thursday, and I can reassure the representative Tegen that someone there, among other things. ensure that persons with a social alarm with less than 3 G of income are released. It is in the direction that goes in Ålesund, and Tegen is cordially welcome to Ålesund to look at the budget. But let's relate to where we are now, in the main hall. The Progress Party promoted a budget this year which is actually within the scope of what has previously been referred to as the Action Rule. So the progress party is going to follow up that piece. In the case of confidence in the Progress Party: Yes, if you look at the budgetary agreements entered into by the Progress Party with the previous government parties, versus the budgetary agreement entered into by the Labour Party with the Bondevik Government, it shows, after all, that the Progress Party is just giving priority to health.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e275	Regional health establishments have contracts with private hospitals today, so that private hospitals, both commercial and non-profit, can participate in and solve the tasks to be resolved by the public interest. I would like to refer to a note where the Progress Party proposes to increase the budget of hospitals by DKK 1.7 billion in addition to the Government's proposal, and then it goes on to say: 'while private providers are treated as public health providers.' What is meant by private hospitals assimilated to public health?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e280	As I said in my contribution, the Progress Party has transferred some of the money related to the ‘Rase Back’ action from regional health companies and from the NAV system just because it is necessary to be able to purchase services from private individuals. Because what's happening today is that over 400 million. kr of these funds have run into the regional health establishments, so that the management takes place there. By transferring them to the NAV system you will be able to buy much more from the private sector, where it is actually available. The undersigned himself has been in contact with a number of private hospitals that can report that they have not been in contact for many months. will be able to take away from all the 20,000 extras that have come into health queues during this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e285	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e288	Before the weekend I received a text message from a friend who had recently had a heart operation at Ullevål Hospital, where it was hot: I have never felt so well cared for, with my own nurse and connected to a monitoring system 24 hours a day. That same night I saw in the NRK news a lady who said she felt like a government council when she was picked up in the morning to receive dialysis because of kidney failure. The day before it said a close acquaintance of mine, and I do not construct it, that he was called out on the evening by the doctor, long after the doctor's work hours, who wondered how he was doing after the treatment he had had. Just before that again there was one who came to me and boasted that he had had rehabilitation at an institution after a hip operation that had been so intense and excellent that he was able to start working a lot before he thought. And this weekend we saw reports from rehabilitation after the stroke of the Stavern rehabilitation hospital, where we stand up as an international leader. So the picture of the Norwegian health service – and I think many people here can tell similar stories – is that the vast majority, as we read in a broad user survey in the newspaper yesterday, experience a lot of positive health care, and that more and more patients are getting better treatment. In 2006, there were 245,000 more patients than in the 2002 hospital reform and almost 400,000 more who received outpatient treatment. The number of treatments has increased steadily under different governments, and up to the next year there is an increase of 18 000 treatments in hospitals. Although the waiting time has been fairly stable since the second tertiary in 2004 after a jump into waiting time from the hospital reform in 2002, the main picture is that much more is being treated much better. Then it's important not to let any lamentable individual pisses, which the media will always be able to find and will always focus on, mark the health debate. You create insecurity among people and difficult conditions for those who are in the first line of health care if you are always eager to pick up negative traits and tragic examples and help to blow them up, so people can think that's the way it is. One of the most important things that politicians can do to help the health care system do a good job is say no to being in the media in a one-sided search for the negative. We should both be in opposition and in position better to tell people that we, for example. in recent years has been able to save far more patients with heart attacks and other heart diseases. We should say loud and clear that now we finally see that the number of donations and transplants is increasing sharply, so that we reach in a year at least half way to our target number. And next year, the Department will add new measures, such as DRG funding also for donations and the free purchase of donor doctors, which will help us further. We should tell you that here in the country we have an advanced and world-leading cuckoo technology that we can use to perform major interventions without extensive operations and long hospitalization for people. It's all about everything from different cancers that we can now finally help people who suffer from morbid obesity, much better with advanced obesity operations. We like to share the credit for all of this with the previous government. Because everything that happens in health care is a result of long-term bets. This also applies to the economic and resource situation. The budgets have increased steadily since 2002, and if we correct for new tasks, for price and wage increases, etc., the real growth under the red-green government has been included in 2008 at DKK 3.6 billion, according to the Ministry's estimates. We are particularly pleased that, until the next year, an increase of nearly DKK 1.7 billion for investment and maintenance is scheduled to take place. These are liquid funds that are included in the basic allocation, so that the situation is much more favourable compared to previous years in relation to this area. We are at the top of the world here in Norway, and above our Nordic neighbouring countries, in terms of public funds spent on hospitals and health. Nevertheless, parts of the hospitals and businesses suffer from deficits and difficulties in balancing. And it is probably the opposition's privilege to propose more money – everything from the unstoppable paper money machine of the Advance Party to the more targeted, limited proposals of the other parties. The discussion of who will bring us even higher, at the top of the world summit, in terms of health expenditure, will probably continue. But I think it's more useful to focus on focusing on addressing the grips and strategies needed to make better use of resources, and to provide patients with even better quality of treatment. I think, first of all, that we need to realize that in today's medical world, with increasingly advanced and expensive technology and higher demands for competence and education, we need to be more effective at concentrating the highly specialised treatment in fewer places. Otherwise, we won't be able to keep up with medical knowledge and cost developments. We don't want to afford to invest in the equipment needed in a lot of places, and we don't want enough patients to build up the necessary experience and competence, that is. We will not be able to ensure patients the best treatment if we insist on e.g. continue to operate colon cancer at 55 sites in the country, or breast cancer at 25 sites. We should continue to sort out where in the country and how many places we are going to carry out highly specialised treatment of different types, mainly due to the quality and safety of patients, but also in order to achieve better resource use and to rotate resources towards prevention and rehabilitation. We should also better sort what we're going to do and build up at the local hospitals and at the local medical centers. Part of the treatment for long-term stays and some local hospital functions that we currently have in highly specialised hospitals should be able to move out to local hospitals. We should build up here what Stortinget has said is going to be the next big promise in health care, namely rehabilitation and rehabilitation and measures to help all the chronicler groups better. Supplements outside the public sector are important, which can provide a high degree of good rehabilitation. But it is primarily when rehabilitation is given its proper place and importance within the public health system that the really great promise of rehabilitation can come. We should closely monitor how too many swing door spaces are currently developing in the years to come, to see if the investment in rehabilitation is producing visible results. The second main step we need to take is to improve the interaction between community health services and health businesses. This applies from the transfer of patients who stay in hospitals for too long, to – the other way – the need for enterprises to be able to provide more treatment places in the care rather than pointing to and blaming each other when crises occur in that area. Another part of the interaction between specialist health services and community health services relates to psychiatry, where in recent years it may seem that a good number of patients have been transferred that are not a professional basis for integration into a community environment. The last thing I think is that if you just create isolated lives in the municipalities, with poor activity offers and weak professional follow-up, because it is to be built up one by one in often small municipalities with small resources, you should remember that if you are looking for integration, this must be possible, and it must be possible to achieve this for the benefit of the patient. The professional advice and views of municipalities should be heard here, and care should be taken in the follow-up to the psychiatry plan to ensure that this is taken into account when it comes to not losing too much capacity in the treatment system, and when it comes to building common housing facilities, which may be more suitable than living alone. Better interaction between municipalities is also about being able to build up local medical centres with dialysis, and with light treatment, which government parties add extra funds to this budget – 2 million. kr as a start to something that can provide a great quality improvement for psoriatics around the country. All psoriatics cannot be in the sun in the South all the time, and for them a well-developed light treatment throughout the country will have great significance and cost little for the public. We can also build a better interaction between local health services and businesses by means of telemedicine. In Finnmark, for example, there are: establish local telemedicine medical consultations directed from the telemedicine centre in Tromsø, but in total, in our long-term country, we have little success in realising the telemedicine potential. It is largely due to the fact that no appropriate tariffs and funding have been established across administrative levels. Then I am left to a third main action that is needed in the health care system, namely an improvement in the funding system. It must be designed to better ensure the overall course of treatment for rehabilitation and follow-up in municipalities. Solutions need to be created to avoid conflicts of interest between municipalities and healthcare companies that are detrimental to patients and the use of resources by society. Furthermore, the funding system needs to be designed to avoid a wrong distortion of healthcare provision. This applies, inter alia, to: the relationship between outpatient treatment and hospital bed stays. Today it may seem that the DRG points here are working so that it is largely worthwhile first to fill up the beds anyway. This also applies to the financing of rehabilitation, where it may seem that the DRG reward works in such a way that it does not pay to operate specialised rehabilitation in the same hospital in the extension of intervention and treatment. It is very important and right that the Ministry has now set up a working group to deal with these and other funding system challenges, and it has expressed a positive opinion. In order to improve the interaction between health enterprises, between them and the municipalities and them and different specialists, x-ray institutions, etc. There is also a need for a fourth main intervention, namely to realise the potential of ICT in the health sector. It is about increasing patient safety, about being able to get the best treatment based on the necessary patient information anywhere in the country. Ensuring common good standards and practices in all parts of the ICT system in healthcare will also enhance privacy. We have a lot of good environments working in this area, but we're not able to realize the potential well enough. This requires, inter alia: a change to Section 13 of the Health Register Act, which the Council of State has notified that it is working on, which will enable us to start communicating patient information between the companies and all parts of the healthcare system and the parties with which we cooperate in a better way. The fifth step is, however, the main concern of the healthcare system, namely to turn resources from repair to prevention. The government parties make a slight start on this when we move 17.7 million in the setting. for prevention from the framework of regional health enterprises. We're going to spend $5 million. for the early detection of diabetes and for measures that may help those affected to control the disease. We're going to spend $2 million. kr on light treatment for psoriatics. We are strengthening the effort for the suffering that affects people most, namely the various musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders, and rate 7 million. kr on physical activity and to resume financing of the project Sycle for the job. So let's add 3 million. kr for a better school health service as a start to bet on it in vulnerable areas such as Groruddalen, parts of Drammen, Finnmark, etc. This is a municipal task, but to those degrees the Committee has stressed the importance of it in the budget setting and in the setting of the report. No 20 for 2006-2007 on social health inequalities, and we believe it is essential to be able to give a signal to the municipalities that there is to be more investment here by making a state contribution to the start of this initiative. A very important part of the State budget is the 2015 Care Plan and the challenges of the elderly care, which the Committee has spent a lot of time working on. I believe that the agreement concluded between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, as indicated in the vote, will mean a very important step towards cooperation and improvement in the care of the elderly, instead of an endless dispute that is policy in small honor. This agreement involves obligations for our parties and the Government and represents a long and important run forward towards 2015, and it differs in this way from the usual observations and requests of the Storting to the Government. We believe that the points in the agreement add important elements to the care plan, which the Left and Christian People's Party should be honored for having been involved. For example, building statistics in each municipality on the needs of the individual for the care and care services of the lucky day and for nursing homes will provide us with a better basis nationally and locally to develop these services. Creating a guarantee of dignity with new and clear standards and requirements for quality, as well as some new rights, will give elderly care and care a stronger position in society. The same will be true of measures to build new competences as the financing of specialised health and social education by 2009 and to dimension the need for and development of nursing homes and happy stays, as we set out, and to assess the target set, namely 12,000 sick homes by 2015, all the way again. We look forward to starting work on the implementation of this agreement as soon as possible and hope that this kind of commitment cooperation can also be developed in relation to other major challenges in Health-Norway, as measures for drug-dependent and better-designed interaction between municipalities and health businesses. I therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e334	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e338	I think it is nice that the representative, at the end of his post, presented various proposals in the so-called older agreement that was concluded. It opens up what is involved with statistics in the municipalities, and I think it was very nice, because it was something I played into those negotiations at an early stage. So it was very nice. In his speech, Boehler pointed out what has to do with social health differences in Norway. The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research concluded in note 2007:117 as follows: ‘The conclusion thus becomes that the system of individual reimbursement leads to increased social imbalances in the medical treatment offer.’ [[...]] Furthermore, we have also seen studies on the sale of cervical cancer vaccines, that there are enormous differences between Oslo west and Oslo east, that among other things. the citizens of Oslo east cannot afford and afford to buy this vaccine. My question to Boehler is: How does Boehler view the fact of, among other things, do you medicine to transfer more medicines from general to individual reimbursement than you do the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e350	I would first like to say to what Mr Nesvik said about statistics on the needs of municipalities and the development of care for the elderly, that this is just an example of us trying to take the views of all parties when we built up this agreement. We had a desire to get all the parties to sign it, including the Advance Party. When it comes to individual reimbursement and social benefits, like the representative, Nesvik, I'm very concerned about it. We have marked it together in the attitude of social health differences and now in the attitude of the state budget. The first step we want to take there, and as the Minister has confirmed, is that the Social and Health Directorate will carry out studies on a broad basis, so that we can ensure that we have a good professional and neutral basis to draw the consequences of what we have seen from various studies that have been carried out to date. I'm worried about the issue of social distortions. After all, the size of the treatment of the drug notification has said that you will mainly go the other way and put several things on the blue prescription. Work has also been done to specify the requirements for blue prescription, which may be interesting in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e357	I listened with great interest to Jan Bøhler's posts. The first half drew an overly bright and positive picture of the situation in the Norwegian health care system. You could almost get the impression that everything was perfect, and that there's nothing left. However, the last half showed that there are still many unresolved problems. But there is one main area that the representative Bøhler did not touch at all, and it amazes me. It is the long-mentioned escalation plan for the drug field that has finally been included in the year’s budget. The head of the Bergensklinikken, one of the largest institutions in this area, says that the bet is the weakest government ever made, with one exception, that budget the same government presented last year. How does Boehler view the fact that the drug field is being prioritised as conspicuously as it is in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e364	A down-prioritying is a mildly incorrect use of words when you put forward a stepping-up plan – when you have now spent 350 million. the need to increase efforts in the care of the elderly and to raise to 100 million more. There is a need for a strong commitment beyond this. I highlighted the need to provide local authorities with treatment facilities on the part of health businesses. In conclusion, I said that I hope we could enter into a broader cooperation on this in the Committee in a bet in line with what we have discussed regarding the care of the elderly. I agree that a great escalation is needed here in the years to come, and I hope that is the stick we can bring forward now when the escalating plan within the psychiatry has reached its final stage, that it is then the care of russians that is at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e371	I very much agree with the representative of Bohemia that prevention is incredibly important, and am glad that so much time is spent at that very point. It was also said that it started with 17.7 million. kr by taking funds from health businesses and transferring them to some preventive measures. I believe that the funding system in hospitals is a very big challenge today, among other things. in the case of both priority and overall priorities. I'll come back a little later today. I think the biggest challenge we have is how to deal with the interaction between municipalities and health businesses. Municipalities have a desperate need for skills, for help, in some professional contexts. My impression is that a wide-ranging investigation should be launched into the hospital funding system itself that better than today's single price system captures the need for a complete service chain. The question is: doesn't the representative of Bohemia think it might be time to take such a review?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e380	I think there is a need for significant changes in the funding system in order to maintain the whole process of treatment. I also mentioned that we need to get a better interaction between the community health service and health care companies, as one of the five steps I went into my post. This, of course, implies great opportunities for discussion, among other things. the prevention/repair ratio, if we look at how we also finance the prevention and rehabilitation components in the municipalities. So I believe that from our side it is now set up a process around this, with regard to short-term changes both in the ISF system and in the DRG funding on some points that I mentioned in my post, and I think we should look further at the relationship between the community health service and the health services. At least I believe that we should work closely with this in the future. To call it a complete conversion, or not, I don't need to decide for now, but there are at least big questions that lie here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e387	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e390	Norway is at the top of the world, noted previous speeches. Yes, if I heard correctly, he went a little further and said "at the top of the top of the world" – and then it starts to get loud. The problem with the kind of comparisons is, of course, the big question: what are we comparing? There may be reason to stop when you have the annual budget debate, where all numbers are increasing from year to year. What are we actually able to compare? Well, what we're able to compare are the sizes of numbers, and the sizes of numbers are about how much material resources we pump into the health care system. It is then true that Norway is on the world top in terms of resource use in relation to the size of the population. Not only are we at the top of the world, but we are also quite clearly different from our nearest neighbouring country, which in most respects has the same social form as Norway has. I think of our Nordic neighbours. For example: the question of medical coverage, the number of medical devices in relation to the size of the population, is highest in Norway. But I want to warn you against the short conclusion that it means that the health state is better, or that the health supply is better qualitatively, because we don't know anything about that. Politics is something more than a competition for who can spend the most money, or who can suggest spending the most money. Had it been that simple, politics would have been a transparent shift. It's not primarily about how much you put in, but how much you get out. The major challenge in Norway, both in the health, school and most other sectors, is that there may seem to be an obvious mismatch between the money we pump in and the results we can get. There may seem to be too much of the resources involved in operating the systems, managing them and organizing them, and too little that comes out in terms of measurable quality for users. That's the last thing that is the crucial quality feature. We dealt with a short time ago here in the Chamber of the Riksrevision's review of a particular area of psychiatry, namely child and youth psychiatry. That review was very interesting and instructive, and a little bit simplified one might say that it showed that we know almost nothing about the quality of the services provided. The knowledge base is simply not there when it comes to evaluating what we get for the resources we put in. This is the real challenge for all political parties in terms of future health policy: to ensure that we get a much better knowledge base on the performance side – not how much money we pump into the different levels, but what we get out in terms of measurable good results for users. Let me just raise some basic questions. I noticed that the representative Bohemia raised the question of whether we have an appropriate funding system. That's an important question, and I agree that we should use more force to figure it out. But it can be specified: Do we know if there is a correct relationship between the proportion of total resources we use on the first line service — primary health service — and the proportion we use on the specialist health service? It is almost always the specialist healthcare service that attracts great attention when we deal with the state budget every year. But after all, the most important part of health care is not in hospitals; it is in primary health care. We know by now. Today, little about whether we should move a larger proportion of the total resources from the specialist health service to the primary health service, but there may be a lot to suggest that we should. Do we know anything about the extent of mishandling, from pure accident to more serious errors? And do we know how much unnecessary resources it binds up? The answer is no. All we have is general estimates based on surveys from other countries. Do we have a health system that seems demand-creating more than it actually seems curative and curative and preventive? The basic problem of attitude in view of the future of a society at the top of the world summit is how we get away from the attitude that health services are the greatest, and that the more you can consume them, the better life becomes – that is, how we can turn it to the opposite position, that the optimal life is a life where you see a midwife at the entrance and a priest at the end and otherwise manage without professional help all the way. It's not healthcare that's a good thing. It's the health that's a good one. Health is, to put it bluntly, a necessary evil to help people get a share in what is good, namely good health. The interesting thing about this year’s budget setting is that in almost all key profiling issues, the opposition is united and clearly calls for stronger profiling within the overall budget towards the main field of habilitation-rehabilitation. Last year, the Committee also made a unanimous remark, but there has been relatively little sign of the Government's draft budget this year. There is no marked priority for the rehabilitation field, and the so-called rehabilitation recovery plan is – that is, absolutely all user organisations – a significant disappointment compared to what was expected. With regard to the efforts in the field of drugs, and in particular the combination of psychiatry-rus, which is the cause of the most vulnerable and vulnerable group in the whole society of wealth, it is quite alarming, as I quoted in the line exchange with Jan Bøhler, that the head of the largest treatment institution in the field characterises the draft budget of the year as the second weakest government has presented. The weakest thing was the same government released last year. We had a health minister in the last period who profiled very strongly a desire to reverse the resource flow in healthcare never so little away from the prosperous middle class – now I'm talking about middle class in health and not necessarily in money – and towards the weak and vulnerable groups. On that occasion he used a rhetoric that meant that those sitting at the bottom of the table must finally be moved a little higher up, getting a little more of the attention and getting a slightly larger share of the resources in order to get a viable life from day to day. It is strange that a red-green government, which in its government statement uses quite strong words just about redistribution to the benefit of the weakest, within health policy shows so little will and so little ability to achieve the precisely mentioned redistribution for the benefit of the most disadvantaged. The right-hand alternative budget has the same profile as our alternative budget had last year. The increase over and above the Government's budget proposals totaling 550 million. This is mainly about rehabilitation, and in the area of rehabilitation, particularly the weakest, namely drug users and measures for their benefit. And then we finally suggested spending 100 million. in addition to the draft budget to increase the competence of the care services of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e422	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e425	Today’s government has strengthened the finances of municipalities significantly since the government change in 2005 with a view to providing better care to the inhabitants of municipalities. I see that in its general remarks, the Right believes there is a great need for a quality promise in the care services. My question is therefore: Why does the Right do not support the invitation of the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party to have a guarantee of dignity within the care of the elderly to strengthen, among other things, the role of the government. the level of competence of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e432	The reason for this is simply that the agreement in question included in the budgetary position is practically out of content. We believe that it is suitable to lead people behind the light, when you call something that is as small a commitment as the target list included in the budget position, for a cross-political settlement. With regard to the said guarantee of dignity, it is really only the word that is agreed – the content is completely foggy. It is said that in the further work on social legislation, a guarantee of dignity should be returned, among other things. ‘reference’ shall mean a Document No: Eight proposals, which will be annexed to the Minutes later today, and which will not be adopted. When the time comes for such a proposal to materialize, of course the Right will consider it and decide on it. But we do not take a position on proposals that we have not seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e440	I think it was a point-of-the-art piece of pay kept, until he finally was a bit cricket to the sitting government. I have to say that surprises me, because if you compare the former government council Ansgar Gabrielsen did, with part of the grips the government takes, it's not different. After all, Gabrielsen went in to reduce input-based funding, and it's continued in the government budget for both years. Then you see that you're strengthening the psychiatry by 940 million. The 2008 escalating plan shows that, as Ansgar Gabrielsen did, the psychiatry, as well as the drug field, is being protected in relation to ensuring a more relative increase there than in somatic healthcare. Could it be that wages here have taken a hard time in relation to the measures actually taken – a strengthening towards those sitting at the bottom of the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e447	I wish that the representative Ballo was right, but I don't think he's right. The problems associated with the so-called escalating plan for the drug field are, first of all, that it came very late in relation to what was promised. It doesn't have to be an accident if something comes late, but good. But I have recorded that there is a full consensus among absolutely all those who work in the drug field, both the public sector and the private ideal part. They express a great disappointment that what is produced as a stepping-up plan is so puzzled in relation to the total use of resources within the field. It is true that the Council of State in its letter of assignment has continued the formulations introduced by the previous Council of State, but the problem is that something works the first time the exercise is carried out, but if it is repeated in the same way, the effect becomes weaker and weaker for each time – if the draft budget does not show that it is serious about increasing access to resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e452	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e455	I would first like to thank the chairman of the committee for a nice greeting. I have not participated in the Committee itself in the budgetary process that has been, but I have with interest studied the budgetary position and also read it to some extent as I would think others are reading it. My impression is that it's a good process you've had in the committee. The late Jon Lilletun once said about a government budget that a good budget has become even better, and that's the impression you can have when you read it, also because you have the ability to take over the recordings that have come from different hearing bodies. One of the things I've been reflecting on over the last few years is that it's basically a great strength that we have a majority government, but when matters are going to be dealt with in the Storting and various interested organisations report their needs, you're basically at risk of not being able to take it into account because the budget has already been committed. But I see that the committee is able to do something together, not by moving a lot of money, but by finding ways to strengthen these areas in a number of areas, such as diabetes treatment, in relation to psoriasis spaces, in relation to physically inactive adults – to mention someone – and also to smokers. If you look at the budget as a whole, you see it's a cost of NOK 115 billion. If you go to other budgets – the justice budget is well in the order of $20 billion, the transport budget may be about the same, perhaps a little more – you can see that the health budget is, in any case, a significant budget, with a significant distribution of funds. Thus, it is also important to look at the way the funds are used. As far as I can see, the cost of the specialist health service is about the order of magnitude. DKK 84 billion. Then I have to say that I agree very much with the approach that Inge Wohnung had initially in his post, namely that one has to make assessments of the specialist health service regarding the use of the means that are not only about increasing use, but also about critically assessing what is left after the funds have been allocated. We see that the population is very concerned about the specialist health service. This can be seen from a survey in Dagbladet yesterday, comparing the country's 63 hospitals and asking the population to assess whether they are satisfied, on the basis of the fact that they have used the services themselves or have been related. Such a list, of course, is not objective, it is characterized by a number of subjective approaches, but it is seen to result in an engagement that also sells newspapers. I have to say that after having followed the specialist health service relatively closely, including as a health care professional for many years, it strikes me that there are two different developments that are conflicting. One is that services are becoming increasingly specialised and that the need to reduce the number of treatment units for parts of the service is present to a very high degree. A good example of this is cancer treatment, where it has been recognised that the spread of services in very many local hospitals risks reducing quality, because some of the surgeons involved are too few. So it has been necessary to look at the centralisation of some services in order to ensure their quality. Then there is an opposite trend — which may seem paradoxical — and that is that new technology allows studies closer to the patient, partly in the home municipality. What you can experience is that you can treat a heart attack with Streptokinase all the way out to the hospital, and you can monitor the patient in an ambulance on the way to a hospital, which allows hospital staff to see how the infection develops. This type of technological development presents hospitals with completely new challenges. It is based on a hospital structure that was determined many years ago, and how many of the actions we see against it are influenced by the struggle for what exists – in fear of losing what you have. In the election campaign, I was at a local hospital where they had seen the number of posts at the orthopaedic emergency department, and it turned out that on average there was one post every three days. This is done by a local hospital where you have daily continuous orthopaedic staff, so that you have to get hold of temporary doctors, partly from abroad, in order to cope with the manning – with a huge cost and with a demand in the population that these services must pass. And that is understandable because the population will feel insecure when services disappear. But I come from a municipality that is several times bigger than the one I visited, and that has never had that kind of emergency response. I don't remember anything happening dramatically as a consequence of that either. This means that in some areas of emergency preparedness, dialogue with the population needs to discuss: Could these resources have been more appropriate — in other ways and more targeted — to get more healthcare back, not by shutting down the local hospital, but by filling it with new and other tasks? What we see is that some large hospital units have good recruitment, while local hospitals don't have it. Ambulance schemes between larger units and smaller units provide completely different opportunities for local staffing, rather than using expensive arrangements for the import of foreign doctors. 2008 is the last year of the Roadmap for Mental Health. I remember well when we adopted this escalation plan in our time, and it is a pleasure to see that it has led to a significant strengthening of the psychiatry – not least, it has happened near the users: in the home communities of many patients. But what we need to recognise is that when the time of the escalation plan is over by the end of next year, there is still a need to further develop services in mental health protection – both because we see that the incidence of this type of disease has increased in the population, and because we are still not in the target of ensuring good enough services. Unfortunately, what we see in both mental health protection and drug addiction interventions is that these patients do not have strong stakeholder organisations that can demand further development. It's not that it's the voices that sound best in the public space that it's always worth listening to. I have to say that I have a lot of understanding for patients with multiple sclerosis and their demands for access to the best medicine. However, when a drug proposed by the Advance Party costs NOK 225 000 on an annual basis – NOK 17 000 per year. treatment, 13 injections – control of effects will be required. Time and again, we have seen that the Storting has committed itself to individual preparations, preferably by naming the manufacturer – it is almost pure advertising of individual preparations. Then it'll be a few years, and we'll learn that the product doesn't have the effect you thought of. We have experienced that in the case of preparations for Alzheimer's, for osteoarthritis and for diabetes. There is absolutely reason to point a warning finger at Stortinget as a kind of superior body in terms of the effects and side effects of drugs, because the willingness to look back is little present: Was it really reasonable that we had the order for five to ten years ago, or should we have heard more strongly at the trade unions? The development of the health system in the next few years is – when it comes to the problem – we who can largely participate in the decision-making process. What is then important within the framework with which we operate is to be able to prioritise resources to the fullest extent possible — in a targeted way. When I'm into this with drugs, I have to say that it's thoughtful to see that drugs that often cost little are available – those who produce them want them out of the market – and how simple measures in the care of drugs, such as drugs. that you have a hand to hold, that you often get little focus on, while the enormously cost-intensive measures are the ones we discuss in the hall. For this reason, this is one of the most important debates we can take: how can we strengthen the responses to the weakest – without focusing only on the enormous technologically demanding measures, which the media will often be most concerned with?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e495	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e498	In the Soria Moria statement, the government says that the excesses in medicine and health care should not be increased. Nevertheless, we see that the government is breaking with the intentions of the Soria Moria Declaration, and for the second year in a row, the propensities are increasing, now to NOK 1740. This creates social health differences in Norway. Is the representative, Mr Ballo, satisfied with the increase in excess, that this – at least as I see it – is a tax on sickness?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e505	It's a difficult balance, because if you're going to get a budget to go, you have to get money from somewhere. But the opposition reads the budget in a special way, because if you look at the amount of excesses that are actually refunded by the state, those figures have never been higher – the roof 2 scheme has never been better. There are protective mechanisms in place that have been strengthened by the Government, which mean that, in total, there have never been better arrangements to prevent the most vulnerable groups from being covered by their additional costs. Therefore, it is not possible to look at a relatively modest increase in the proportion of propensity in isolation. You have to look at all the arrangements that actually exist, and so there are arrangements that have never been better developed than with this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e510	A year ago, a unanimous committee and a unanimous rally went in to make rehabilitation the next big bet area. Both patients, the trade unions and the Right had great expectations of a binding escalation plan, but the promise of escalation has unfortunately become a step down. Corrected for wage and price increases this year, there is no more krone for rehabilitation. It is understandable that patient organisations and professional communities respond. Last week, the Committee was handed over 225,000 signatures from patients around the whole country as a protest against government failure in the area of rehabilitation. Does the representative, Mr Ballo, believe that patients and trade unions in the field of rehabilitation have unreasonable expectations and demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e517	No, I don't mean that. However, patient organisations cannot be expected to be involved in the proposals they are making. For my part, I am pleased that the Committee has managed to strengthen its efforts in the field of drugs, because it is one of the most serious fields. We just have to get out of the Storing, and we see how people are going to go down, and we don't have enough measures to help them. I both hope and believe that it will be possible in a slightly longer perspective to get good rehabilitation measures. But everything is not possible in a single state budget, although the opposition also has great expectations for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e526	First, I would like to warmly welcome Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Committee. It will be very nice to work with him. It's the first time on my side, so I'm looking forward to that. What I want to ask the representative, Ballo, is about the private hospitals and pensions. The representative, Mr Ballo, has probably followed the debate that has taken place. I have asked a question, and the opposition parties have written a note on this in the budget position. I asked the Minister of Finance a question in the spontaneous question hour the last time she was here -- it's not long ago -- and she said she didn't know about this issue. She had learned it now, as she said. That's why I've had a hope that maybe there was a small mistake that you can't solve this for the private hospitals' big problem, with 150 million. kr in relation to aging. My simple question is this: Is it possible to imagine that SV in Stortinget will help these private hospitals to meet their pension costs before Christmas? There's a great need for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e541	It is possible that Laila Bavøy thinks the question is simple, but I do not think the answer is that. With regard to the overview of the impact of the amended pension scheme, as we also see in regional health companies, there has been a huge development on the cost side of pension agreements. I – in line with the Minister of Finance – do not overlook the consequences of private hospitals. What I think is important is that where the state enters into and makes agreements – it will largely also be non-profit institutions, such as the celebration clinic under the auspices of LHL, or others – we must of course ensure that what comes with funds provides predictable operations over time, so that one year does not enter into an agreement, and then one does not have a continuation next year. But to overlook all the details of the pension agreement, I can't, and I won't give in to it or start to speculate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e553	The Christian People's Party's objectives for health policy are equivalent healthcare, regardless of background, skin colour, function, sex, age and place of residence. Five years after the hospital reform was introduced, this has not yet become a reality. We still see large differences in the provision of health care, depending on the region of health in which you live. We hear that skin color can determine health care, that sick people are given priority to rehabilitation instead of equal opportunities for rehabilitation for everyone, and we hear that disabled people are not taken seriously. Now there are also signs that the funding system in hospitals affects the priority of patients. Instead of assessing who needs treatment on the basis of individual medical needs, reports from the Social and Health Directorate and from the Medical Association show that the focus on the economy at the hospital level is also on the priority and quality of healthcare. Intervention-driven funding was intended as a management tool for regional enterprises and not as a priority tool for profitable and unprofitable patients. The financial system is used for performance requirements of each service provider department. I believe that the Government should now assess whether there is a need for changes in the funding system in order to avoid that the focus on the economy at the hospital level is still governing or even more governing the priority and quality of healthcare. The case of MS medicine, Tysabri, which is also part of this debate, may be an example of patients who, according to the prioritisation, need this medicine not get it because the hospitals prioritize anything else. The focus on economics may be on the prevention of a comprehensive patient offer and thus on better interaction between departments and levels of healthcare. In my opinion, this is one of the biggest challenges in healthcare today. There is also a fear that hospitals and municipalities are trying to avoid the responsibility for low-cost and resource-intensive patients. Older people, people with long-standing psychiatric disorders and drug addicts are groups of patients who require complex interventions over a long period of time. Too many examples show that these very patient groups are being neglected today. There is reason to fear that the funding system particularly affects the small hospitals, as they have been given a task that does not constitute a whole in the treatment provision. The small hospitals can therefore, as some say, be left with very resource-intensive patients and are not adequately compensated by the funding system we have today. In my view, a wide-ranging investigation of the hospital financing system should be initiated that better than the current single price system captures the need for a complete service chain. A prerequisite for increased effectiveness in hospitals is to invest in improved capacity and competence in primary health care. According to the evaluation of the hospital reform under the auspices of the Research Council, there has been no such development in the context of the reform. Adequate access in short-term and hospital rehabilitation areas, adequate resources in home care and highly skilled health professionals need to be given higher priority. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased with the agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left to increase the quality of care for the elderly. We are already impatient to see the results of the agreement, and we look forward to the Government's rapid follow-up of the plans announced in the agreement. It is an objective that the agreement on a lifting of care will provide better health care for older people both in hospitals and in the community health service. A review of the total operating deficit of hospitals for 2007, cumulative debt and economic governance should also be carried out. It is, as the Christian People's Party sees it, desirable that the Government present to the Storting such a review with current proposals for action, and preferably already in connection with the revised national budget next year. The high-debt situation can help to push hospitals into increased earnings. It is unfortunate if demands for efficiency improvement and better financial management lead to the prioritisation of profitable patients. Another challenge is that in 2006, a number of hospitals were miscoded, for example: by the error of documentation and reporting in the records. The fault coding was based on the fact that the information about which treatment had been carried out was missing, or that the incorrect diagnosis had been made. In particular, the fault encoding affected rehabilitation. Group treatment of patients was coded as individual treatment, and outpatient treatment was coded as day treatment. However, although the legislation is claimed to be complex, it must be possible to distinguish day care from outpatient treatment and group treatment from individual treatment. In the worst case scenario, this crazy practice means that patients do not get the right offer. Eighty-eight million. NOK was paid out incorrectly in 2006. Hospitals manage large sums of society’s resources, and it is of great importance that hospitals trust the population and that they give proper priority and do not make such mistakes. Riksrevisions Document No. In addition, 1 indicates that hospitals employed far more doctors than they were allowed to. The evaluation of the hospital reform by the Research Council in January this year shows that priority practices have deteriorated. Patients with the lowest priority have had the greatest reduction in waiting time, while patients with the highest priority have had the least reduction in waiting time. We are now also facing the implementation of Health South-East. The merger decision was justified by the fact that a co-ordination of competences, operations and investments by 15 health businesses in the two regions could achieve much more for patients, for the economy and for research. But this will depend on the extent to which the new healthgiant will be controlled. What functions will be coordinated and what functional distribution will take place, in particular between the major hospitals such as Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital? I welcome the Council's feedback on the status of this work in the future. Another feature that has characterized treatment provision in recent years has been that ideology is put in front of the patient. Private ideal hospitals are an important supplement and corrective to public hospitals. We have seen that with the government's policy, the ideal hospitals feel that they are suffocated. For 2007, several of these major challenges have increased pension costs, not least. The government now has the opportunity to solve this by supporting a proposal to allocate 150 million. kr in relation to the ageing of the 2007 budget, where this proposal will be put forward. The construction of self-treatment services at the expense of existing services, such as detoxification in Health South-East and LAR treatment in Health West, is far from playing on teams of important non-profit institutions. This goes far beyond the Soria Moria statement, as I read it. The ideal hospitals, such as Lovisenberg and the Diakon home in Oslo and Haraldsplaats in Bergen, go beyond the end, or some institutions need to reduce further, as more private and nonprofit institutions have already had to do – I think about the areas of rehabilitation and drug treatment – will lose very important skills and knowledge, and thousands of patients could lose their health supply. The pension question has to be solved. I'm worried that the right grips are not yet taken. I am concerned that there are still major barriers with regard to the relationship between the specialist health service and the community health service. I am also concerned about the great gap in competence and the lack of logistics between the first and second line services we see today in important areas. Finally, I take up all the Christian People's Party proposals that emerge in the position, both those that we stand alone about, and those that we stand with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e591	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e594	The government's draft budget, which the Storting will adopt with some minor adjustments, has never been so expansive in the past. One adds up to a patient growth of 1.5 p.m., the hospital economy is strengthened by 1.79 billion kroner, construction and equipment of 1.67 billion kroner, mental health of 940 million dollars. SEK, Care plan 2015 with SEK 136 million. kr, the But even this year, health businesses seem to be running a huge deficit. Worst is the development of health north and health south-east. In Health Mid-Norway and Health West we understand that the economy is somewhat under control, and the result there seems to be better than in previous years. But it is a democratic problem that health businesses spend far more resources than the Stortinge grant. It also seems that this is not, in fact, well anchored at all the management levels of health businesses. Recalculation of pension costs leads to an increase in pension expenditure of DKK 3.2 billion in 2007 and DKK 2.7 billion in 2008 for regional health enterprises. These increased costs are excluded from the performance requirement. In the case of private non-profit hospitals, such as Haraldsplaats Diakonale Hospital — among others. local hospital for 125 000 mountainers and strippers, and it is a hospital that is run cost-effective and well – it has received equivalent expenditure for which there is no coverage in the budget for 2007 or 2008, which may involve loss of equity and possible bankruptcy. I am pleased that a joint committee asks the Government to find a solution to these challenges, so that hospitals do not lose equity or run for bankruptcy. The Central Party stands for a policy in which we organize people to live throughout the country. This requires healthcare where people live. We have a hospital structure that is demanding. In the Center Party, we are committed to ensuring that health services are accessible to everyone where people live. Local hospitals are therefore important. This does not mean that everything should be what it has always been in terms of content or tasks in local hospitals. Some tasks should be centralised according to the need for quality. Other tasks that do not need to be done for professional reasons in our major high-tech and specialised hospitals can and should be transferred to local hospitals. I think the last one might be the most demanding one, because the large and complex hospital organizations have difficulty giving up tasks. It is gratifying that municipalities reach the target of at least 10000 new annual works during this ageing period – not least because almost exclusively health professionals are added, according to the SSB. This helps to strengthen the quality of services together with the work of local authorities on quality development. 71 pst. in the care of health professionals in 2006. But more people are needed. The fight for labour is great and will increase. It will be important to allow larger jobs for those who want them. It is interesting in this context to mention a recent judgment in Hardanger District Court, where three employees in the municipality of Granvin went to court and demanded larger positions on the basis that they had had additional guards over several years who had added larger posts. They got the support and won the case. The court does not reject the fact that the municipality of Granvin needs additional guards, but believes that this can be avoided by better planning of the tours. A lesson from this judgment should be that management and organisation should have a much stronger focus in the care sector, as was also stressed when we gave the care notification. Furthermore, the number of annual works has to continue to increase. This implies that large financial resources must be allocated to the municipal sector in the coming years. The government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have concluded an agreement in very important areas of the care plan 2015. It is the Central Party's satisfaction and experience that the Christian People's Party and the Left have been constructive interlocutors, leading to this agreement. The law shall be improved, the competence strengthened, the need for lucky day care and care services followed up, the organisation of those who want to live at home by means of grants for conversion and an increase in cultural activities is part of the content of the agreement. It is important that the 2015 Care Plan is ensured through the agreement between these five batches, progress and stability over the year, in order to achieve the quality and capacity objectives. In the budget, the government has redispatched 17.7 million. crowns in relation to the Government’s proposal. It constitutes 0,02Senders addressed to 0,2, cf. page 1200. the promille which is redisposed from repair to prevention. I think it's interesting that the other parties in the debate have also noticed this, but it's about 0.02 per million, which goes from repair to prevention. If one had had our financial opportunities 20 years ago and had today's knowledge of prevention, we wouldn't have had the enormous growth in diabetes, cancer, obesity, asthma, disability and sick leave. The living age would have been higher, and more would have stayed longer in fine form. People would have felt better. It would have been easier to be a politician today if one 20-30 years ago had seemed better and certainly wiser. Today, we know that increased physical activity and healthier diets prevent effectively, that less use of tobacco and drugs saves lives and improves quality of life, and that good follow-up of the very least results in the best possible effect. We know that prevention is better than repair, and that early prevention is best. Therefore, we strengthen efforts to detect undiagnosed type 2 diabetes, to strengthen work towards inactive adults with regard to local activities through the Public Health Partnership, to strengthen efforts to reduce smoking in the workplace, with a smoke-stopping course, etc. – small grips, but important signals that public health work is an important work for government parties to reduce galloping repair costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e620	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e623	The representative of the Kjärlaa boasts and is very pleased with the government's older efforts, not least the so-called "age agreement", which will provide older people with a guarantee of dignity in the coming years. The content of this agreement is completely diffuse, and it does not appear to be a bet on the elderly. The content is about the same as in today's quality regulation, and there is no promise of financial means. There are also no new statutory rights on sick leave or other forms of residence. Nor are there any national standards, either in terms of manning or medical coverage. In fact, there's nothing that will make the elderly a worthy old age, as I see it. Can the Schjellela explain what is quite concrete in the agreement that has been reached, which will ensure older dignity in old age?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e632	This is an agreement on competence, which is based on capacity, and which is aimed at improving the law in the care sector. These are, in fact, the most important steps to improve quality, so that one avoids looking at the media that care for the elderly is not working well enough in many places. Investing in quality is very important, and important action here is providing people with health education and employing people who really have skills in care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e637	I want to follow up on what the previous representative was about. All the proposals in this agreement are also in place, but in the vote neither the parties of government, the Christian People's Party nor the Left will support the proposals. My question is then: Does the representative of the Kjärlaa believe that an agreement between parties is more binding than a unanimous request decision made here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e646	An agreement between five parties, which extends far beyond this budgetary year, is in fact very important and is much more consistent than a proposal made by the Right and the Progress Party in the Stortinget. I am pleased that the Right and Advance Party want to support parts of what is in our agreement, and would like to welcome them to this extent. In Bergen, we have an expression for people who come after, who don't participate fully. In Bergen, we call them raffles. It's actually an expression that's allowed to be used in the city council in Bergen. But to say something about it: we think it is very good that the Right is involved in supporting some of the proposals contained in the agreement that we have concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e653	Left agrees that highly specialised medicine should be centralised. It has been mentioned in the debate here before by the representative of Ballo that for example. cancer surgery must be centralised. But we need a local hospital. That's what we mean in the left hand side, and I know that the central part is also a member of. We're going to have good local hospitals with content. One of the most normal things in the world that has gone to all times, is to give birth to children. It's easy to make children, and it's normal to give birth. It's probably the most common thing. Left thinks we need a decentralised food supply. After all, the center party always signals that they have a district profile. My question to the Skjärlaa is, will the centre party be a guarantor that we will still have a decentralised food supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e663	The representative of Ludvigsen can be sure that the Central Party must be a guarantor that we should have a decentralised food supply. What is crucial is that those who are there to receive children are well qualified for that task. Therefore, I believe that in maternity wards where there are not enough births, the actual staff, through hospitation, etc. can qualify, so that a person can maintain good food supply if one does not necessarily reach the target. We believe it is very important that people are given food near where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e670	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e673	Everyone should be able to use their abilities to the best of their own and of society. Liberal policy is therefore an impatient work for fair solutions, giving everyone freedom, belonging and responsibility. It is in common with others the individual can find his own way to the good life. The left's peace and community slogan also covers future generations. The left will pursue a responsible economic policy and an environmental policy that ensures the basis of life and well-being for them as well. In the left's alternative budget, we propose to increase various measures to reduce poverty, with a budget of just over DKK 1 billion in addition to the government's proposal. The main initiative to the Left is care for the elderly, trying to pay the city, publicly funded dental care, and caring for parents with disabled children. Policies are about prioritizing, and the Left is more about giving priority to those who need it most in the area of health and social policy. There is an increasing gap between our expectations of what is medically possible and the financial resources available. This is a problem that in the future will need major and demanding decisions and priorities both from government and not least from big business. Social inequalities in health are a growing problem and are closely linked to poverty. It is very important to combat poverty that health care and treatment be given to those who too often fall outside the healthcare system too. Drug users need better treatment and necessary health care. Those who are addicted to drugs need treatment. The goal must be not only restlessness, but also a worthwhile life. Therefore, we must also consider harm reduction for those who are unable to become drug free. There must be a proper treatment supply, including: through increased use of medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR. Many can't deal with everyday life without rushing. Left will have increased focus on drug problems, because drug problems are often related to psychiatric disorders. Close and good cooperation between the psychiatry, institutions, ethatar and health services is therefore important – all those working with drugs and psychiatry. This is, of course, an interaction in the correct sense of the word. Alcohol is still the drug that causes most problems, such as premature death, disease, violence, crime and heavy health expenditure. It is worrying that the number of polydrug users seems to be increasing, and researchers believe it also has to be expected to increase in the future, unfortunately. We have taken note of this in our alternative budget, and we have a proposal to increase the scope of various measures for drug addicts by 240 million. kr. We've heard a lot about hospitals before in the debate here, and I shouldn't say so much about it. I want to talk a little bit about prevention. We can't prevent people getting older, but we can prevent anyone from getting hurt and falling that's a big reason people end up in hospitals or hospitals. An offer of simple janitorial services is a part of the preventive work that has seen older people able to live a worthwhile life in their own home as long as health allows. Strengthening the provision of assistance for simple daily tasks will be damaging and humiliating, and an opportunity to prevent femoral fractures and other falls, which will not least affect many older people. I just saw in the newspaper that a town in Karlstad municipality in Sweden has taken the prevention aspect seriously. They have for some time tried out free help to fix small things in the home of those over 75 years old. The project has been so successful that the municipality has now decided to invest in fixarservice throughout the municipality. Helpers can use e.g. changing bulbs and hanging curtains, but shall not perform any work that belongs to the field of their home helpers. The aim of the service is therefore to reduce the number of falls, so that the elderly can live in their own homes longer, and that one can reduce the pressure on municipal hospitals. The Swedish experiment is fully in line with the proposal to facilitate simple janitorial services for the elderly as left-wingers this year. I must say that it was very surprising that the presentation only got our own and Christian People's Party's votes. But we don't give up, we think it's a good idea, and we think it has to materialize. In our alternative budget, we've seen 20 million. kr for this purpose. Older people are at least as different as the rest of us in the population. Therefore, the provision of help must be different and varied. The provision of culture and activity must be strengthened, it must facilitate walking, and one must give priority to outdoor life, which we know strengthens the health and well-being of all. And then we have to contribute to the fact that the many older people who have health and ability to participate actively in society are not excluded by artificial age limits or prejudices. The last one doesn't cost money at all, it's just a change of posture that needs to happen. I have been at an important point in resolving the challenges of care for the elderly, and it is to bet on prevention. I also have to take care of the rehabilitation bit. Many patients experience a lack of provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation after hospital treatment, and a health care service that does not address serious rehabilitation and rehabilitation is not a whole healthcare system. It's bad for the individual patient, and it's bad social economy. The left is on a note in the budget setting together with the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progress Party saying that habilitation and rehabilitation must be the next major field of activity, and that a mandatory escalation plan must be in place. These parties have also agreed that healthcare companies must now be able to buy more rehabilitation sites to help the many who are in line. Left says that a strong public health service under democratic control is the best guarantee that the available health resources are used as best as possible. But in addition to a public health service, there must be room for private actors. The left is busy with local hospitals being a security base for the population, not least in the districts. Local hospitals must have adequate and clear contents to help them to be such a security base. The constant migration requirements, or rather the cut-off requirements, to which the hospital sector is exposed, have many negative aspects – not least it is very negative for the working environment in hospitals. The ‘Good vigilance’ campaign of the Labour Inspectorate in 2005 covered a total of 292 offences against the Work Environment Act. Cut means, in practice, redundancy, which in turn means unsafe jobs and unsafe additions. This, in turn, will lead to the discovery of whole supply and institutions. This means that many, especially in the districts, are insecure about the availability of a specialist health service in a reasonable vicinity in the future. I want to encourage the state councils to be on guard against the decline of supply, especially in the hospitals in the districts. The government has just sent out a big message about future dental services, St.meld. No 35 for 2006-2007. The big debate on the dental services we get in touch with the Stortinge to deal with the message just over New Year's, but I still want to express some of the Left's views. We have said in the budget setting that we believe that it is unimaginable that dental treatment is separate from other medical treatments. We want a public reimbursement scheme on the same line as the fixed medical scheme. We believe that poor dental health can be a contributing cause of serious diseases, for example. Cardiovascular diseases. But at least one thing is safe, and that's that it's very social stigmatizing. The left is in favour of a gradual transition to a public reimbursement scheme where deferred groups are prioritised in the first place. We've seen 170 million. kr in our alternative budget. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal from the Left, which is included in the budgetary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e705	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e708	The provision of health and care has been of great importance to the individual’s living conditions and to the quality of life. What is adopted today in the Grand Duchy means too many people in this country. It's interesting to see that in such big debates the media are quite absent, while when there's something negative to pluck up, they're warm-hearted – and we actually need presence in both cases. This area is also a high priority in the government budget proposal. It is expressed through a historical commitment to hospitals for the next year. It is expressed through a stepping-up plan for mental health, through the 2015 care plan, through a national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and a stepping-up plan for the drug field. I don't think there can be any doubt that the hospitals will be significantly strengthened next year. There has never been such a commitment in the hospital sector for a single year as it will be next year if the Stortinget adopts the Government's proposal. For the first time after 2002, activity growth is budgeted. Among other things, it is added. to facilitate, as several speakers have said, an increase in all patient treatment by 1.5 pst. from 2007 to 2008. So funds have been put in so that next year we will be able to offer some 18 000 more treatments. The government believes that hospitals should not be obliged to raise expensive loans to reacquire absolutely necessary construction and equipment. That is the background to our proposal of SEK 1.67 billion, so that next year we will be able to allocate a total of DKK 5.3 billion for this purpose. If the Storting joins these proposals, we will have a very important prerequisite for the whole hospital reform. In this way hospitals will pay less in interest expenses, and thus they will also receive more money directly for patient treatment. Despite the very good financial situation for next year, there is no doubt that hospitals are still facing major challenges. In order to achieve a financial balance for the next year, costs need to be reduced by approximately DKK 1 billion compared to this year. Health companies cannot or should not spend more money than the Storting makes available at any time, and I hope that everyone agrees. I therefore want to strengthen the follow-up of regional health businesses for the next year in many areas. At the same time, it is also important, as I see it, that health businesses have the necessary room for action within a policy-specific framework in order to be able to implement migration measures in a good way. And I agree with the speakers in this debate, among others. The representative, Mr Bøhler and the representative, Mr Ballo, stressed that the lead must be of good quality. That's why, as the representative of the Schjellaa and several others have said, we also have to continue the division of work between hospitals, and it's clear that in the transition that I think is absolutely necessary to get an even better quality, there will be some kind of stroke. That's what I mean by that, as I see it, it also needs to be given room for action to implement that kind of conversion measures for the benefit of patients. The size has been previously informed that healthcare enterprises’ pension costs will increase by approximately DKK 3.2 billion for the current year and by about DKK 2.2 billion for the next year. The government assumes that the increased pension costs should not be included in the performance requirement for regional health enterprises neither for this year nor for next year. As you know, pension costs are also a significant challenge for private non-profit institutions established within the responsibility of regional health enterprises. There is no doubt that these hospitals are a very important complement to the enterprises’ own businesses, and that is, of course, a lot for the provision of treatment to individuals. The situation of individuals is part of the work that the Government is now doing. We will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for solutions, including to private non-profit institutions, late in the revision of the national budget next year. The government is, probably like everyone here in Stortinget, concerned that people should wait as little time as possible to get the necessary treatment. About 66 pst. by all patients — or in another way, about two out of three patients — receive immediate help and are not on any waiting list at all. It is only natural to assume that the waiting list figures published by the Norwegian patient registry provide as correct a description of the actual waiting time development as possible. However, a review by the NPR of the waiting times showed that errors and deficiencies in the reported waiting list data have affected waiting time statistics. Therefore, the NPR is in the process of correcting those errors and putting in place measures to ensure proper waiting information. What is at least certain is that after the hospital reform in 2002, the average waiting time for patients treated is reduced by 14 days. During the Stoltenberg II government the waiting time has been quite stable, but with a small increase, in two days. Also in the last year it has been stable, with a decrease of one day. It is true that the number of people on the waiting list has increased somewhat lately, but the main problem is not that people are in line – the challenge is that they should be there for the shortest possible time. A poor policy course and a predictable framework are important for the community's efforts to improve care services. Sickness if very much is good in the care of the elderly and in the care of others who need it – I don't think there might be any doubt – we have seen examples of the opposite over the past few weeks. We want a worthy and secure care for the elderly and others who need it, and the Government is very pleased with the agreement that has been concluded here in the Stortinget between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left to strengthen the 2015 care plan further. I believe that that plan covers several important areas: a worthy care for the elderly, competence – which I hear several parties are involved in – dimensioning and active care. The care plan has a very concrete target of 12 000 new care sites up to 2015, with a total cost above the state budget of approximately DKK 6 billion. We will review the development frameworks on an ongoing basis, including: based on the extent of applications received by municipalities. I would also like to stress that the new grant is not part of a short-term action plan, with urgency and first to the mill for the municipalities, but a part of a long-term plan to ensure that municipalities are well prepared for the growth of the elderly from around 2020 onwards. The size of the population today, hopefully, is a good social economy. I would also like to stress that 12,000 care stations until 2015 are a first phase in a long-term thinking. In addition, we need about 12,000 more employees by 2015. On the basis of the agreement concluded here in Stortinget, the government will return with a new and better funding of the vocational schools. We will give priority to the education of geriatrics. We will, in concrete terms, implement measures of competence for employees without vocational training. We want to increase the investment in ethics and educational home services. I also want to confirm that the Government will come back annually with an assessment of the need for staffing and new care facilities, as agreed. The supply of mental health is essential for very many people. I am pleased that through this budget, we have put in place the last year in terms of the financial objective of the mental health escalation plan. Many people have had a much better everyday life, but it's also quite right that several speakers have had it on, that doesn't mean we're in it. So I'd also like to say from the government's side that sailing about the expiry date of the escalation plan is next year, doesn't mean that we're going to stop working to do the right things for those who need an effort in mental health, especially for children and young people. I share the Committee's assessment of the need to secure a good and sustainable offer for people with severe mental illness and long-term service needs. I will come back with a detailed assessment of other relevant actions for this group in the 2009 budget. Finally, it is important for me and for the Government to stress that we believe that the escalating plan for alcohol, with the money we have now proposed, is a start. That means that we have ambitions to strengthen it further over the years, not least for the sake of the many people who need even better help. The same applies to habilitation and rehabilitation, where we also need to strengthen that effort further. However, I do not share the view of the representative for Wage that what the Government has presented for next year is the worst – if I have understood correctly – that has ever been presented. It's not. But that doesn't mean we're in the goal of next year's government budget. We're going to sail on that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e742	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e745	In its observations, relating to private non-profit hospitals, the Council of State said that it would also come back for their part at the latest in the revised national budget for 2008, with a solution to the pension situation raised. The private, non-profit hospitals are organised as AS and have to deal with a law related to both the Accounting Act and the Share Act. That is to say, if these companies do not receive money in some way before the new year, they will be insolvent and will actually be entitled to notify their owners of it and, if necessary, to cease business. Will the Council of State ensure that there is also a short-term solution for these, so that they do not actually risk having to shut down the business? That's the first question. Question 2: It has been very important not to spend money on the part of the government in addition to a certain amount specified in the State budget, in St. prp. No 1st@item: Nevertheless, for the next year we see an increase of SEK 2.2 billion only in pension expenditure for health enterprises. My question to the Council of State is, how does this turn out to be in interest rates and in government finances?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e752	With regard to pension costs: there is no government decision, it comes as a result of the Accounting Act – with which the representative is well-known – and the system we have. With regard to regional health enterprises, I have explained that these costs should be excluded, as proposed by the Government; that they should not be counted in that way. When it comes to the question of private non-profit hospitals, I am very familiar with the serious situation that several of these hospitals are in. I would like to emphasise again that they are making a great effort for many people. Nevertheless, in isolation there is no liquidity effect, but there will be a deficit in the accounts for 2007 and 2008. I just have to repeat that we are seasily looking seriously at the matter. We work under high pressure with this matter, also in dialogue with representatives of these hospitals. The government will come back as soon as we have an answer in addition to allowing them to borrow from regional health businesses for the next year. But we'll be back in the revised national budget at the latest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e759	I allow myself a slight clarification first. I did not say that the draft budget is generally the worst, but I quoted the director of the Bergensklinik when he spoke about the drugs field alone, and he said – to the encouragement of the Council of State – that this is the second worst government has presented. The worst was the budget put forward by the Council of State last year. So to my question. The agreement, or the agreement, which some have even called it, has a strangely low level of ambition. I would like to quote one point, which I would like to ask the Council of State how she interprets, and that is: Today's education offer for higher education health and social care is being continued at about the current level until 2015. So, here you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you promise, you Does there need to be an agreement to promise that nothing will happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e768	I can inform the representative, when he pointed out in his presentation to the head of the Bergensklinikken, that the budget that was to be the worst last year was higher than the budget that Mr Bondevik II, who had the Minister for Health, presented. For one of the first things we did when we took over the government power was to add more money to, among other things. different anti-dumping measures. So I'll immediately admit that if we've given 350 million, we'll have to go. kr more from now on, including next year, does not mean that we are in target. We're going on, there's no doubt about it. But in the name of honesty, I hope you can stick to the facts and not create a blacker picture than that. As far as the agreement on care for the elderly is concerned, I feel that it is a very offensive agreement, and I believe that that agreement covers significantly more than what is involved in the level of education and the number of places we are going to have in the future. I think it's very obligating. It will mean a great deal in a positive sense to all those people who need safer and more dignified care for the elderly in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e777	I am pleased with the feedback on the elderly agreement we have entered into with the Government, and look forward to the follow-up. I agree with the Council of State that this is very concrete. That much is going to happen within this agreement, also in the extension of the care plan 2015, I am quite sure. My question concerns psychiatry. State councils mentioned children and young people as an important group on which we need to focus after the escalation plan. My question concerns another group, the long-term disease in psychiatry. A recent supervisory report has established that the offer is currently insufficient for this group and that it is not adapted to the needs. Government parties refuse to participate in a budget proposal to have a separate action plan in addition to the escalation plan for this group. My question is, how does the Minister of Health see that you can follow this group, because it has to be followed up further?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e785	The representative, Bavøy, points to a very important issue. I've also noticed what the committee says about those who are long-term ill in psychiatry or mental health protection. Let me first say that the government is very concerned that we should continue, possibly reinforce – a little depending on which groups we are talking about – the offer to people who need it, even after 2008. It will also apply to this group in particular, in addition to children and young people. I imagine that there is a need for some organisational changes in the service provision in general. Then I think about both treatment sites, treatment sites, and maybe the content of how we organise it. The government is working on this, and in general, we are now working on everything that concerns mental health protection, in very close dialogue with both user organisations and employee organisations. And I am absolutely sure that, in addition to what the Stortinget, the Christian People's Party and others are playing, it will come to a good conclusion on how to find better solutions for many of the patients we are talking about here and who do not always get a good enough offer – I totally agree with the representative in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e794	The representative of the Kjellerlaa from the Center Party was concerned about the development of the economy in healthcare businesses. He mentions especially Health North and Health south-east, and for that he has good reason. This year the budget line in Health North will be 160 p.m., and it will be 100 p.m., a double, in Health South-East, according to what the Evening Post wrote in the previous week. On November 21st, the Council of State and the signing of a small round here in the hall were talking about the management, possibly the lack of control, of health professionals. Of course, it's not just the percentages that are big here. The crown amount is formidable. We'll talk about billions. The total sum, if a take-over with pension funds, is less than the Norwegian rainforest bill. So my question to the Council of State is, is the Council of State satisfied with the economic governance we are now witnessing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e801	It is clear that there is a large amount of money when it is to be converted or made more efficient for about DKK 1 billion next year. If you convert it to a percent, we're talking about about 1 pst. when we have over 80 billion kroner in total at our disposal. But it is fundamentally undemocratic that some health businesses are taking care of and using more than the Biggest has allowed. I'm on it. We had similar challenges in Health Mid-Norway, to use that example, a short time ago, especially related to the St. Olav Hospital. It was taken tighter hold, it was replaced people, and now St. Olav's Hospital, and for that matter Haukeland University Hospital, which was also out to drive, is on the right course. That's what results are. Now in Health North there are major challenges. I'm going to go in there as focused as I've done in the Health West and in Health Mid-Norway. That means we'll evaluate the crew we have. Much stronger action will be taken in terms of economic competence. I can also say, as one key word, that we now have all the healthcare companies in each month where they have to report where they are in proportion to what the Stortinget has decided to do. There are also a lot of other things that we're already doing, and that are going to be reinforced next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e810	The prevention perspective is important, but the health care perspective is also crucial. We know that in Norway, like many other Western countries, we are getting a huge obesity problem in the population, related to inactivity, wrong diet, etc. It is therefore important to have a wide range of services in place in Norway related to this. On October 24th this year, I asked the Council of State about such a clinic in the municipality of Tingvoll in More and Romesdal. The councils then finally replied: ‘The last input from the initiators and the municipality is now in the final round, and we will make a final decision on this matter in a short time.’ This was in the Question Time on 24 October. My question to the Council of State is: There is not yet an answer to these initiators, and I wonder if the Council of State can tell me what she means to come back ‘in a short time’ as we approach two months later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e822	Firstly, I fully share the opinion of the representative Nesvik on the challenges we face, related to the life-style problems we face in the way of living – sitting down, food, etc. There's no doubt that obesity is a growing problem with us too. I also fully agree that we need many different offers to do something about it, ranging from lifestyle changes to operations, depending on age and the size of the problem, and in all parts of the country. When it comes to Tingvoll Municipality, it's about taking some time, also because you had to get a better overview of the total offer. As far as I know, we're not very far away from giving an answer, and I'm going to make sure that the representative Nesvik also gets that answer as soon as we're ready to report it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e829	The cord shift is over. The meeting will now take a break, and the meeting will be resumed at 9 a.m. 3:30. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 12.20. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30. President: Mr Eirin Faldet
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e844	The decision continues to deal with the case No. 1 and 2 on agenda No 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e847	In connection with the budget of the Health and Welfare Committee, we also deal with draft representatives. 8:74 for 2006-2007, which concerns MS patients and the use of the Tysabri medicinal product. Over time, we have recorded that there are some differences in practice in the different health care providers with regard to drug use, including patients with MS. Drug use has varied somewhat because of the country where you live, and among other things. this medicine concerns Tysabri, which some hospitals have started to use in the treatment of MS patients. Understandably, the different practices have created considerable uncertainty in many patients. It's vital to know if you get the right medicine when you have a serious illness. The entire Committee agrees with the proposers that MS patients must be offered the treatment they most benefit from after medical judgement, regardless of where they live. It is very reassuring for this patient group that the government is now proposing that anyone who needs it should receive this medicine. Brustad County Council has been very clear in its opinions on Tysabri, namely that ‘everyone who needs it will get it’. It has been discussed by the Committee. We need to have confidence in healthcare companies and in the fact that the doctors who are now treating MS patients are doing the right medical assessment based on patients getting the best treatment. When both a unanimous committee and the government have been so clear, we must have that trust. And when we've been so clear, it's because we're very concerned that that patient group needs to get the best treatment. The Committee has held a somewhat different view with regard to the financial instrument. I expect that the Progress Party, which has a different opinion from the rest of the Committee, can explain it for itself. But I don't think it's so important for patients if we here in the Storting are discussing the financing system, only they are assured that they will receive the best treatment. We have to promise to follow closely. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, refers to St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, where this is mentioned in detail. The majority of the Committee also points to the fact that the Social and Health Directorate, in cooperation with regional health companies, has developed criteria for indication, for the initiation, follow-up and termination of treatment with the medicinal product Natalizumab – a very difficult word! The transfer of financial responsibility from public funds to regional health establishments shall result in equal treatment within the financial instrument. Moreover, I agree with the principle put forward by the representative Ballo earlier today that there is reason to warn against the Storting discussing medicines in many contexts, as we do in this matter. Then I'd like to say a few words about the drug field. No one has so much to boast about the field of drugs. We haven't done so much, and we have a common responsibility for that. In fact, our shared responsibility also applies to the future drug policy, because we have failed to prevent, and we have failed to provide adequate treatment, and we have not actually succeeded sufficiently in following up the patients who come out of treatment, or out of prison, for that matter. Among other things, in recognition of it, the Government has now presented a escalating plan for the drug field. It creates high expectations and gives very many drug users and their relatives a new hope. I'll come back to the drug field on a later occasion today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e870	The government has also in the year’s budget followed up financially the planned mental health escalation plan with earmarked funds, but there are still significant challenges, both in terms of the community health service and the specialist health service. The National Audit Office’s survey, which was dealt with in the Stortingen last week, revealed major shortcomings and weaknesses in all service areas, including in the case of the measurement indicators used to measure the quality and development of services. Last week, the majority decided that children and young people under the age of 23 with mental illness, or who are addicted to alcohol, should have a shorter waiting period for assessment and treatment. The party of progress sees this as a big step in the right direction. Good measurement indicators need to capture the number of rejections, whether there is a distortion in the supply with regard to age, and also whether the frequency of consultation is increased. In order to avoid reducing the waiting time for young people leading to a weakening of the offer to those over 23 years of age, the Progress Party has strengthened its alternative budget by 100 million. Special attention is given to children and young people with mental illness. In addition, an increase of 20 million has been proposed. kr for the care of children and young people. The acute psychiatric supply is perceived to be unsatisfactory in many places, which may have serious consequences. We also see large differences in the provision of services from municipality to municipality, and the closure of institutional premises has led to many of the worst with serious mental disorders living at home. This leads to greater demands on the competence of municipalities and calls for the construction of more organised dwellings. Today, many mentally ill people live in ordinary nursing homes, while the municipality has to establish its own housing, departments or institutions, where the staff has the necessary psychiatric skills. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the Government establish its own grant scheme for the construction of 2,800 homes for people with mental disorders. We also see that earmarked funds must be allocated to manning the homes with 1,800 jobs. These posts must be in addition to the well-mentioned 10,000 annual jobs that should have gone to the care of the elderly. The target of 50 pst. The increase in productivity of DPS over the escalation period has been achieved in children and young people, but in adults the increase has been only 6 pst. This must be seen as a major and serious deviation from the objective. The Progress Party will also express strong concern that the target numbers of the escalation plan for the daily treatment of children and young people are now reduced from 500 to 400 places. The original measure of 500 places is today only met by 335 places. We're asking for the original measure of 500 to be maintained. We know that many young people do not receive suitable daily treatment. In this regard, I would like to point out to the many people with anorexia, and that Capio Anorexia Centers still have high available capacity and an unpredictable future. In the case of lowthreshold services, school health services and the professional competence of municipalities are crucial. But by the end of 2006, we saw that only 89 of the targets of 184 psychologists were established. The Progress Party will not place the earmarked funds in the 2009 framework funding, but will continue to earmark the grant to ensure that mental health is not the loser in the fight for funds. Then I will place this century's biggest and most important case in Eastfold a visit. The Eastern folds have been patient. They've been waiting for years. They've done the job of gathering around the location of a new hospital. They have closed local hospitals, individual departments, reorganised and reorganized. As we could read in the newspaper yesterday, there is also cause for concern. There is little doubt that the great uncertainty surrounding the construction of a new hospital has led to problems of recruitment and inappropriate organisation. The worn-out hospital in Eastfold can also be a contributing factor when the hospital reaches the lowest score in the patients. The inhabitants of Østfold deserve the planned hospital in Kalnes to be built in one building step and to be finished in 2014. It is also necessary to clarify the financing. Now patience is over. I suppose the Council of State has registered that a majority of the committee in the form of a comment expresses impatience in clarifying progress in the construction of the hospital in Eastfold. I hope that the Council of State will take with it the strong signals that I know come from my own party traps in the state, because this is a matter on which there is a cross-political agreement. I also hope that we will not take up this requirement again in the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e889	Today, we are going to allocate nearly 116 billion kroner for various purposes in the health and care field. There's a growth of 4.6 pst. in relation to 2007. The economy of hospitals is strengthened by DKK 3.46 billion in addition to the increase in wages and prices compared to the current year's ageing budget. This provides the basis for treating more patients, keeping the waiting time down and simultaneously renewing hospital buildings and equipment. Despite the fact that the government has invested more than ever and more than other governments to improve the supply and economy of the healthcare system, there are always new challenges to address. Looking back to 2005 and what marked the headlines in Trøndelag, there was a crisis at St. Olav's Hospital and Health Mid-Norway. Today we have a completely different situation, where management and employees in cooperation and in interaction with the Government have managed to turn focus from crisis to optimism. As far as I got along, Harald Tom Nesvik did not mention St. Olav's Hospital and Health Mid-Norway in one word. During the debate last year, Health Mid-Norway and St. Olav's Hospital were mentioned 51 times. It says something about that we've had a clear change in this area. The economic challenges remain — new large groups of patients seeking treatment and the need for continuous renewal of medical devices. These challenges can be addressed not only by increasing appropriations but by developing cooperation and interaction strategies with community health services, between health businesses and between health regions. It is very important to have both short-term and long-term health objectives. We have seen that the measures taken now work. New controllers, new leaders, more management, better cost control, better follow-up, better anchoring, more transparency and predictability have produced better results in Health Mid-Norway. In the case of St. Olav's Hospital, we've seen what we call horse-care in Trondelag, now works in a good way. With fewer beds and fewer employees, far more patients are being treated today than before. The waiting time is kept down, but the number in the queue has increased slightly. Despite this, it can be seen that sick leave has fallen, which is very positive. In an article in the newspaper yesterday, there were well-nourished nurses. Nearly 11,000 inpatients have participated in a study that says something about quality, both in public and private health services in Norway. The Health and Care Committee is very pleased that the high growth of popular fear in spending on medicines on blue prescription has now been reversed in recent years. This coincides with the fact that the Government has implemented a number of measures to reduce expenditure growth. The Health and Welfare Committee agrees with the Government that there is still room for new cuts in prices, in order to further reduce public and individual users’ costs. At the same time, it is important to continue to keep the propensity low, so that the sufferer is screened as closely as possible. I'm glad that a joint committee and the government want to focus more strongly on the most serious muscle disorder we have today, Duchenne. It's just guys that are being hit by this serious and rare muscle disorder. Guys with Duchenne stop going from 8 to 12 years old, and the disease is fast progressing. Therefore, children and their surroundings, i.e. parents, family and school and others, are constantly adapting to new situations. The Organisation Time for Life is doing an important job in collecting funds for clinical trials in Norway. Government parties want to support this effort to grant NOK 700000 for research in this area. Research on embryonic stem cells is expected to provide important knowledge and has treatment potential for genetic diseases. Each year, more than 500 people take their own lives. There are more than twice as many people killed in traffic. This is one of the greatest societal challenges we are now facing. Much positive has been achieved through the Roadmap for Mental Health, but there are still some remaining to ensure good quality and interaction in the service provision. It is therefore very gratifying that we are now receiving a waiting guarantee for children and young people under the age of 23 who suffer from mental illness. A maximum period of 10 days shall now be allowed for patients to assess their condition after referral from the first line service. International figures show that we Nordics live a long time and have good health. But behind the positive numbers, it hides socially-created and unfair health differences. After having enjoyed being sent to the U.N. Harvest Session and having seen and learned a lot about American health, there is no doubt that health and care services must be the responsibility of the community, based on a good public service offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e908	First, I would like to point out that the Right on an incurrency has been standing outside a note that a training, treatment and rehabilitation centre for people with morbidity is planned to be set up, in the premises of the Tingvoll district psychiatric centre, when this is planned to be closed in 2008. Of course, this measure is supported by the right. Thanks to the economic policy of the Co-operation Government over four years, the red-green government in the 2008 budget has over 130 billion kroner more to go with in increasing tax revenue than the previous government had in 2005. Nevertheless, the Government does not have the ability to give more to the people who need it the most. It concerns both the drug field and the rehabilitation area. The right and Cooperation Administration prioritised these areas, inter alia: in the context of drug reform and a strong growth in the number of treatment sites in drug-assisted rehabilitation and lowthreshold interventions. The right has continued this initiative even after we left the government offices. We did it last year, and the Right proposes a total of 550 million. In addition to the Government's proposals for rehabilitation, rehabilitation and action on drug addicts for next year. 250 million. This amount is intended to be used for the treatment of intoxication. Needs are high in the care of drug users, both in terms of the number of treatment sites, the number of workplaces, the training of workers, the provision of housing and help to return to life. Every six months since the Government joined, it has announced an escalating plan for the drug field. Expectations have grown as time has passed. When the plan finally arrived, the disappointment was great throughout the drug field, both among professionals and among drug addicts, and in the Right. We can only see that the government, despite having so much more money to travel with, does not give priority to those who have the most difficulty in our society. It makes it stinging opposite of what it says it's going to do, it breaks the promise after the promise. In addition, it is now becoming more difficult for private services and for patients who need a more complex offer over time. The requirements recently sent from Health South-East are a clear indication of where the road is going. The treatment provision is targeted at shorter treatment courses adapted to patients receiving medically assisted rehabilitation. I would strongly warn against this. Those who finally come to treatment are often very ill and have a complex need for treatment that goes far beyond purely medical. The change of course from the Government will lead to a lower offer to users, less freedom of choice and less diversity. In addition, I believe it is actually contrary to Stortinget’s intention when the drug reform was adopted in 2003. A year ago, a unanimous committee went in to ensure that rehabilitation would be the next major field of activity. The right had expected a binding escalating plan. The strategy submitted is far from being a step-up plan. The promise of escalation has been made for a slowdown. Adjusted for wage and price increases, there is no growth in the appropriations for rehabilitation. There is a cross-political consensus that it is a public responsibility to ensure a decent old age, to provide good hospitals offering treatment of the best quality, good drug treatment and rehabilitation that gives people new opportunities and a new chance of life. However, unlike the government parties, the right is not so concerned about, for example: are private individuals providing the services. The most important thing is that the public imposes quality requirements and that they pay for the services. Several of the private providers have pioneered and contributed to the development and development of good health and welfare services for decades. As a thank you for your help, the Government is trying at its best to suffocate those who are left. Governments will probably deny this, but you don't have to look for a long time to find examples: The treatment queues are growing, among other things. the purchase of less private treatment facilities and the weakening of provision of rehabilitation and training. The amount of the crown increases correctly, but fewer treatment points are purchased, many institutions go for half the machine, and fewer services are purchased in X-rays and laboratory services. We also know that private actors are ready to contribute in the field of child and youth psychiatry. The government must stop considering private service producers as a threat to public welfare, but rather contribute constructively to enabling all good forces that can and will to contribute to it – on equal terms and with the same framework conditions as the public. When it comes to rehabilitation for disabled children, I'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e932	In the health debate, we mostly talk about the large amount of money going to the hospital. The red-green government has increased budgets a lot, but nevertheless there is a big focus on everything that is not in place. We are concerned about it, as in North Norway, as in Telemark and in Westfold. The paper at home today writes about the emergency function proposed in Larvik, and that the Coast Hospital – as Jan Bøhler so eminently defended in his post – and Nordagutu must cut by 35 million. kr. It's a tough offer. I hope that the way we are going now – with increased grants for investment, increased operating grants and increased requirements to look at our own operations to improve – can preserve both hospitals and emergency facilities around. It is easy to understand the concerns of the citizens when the offers they have are threatened. I think it's great that it's commitment. The red-green government has said, and confirmed, that no local hospital should be laid down, and that must be followed up where appropriate. I'm afraid it's more places. The local hospitals must be filled, as the Schjäla said in his post, with functions that make them viable, and that recruit competence. We must have content, not just buildings. However, the health budget is also made up of the smaller amounts that are of great importance to individuals and individuals. I want to develop an area that I see that the red-green government has taken a good hold, namely the fight for a better life for all those affected by myalgic encephalopathy, ME. We have launched the national competence network to help find solutions and improve the everyday lives of those affected. In the budget we go on and do something for those who labor the most. A five-year pilot project is being established at Hysnes Healthet in Rissa Municipality with a work-oriented rehabilitation facility, where the target population is sick with ME. The goal is to get more people back to work. In addition, an offer is intended for those who are seriously ill and long-term bedridden in the area of Health South-East. Both measures focus on competence at ME. It is also important that those who are students and in educational situations are given the opportunity to continue in school what they are capable of doing, and that education is organised. From my own county, Vestfold, I know that such steps have been taken at high school in Larvik. There are several students who are affected, and home schooling is provided and organized after each of them. This shows the complex problem for these. I hope that such flexible solutions exist throughout the country. The government is in compliance with the psychiatry plan, and the escalation plan is under way. We have adopted the waiting list guarantee, which is also mentioned from this pulpit earlier today, and there has been a significant lifting. But here too, we see the challenges further. Although the escalation plan has been completed, we need to maintain the pressure. I want to pay particular attention to the children, which is the weakest group. 20 pst. of the earmarked funds shall be used for children and young people with mental health problems and disorders. I would like to mention in particular the focus on health stations, school health services and prevention. Multi-disciplinaryism is necessary and several psychologists are involved in this important work. I know that Skien has the good experience with psychologists in the health care of young people. At such lowthreshold levels, it is best to target the target population. In the 2007–2012 National Strategy Plan on Work and Mental Health, there is an increased focus on the transition from children to adults and on the challenges that may arise. The training programme in mental health at school has one objective: to put mental health in school on the agenda. Increased knowledge, both for students and teachers, will increase understanding and the ability to address the problems. This shows that the Government takes this seriously, and they have good action to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e949	To a large extent, the budget and the debate on why we cannot afford to give priority to a wide range of health promotions – think about it! – why we cannot afford to implement health promotion measures against a population in a country flowing with money! Different types of argument are used to prevent our own population from providing the best possible health care: the risk of interest rate increase, inflation, action rules and other abominations are being used, we believe Steinar Gullvåg of the Workers' Party in the debate on transport. The consequence in this case is that we do not provide the population with the healthcare we should, by strengthening enough research at ADHD, where over 12,000 are currently being medicated, by actively prioritising medical research on diabetes, which has become an increasing population disease, by prioritising dementia research and causality and treatment modalities related to ME, by implementing cervical cancer vaccines in the vaccination programme, in line with countries such as Sweden, Australia and England. We know that the latter would lead to a severe reduction in cervical cancer cases. If we wanted to give the people the best possible offer and make it possible for us to meet tomorrow's health challenges, the Committee should be in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party in these areas. The last year has shown that government policy does not meet the needs of the population for a good health supply in large parts of the country, either in terms of governance or in terms of the economy. Last summer, several of the food departments in the districts were closed for summer. The rehabilitation offer in East Finland was imposed on summer holidays, and now the weekend offer in the specialist health service in orthopaedics has been removed from Kirkenes. Professional competence, professional environment and the provision of the population are weakened, and I would like to remind you that it is not Bondevik I or II who has implemented this, but that it is the current government that is responsible for a worse health service in the districts. Lack of ability to manage health businesses and lack of financial resources lead to improvements in the professional environment, poor working conditions with sick leave and poor health services. There is mention here of the formation of a new political party in Finnmark, the Health and Welfare Party. The leadership of the party is former members of the Workers' Party who are very dissatisfied with their own government and the fury of the health service in Finnmark. This is not a question of negative representations in the press, as the representative Bøhler says. Nor is there a small problem in Finnmark, as the representative Ballo, who wants to tone the problem, says. There is great dissatisfaction with your own government from those who chose the Government in. It is regrettable that there are economic, external reasons on the basis of what we provide of health services to our people in a country with over 2,000 million. NOK at book and go with an annual surplus of NOK 340-350 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e964	Michael Moore’s new film ‘Sicko’ shows how strongly the idea of a public health service – where everyone is going to get the help they need, regardless of personal finances and insurance schemes – is in all Western countries other than the United States. I'm glad that the government is betting on public health, or ‘socialised health’, which right-wing forces like to scare in the United States. Among several initiatives in the 2008 budget, I believe that the strengthening of the hospital budget is particularly important. The economy of hospitals is strengthened by more than DKK 3.4 billion compared to the 2007 budget, or nearly SEK 3.9 billion if we include funds through the Roadmap for Mental Health and the Roadmap for the drug field. The budget involves increased appropriations both for patient treatment and for the re-acquisition of hospital buildings and equipment. Lack of funds for investment has been an unresolved challenge ever since the hospital reform, and it is good that there is now a promise. For example, Health West gets 330 million. kr in increased investment funds. That this comes into place is one of several elements that together will help clean up the hospital economy. Another of these elements is the distribution of income between health regions. Last year, fresh funds were first allocated to correct bias, and then the Magnussen Committee was set down to go through the income distribution system again. When the selection is about to deliver its position, we need to work politically with a view to the fairest possible distribution in Hospital-Norway. I will not hide the fact that there are still major challenges in the hospital sector: The hospital economy needs to continue to be strengthened so that patient treatment can be further increased and new technologies can be used.Pension costs are rising sharply for both 2007 and 2008.Norway health services are among the best in the world, and the average life expectancy is high, but much can still improve, for example. in the treatment of cancer. Shorting down average waiting time must be an important objective. At the same time, I believe it is also essential that the waiting time is the shortest for those who need it the most. These two objectives may in some cases conflict with each other. Average waiting time is a rough measuring instrument that includes many patient groups. I hope that the Norwegian patient registry will gradually be able to give us figures that show waiting time trends for different groups, so that it will be easier to assess whether it is the sickest who are being treated first and to work for it politically. Last year, the number of annual shifts in the care sector increased by 5,900. Through a strengthened municipal economy, the Government will facilitate 2000 new annual works in the care sector next year. Overall, the Government can reach the target of 10000 new annual works by 2009. In the 2008 budget, there is also an investment grant for nursing homes and nursing homes. I've looked a little bit at the Statistical Central Bureau's websites. Norway is among the top ten in the world in life expectancy, both for women and for men. Since 1990 life expectancy has increased by two and a half years for men and one and a half years for women. Only in the last five years have life expectancy increased by over one year. These are amazing numbers. At the same time, more and more loneliness is experiencing in an increasingly large part of life. ‘Loneliness has unfortunately become a people’s disease’ said the representative Eirin Fallet when the Stortinget dealt with the Government’s care notification earlier this year. The government has said that social and cultural conditions need to be strengthened in the care of the elderly. I am pleased that a majority of the Committee has agreed on an agreement on the concreteisation of the Health Plan 2015, in areas such as dignity, competence, dimensioning and active care. For example, there is agreement on ‘Stimulating the voluntary sector to continue contributing to care for the elderly and caregivers’ and ‘Proposals for stepping up cultural action from 2009’. Among the many health and care budget issues that receive less political attention, but which are nevertheless important to many people, I will end up bringing forward two issues that concern me in particular: The students' mental health services in Bergen get 1 million. kr in the increase in the budget of the Health West, so that the grant to the Student Health Service in Bergen is about the same level as in Oslo and Trondheim. I would like to thank the State Council for cleaning this up. The Social and Health Directorate is tasked with assessing the organisation of a wider range of centres of expertise than is now available at the Rare Diagnosis Centre in relation to patients with Huntington disease. I hope this means we're going a step further in the work of a patient group who's having a very difficult time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1005	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1008	A little more about drugs: In Norway, there are therefore as many drug injectors as there are people living in a medium-sized municipality, between 8 000 and 13 000. Within 130 000 people have alcohol problems. In addition, all those who abuse pills, cocaine, amphetamines, etc. We know that most drug addicts have suffered, suffer or suffer from mental illness. Nordics drink alcohol as never before. We accept that more alcohol is being consumed than before, in several ways. There's more drinking at work, women drink more, alcohol damage increases, and, as we've talked about in this room before, we know that alcohol is often the entrance ticket to other drugs. So this area is going to be one of the biggest challenges health Norway is going to face in the future. As we discussed not so long ago in an interpellation debate in this room, we may not know the future approach to some of the chemical drugs that we are talking about here. That's why we really need an escalating plan for the drug field. A number of instruments lie within that plan of action – many cost money. No, that's not enough money. But actually, it doesn't cost all the money, because it's also about having respect for people who are sick of their drug abuse, and we have to do something about our attitudes to get it done. I am very happy that we are now receiving a waiting guarantee for children and young people under 23. It's a very good start. I still think that we need a number of measures in addition, and many of them actually come out in the Ruplan of the Government. We need quick and accessible help. It's one of the most important things for many of those who are ill with drugs. The Ruplan places great emphasis on the fact that the job is to be done outside the municipalities. I think that the expression used in the proposition, "several people with boots on," is a pretty good term for what we're talking about. We need more ambulance teams. We need more people in the school health service. We need more of what we like to call low-threshold offers. Then I have to say that I don't think this government has the conscience to just let drug addicts go too lye and cold water. I am absolutely convinced that this government has such a bad conscience to the drug addicts we're talking about, that they're going to try to do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1019	For us who are concerned with developments in the health and care sector, this is a very good budget. It was also very happy with the agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is a settlement with a high emphasis on the development of competences in the care of the elderly, and it is therefore very surprising that the Right does not participate in the conciliation. In previous debates and also today, through a proposal for a representative, I have seen that there is a particular focus on the development of competence in this sector of the Right. We have very good health and care services in Norway, but we also see deficiencies. Especially in the care of the elderly, we are sometimes reminded that not everything is as it should be. Focusing on the development of competences in this sector is absolutely necessary. It is therefore gratifying when it comes to the recruitment and specialist training of doctors for the care of the elderly, that higher education courses for nurses are strengthened professionally with demands for research competence, that the vocational training of health professionals be developed, and that a rate of new and improved funding of the vocational schools in the health and social fields by 2009. All of this is necessary if we are to have an elderly care we are satisfied with. All measures for the development of competences are important. But in this round, I want to focus on recruiting health professionals and how to keep them in the care sector. It will be a major challenge in the future because there is a failure to search for this important education. The Workers' Party is concerned with advising young people in secondary school. We want a division between social educational and vocational counselling, as the Stortinget decided in ours. We will follow this up, so that young people receive better advice in relation to future career choices. The new programme of choice in secondary education also gives young people the opportunity to taste in higher education. This, I think, if health and social education know their visiting hours, can be a good opportunity to get young people to know what kind of great work they can get by training as health professionals. In particular, it is possible through such a dialogue to recruit more boys to a sector that is currently highly women-dominated. It is necessary to follow-up those who are unskilled in the sector and there are still many of them. Both through the course and not least through the provision of training for health professionals, we can ensure the professional quality of the sector. It is a prerequisite for adapting educational provision to their situation as adults. It can help more people than high school. Among other things, there are many good experiences in setting up study associations. They can easily adapt a scheme that can be combined with having a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1030	I want to focus on an area that is very rarely debated, but that is very important. It's privacy. Privacy is under constant pressure, not least within the healthcare system. Confidential, intimate and very personal information is naturally provided to health professionals, and the information is collected in patient records. It is necessary to have such a system to get the best possible treatment for disease, but it is when these sensitive personal data are demanded by other agencies and agencies, we have to put question marks, and we have to put big question marks. We had a little round about this in the committee, really too little, but all the parties, except for the government party, have a common note that we have to be special about the negative trend towards the fact that the obligations to care for health professionals must increasingly give way to other interests. In this note, we point out that some patients warn against providing confidential information, by pointing out that NAV can require the delivery of complete patient records without justification and without obtaining the consent of the patient. At least there were stories that flourished. It is clear that the obligation to provide services is fundamental to the trust between the patient and the doctor, and an obligation for health services to be able to carry out a satisfactory job. I must say that I am surprised that the government party is not included in this comment. I am surprised that they are not as concerned about the pressure on privacy, not least in the health sector, but I hope that the Council of State will take this challenge seriously, and preferably even more seriously than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1041	Norway is a strange country. We've never been richer, yet we shimmer torches across the country from north to south. The facsimiles are there to indicate that they do not want their local hospital services to be closed. In the distance, they see the sparkle from Soria Moria in the fog. But against the facts, the glitter of Soria Moria must be lost. Today, the hospital director at the hospital in Vestfold has made suggestions to close the emergency room at Larvik Hospital. It has to be laid down – just because he thinks they're saving money. The reality is likely that they are not going to save much, but nevertheless: he is proposing that it be laid down. So with that, you put down what people see as their local hospital. Putting down what contributes to local security and security in society, despite promises of the opposite. Today we have also received another news: the rehabilitation hospital is required to cut 35 million kroner. kr. It corresponds to an operating grant of 17 pst. 17 p.m.Oh, my God! Reality is a dramatic reduction in the offer, and the hospital director of the rehabilitation hospital is very clear about who will suffer from this cut. There are patients who have had polio, patients who have had ALS – a nervous disorder that paralyzes muscles in the long term – patients who have suffered from Parkinson’s disease, and patients who have had second hip surgery and first knee surgery that it will go down on. This occurs in a situation where the rehabilitation year is to be 2008. It takes place in an area which is the only field of activity specifically mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration in this field – 17 p.m. Cut, cut, We are now looking at examples of the whole country that the Soria Moria declaration is breaking. At least people think it's broken. Time and again, questions about local hospital services are raised with the Council of State, and the Council of State is pushing responsibility downwards. She doesn't take responsibility for the hospital structure. It is dramatic for the communities affected, and in the long term it is dramatic for the entire Norwegian emergency service. I strongly allow myself to ask the Council of State to come down from the pedestal of the discharge and do the job properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1054	I would like to say a few words about habilitation and rehabilitation, especially when it comes to children. We know that many disabled children and young people need help in habilitation to feel equivalent both in terms of opportunities for an independent life situation and the possibility of a social life with family and friends. This can take place through the organisation and training of the individual child’s ability to master activities in everyday life. I am therefore pleased that the Health and Welfare Committee, in its position, mentions Valnesfjord health sports centre as an environment that should be assessed in the context of the establishment of a centre of competence for the rehabilitation of children and young people with disabilities. At Valnesfjord health sports centre, professional resources are already in place. They have worked actively with children and young people in good cooperation in the school and leisure sector for 25 years. But we need more research in this field and much more coordination and answers to what brings the greatest health benefits. Valnesfjord’s health sports centre is working on this. They double their consumption of children and young people in 2007, and in addition, there are special activity weeks several times a year. Over the course of one year, this has given 250 children and young people good offers, with good results. Valnesfjord also places the emphasis on work against municipalities in order to work together after the children have received the necessary treatment in the institution. Then they need follow-up in the home municipalities. Valnesfjord health sports centre is located on the border of a soon-established national party to be the Barna National Park. This is an exciting matter in relation to nearby activities in the future, and here the health sports centre, the Nordland County Municipality and, in particular, the county of Nordland will cooperate on leisure activities as an essential part of children’s development physically, mentally and socially. Outdoor life has elements and mastering tasks that are absolutely necessary in a habilitation phase. So finally, I would like to thank the red-green members of the Committee for the work they have done on this important topic, and I am looking forward to Valnesfjord health sports centre becoming a national habilitation centre for children and young people. Children in Norway are entitled to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1067	It is well documented that the provision of rehabilitation to children fails both in the community health service and in the specialist health service. This is about a group of children who are extra vulnerable and vulnerable. Their rights are threatened. Parents are subjected to unnecessary burdens due to heavy red tape and large-scale forms, unbridled schemes and lack of competence of public authorities. For the Right, freedom of choice is not just a slogan; it is an important principle. It must also apply to parents following intensive programmes for the training of children with acquired brain damage. This is a unique group of parents, who spend a considerable amount of work and who are a large and important resource for their children. All children are different, and all parents have different opportunities to carry out intensive programmes over several years. Right-wing people expect health and social security management and municipalities to find good solutions around each family based on equivalence, regardless of where they live in the country, so that they can feel secure that they can get the support and assistance they need and demand. These are families who have large and heavy care tasks, and they must be spared to have to fight to get legal and necessary help and support. The size has previously drawn up important principles for the rights and opportunities to be granted to these children and their parents. One principle on which the Storting has been based is that parents should have the freedom to choose the training method. In the past, an overall increase has indicated that parents must have the freedom to choose between alternative training programmes and respect for parental choices. But then came the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party in government, even in majority, and then it ended with respect. The government party's lack of respect for parents' experience and choice upsets me. They say they're positive to freedom of choice, but only to the choices they think are right. Parents possess a unique competence and experience, and the Right and the other opposition parties believe that an independent and user-driven centre of competence and resources in the rehabilitation of children needs to be established. Such a centre could play an important key role in Norwegian habilitation, and contribute to helping more people. But the government parties are against it. I don't think so. I think they show disrespect for their parents' knowledge and competence. Right will put good and functional frameworks around these families, making the future of the children as best possible. It's a very demanding task for the parents, and I have deep respect for the job they're doing. They deserve all the help and support they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1084	I am going to use this opportunity to make an article based on personal experience of the meeting with the Norwegian health service. I have regrettably in the last year needed help from the Norwegian health service and from the hospital service. There has been an experience that is certainly useful to me as a staggering representative to bring with me, but it is also a story that shows that there are significant weaknesses in the Norwegian hospital system. I don't want my colleagues here at Stortinget to get sick, but it's regrettable if we're going to learn how the health care system works, because we're getting sick and then have to meet the system. I understand that people get long-term sick and unemployed in this country when they don't get better follow-up than what they get. This was my first meeting with the hospital service in my 37th year. I hope it takes a long time for me to experience similar situations again. First, it takes a long time, several months, to get from regular to specialist at the hospital. I get to meet a good specialist at the hospital, but I am told that there is another department that should look at my suffering. So it takes months to meet this next specialist. I was then told that I would meet at the X-ray department at the same hospital, but it was I who had to tell my specialist that I had been and taken X-rays at Akershu University Hospital. I think it's pretty dull. Couldn't my X-ray image go straight into the specialist's inbox? So, after I had been in the system for nearly a year, I was told that I had to be operated – there was no bomb – but that there was a waiting time of well over half a year for this relatively simple operation. If I hadn't gone to do this privately, I couldn't have been in the Great Britain's pulpit today, because I had been sickened – long-term sick – with the costs it would bring to society, and also with the suffering it would bring to me. I'm absolutely sure those who get acutely ill in this country are getting a good and quick treatment. But in the case of those of us who have suffered less acutely, I think a lot of people experience that they are being treated slowly. When I've told people about my story I know, I'm going to confirm corresponding stories from others. So I couldn't go and wait another six months, but I chose to go to the private health service to perform a relatively simple operation. I contacted Aleris Hospital here in Oslo and was operating the day after. The day after! It is obvious that we need competition in the Norwegian health system. I don't take the chance to be treated like this one more time, so I have now taken out private health insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1100	There's been a film by Michael Moore recently at the cinema that's presented to the US Health Service, where he brings some former soldiers to Cuba to get better treatment. It is, of course, caricatured, but it also makes it apparent that the total private health care system, with private health insurance, does not necessarily provide good solutions. What makes it particularly visible is how inappropriate resource use becomes. However, examples of better cooperation, better use of resources, better use of X-rays by institutions other than those in the primary area can be found in Norway. Therefore, it is important that we monitor how resources are used, based on a discussion of whether improvements can be made. When I asked for the word, it was because Jan-Henrik Fredriksen meant to have understood that I should have argued for the closure of offers in Finnmark. I did not mention Finnmark in my post at all, so here Fredriksen has heard too badly after. The example I used was within orthopaedics, and that of course also concerns Finnmark. It is thought-provoking when surveys are made that were carried out at the hospital I was – which was not a Finnmark hospital, but a Telemark hospital – and it is found that services that politicians are also involved in arguing very hard to maintain are proving to be so little used that without difficulty the kind of emergency arrangements could be phased out and the resources spent on what are more at stake here, strengthening rehabilitation services, and, as Gunn Olsen very well points out, the need to strengthen drug-dependent measures that are also emergency treatment. Instead, you appeal to a rhetoric where you defend services that we should be the first to put the spotlight on and see if you shouldn't regroup and structure in another way. I have to say that there's one thing we shouldn't give ourselves to here, it's, of course, to free, in an easy way, to an insecure population belonging to a part of the local hospitals, who could actually have strengthened their services considerably if we showed the ability and willingness to restructure. But instead, we're playing up to that fear, without getting the reality out. I am absolutely convinced that the 84 billion kroner, a significant amount currently spent on specialist health services, could have given more health – as far as Inge Wohnung was concerned too – if we had been willing to make more changes in today's structure. It does not mean shutting down local hospitals, but it means that in the future a number of local hospitals should have completely different functions from what they have today, in order to better meet the needs of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1112	I would like to say a few words about the MIDI project, which is mentioned in the budget setting. And I see a majority say that they are concerned that information on genetic research cannot be given to insurance companies. It was clarified very early in the project that such information is covered by the prohibition in the Biotechnology Act against the use of data from non-health genetic studies. Now I have been informed by the Social and Health Directorate – and I think it is right that the Stortinget be informed immediately – that they have not accepted the Public Health Institute’s application for approval of the MIDI project as it is today designed. The Public Health Institute has therefore been asked to stop recruiting new participants for the project. The Social and Health Directorate opens up the possibility for the Public Health Institute to come back with proposals for reorganisation and design for this project and to reapply for approval. In principle, the decision of the directorate means that the material already collected cannot be used because it has been illegally obtained. In view of the families involved in this project, I will now consider the measures that need to be taken to ensure that this material can be used, if necessary, so that the contribution of these families has not been in vain. But this I will come back to. Then I want to join all that Ballo said in the end. Obviously, we're going to take, and we're going to take, most seriously, the negative experiences like this. The representative Kielland Asmyhr has had and as others have had. But I'll warn you not to draw a too black picture of what the world looks like. When we look at user surveys, we look at videos here and there, we look at what people who have been admitted to say, there are also a lot of people who are very satisfied. It is not possible to say as the representative of Fredriksen here, that there is a crisis and a breakdown of the health service in our country. So we have one of the world's best health services! It's supposed to be improved, it's supposed to be even better – but we've been employing 10,000 new people in a few years. We've never spent so much money, and we've never treated so many patients – and that's the right use of money, too, as this government sees it. Thinking that one shouldn't make any changes in the organisation of how we use our health funds, I think it's going to be completely wrong, because if we're going to get a better quality of our health services, we need to continue a work sharing. That doesn't mean I don't take all the examples that have been up in this debate here, but it's been said that we can't treat colon cancer in 55 hospitals. It's seaworthy that we have to centralize some of the things that it has to be a specialist on. But then it's been said that local hospitals can do a lot, a lot more of it like that. For elderly chronic patients – dialysis or what it is. Then it will hit some blows. I really hope that what Fredriksen has said here does not mean that the Progress Party will not be involved in any changes, because then I'm afraid, for the quality of the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1121	A few words about a few things. With regard to the Tingvoll course and action centre, the representative Sonja Sjøli noted that there is a minority in the budget of the Progress Party and the Left. This is a relatively new and rebuilt center, I understand. In recent times, I have gone in and looked at the documents that are available, and I just want to say that the Christian People's Party also supports it. I would also like to refer to the question put by the representative Harald T. Nesvik to the Council of State earlier today, about exactly Tingvoll, and that it will be important if they get a positive feedback, as we see it. Then the representative Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen was inside ME patients. It is very positive that in many ways the Council of State has taken hold of this difficult and evil state that many suffer today, not least many young people. Hysne's health care is certainly good for those who can manage to get to work, and fortunately there are some who can do it after having had the disease. Ten beds shall be established at Health South-East for some of the worst — perhaps also being investigated and hopefully some research related to this disease. The competence network, which is also built-in, will continue its funding next year. It will be an important network for this group. But I must also say that some people are at home today. I get many enquiries from young people – unfortunately not from them, because they can't contact, but from parents or spouses. It is true that neither the NAV nor the specialist health service have always understood that this is actually a disease. To just mention a very small example: a young person has been lying for one year in a completely dark room, has been fed through a probe and has not been able to turn around in bed. When the NAV office then demands that they both go to psychiatrists and start psychiatric treatment, to rule out that this is about psychiatry, something hacking is wrong. The fact is that the treating doctor at the hospital also wondered if it was possible to be so sick without any mental illness. I have asked the Council of State to send a circular to municipalities and NAV offices in cooperation with the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, which I have not received a positive response yet. I really hope that the Council of State will take this with it again, because it is dramatic for many of those who are lying there and actually not getting help today – anno 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1132	Only one short line: In my post where I talked about prevention, I said that we redispatched 0.02 per million of the budget for prevention. It's a huge error, it's going to be 0.2 per million. That's a lot more. I'm glad that Olav Gunnar Ballo is back in the committee – he was the one who whispered in my ear that I had to do this again. Seventy-seven million. So NOK 84 billion is going to be 0.2 per million.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1139	I note that the previous speakers have increasing pro-mille – I am glad that it stopped at 0.2. Let me briefly comment on the information given by the Council of State on a study conducted by the Institute of Public Health. [[Laughter]] It was a valuable and interesting information for Stortinget, as the committee has had this during observation. I just want to add that now that you have put your foot down because this is clearly contrary to the provisions of the Biotechnology Act on privacy, it makes it even more incomprehensible how a project could have been started without clarifying such an elemental relationship in advance. I asked a question in the reply letter after the Council of State posts that the Council of State unfortunately did not have the right to answer. I asked for an explanation of how the Council of State understands the point of the agreement concluded between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, where it says that "the educational capacity of the day for higher education in health and social matters continues at about the current level until 2015". So it means zeroing the capacity in this area for eight years to come. I think it's a little strange that we have to make a deal about ‘on-site march’ for eight years in terms of educational capacity. I can certainly extend the question to the other parties who have participated in putting their name under the agreement, because the Christian People's Party and the Left have in another case – which we will come to in a little bit, namely in Document No. 8:114 for 2006-2007 – join in on a proposal where they say the exact opposite. I quote from paragraph 3 of the vote on this proposal, where: ‘The Swedish Government asks:Evaluate the need for increased educational capacity for nurses and other highly educated staff to ensure that a greater proportion of staff in the care sector have higher education.’ This point of the agreement involves a significant reduction in the level of ambition in relation to a very central point in the knowledge gap for the care sector. This is one of the reasons why we on the Right have not found any basis for participating in that agreement – partly because it is so unprecise on essential points that it is almost impossible to read any concrete content in it. Also at the points where it's accurate, the level of ambition is lowered in a way that we can't be involved in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1159	In the election campaign, the Labour Party had a slogan: 'Everybody should join'. It is nice to have a target at which to leave a job. But the Council of State should ask itself the question, is there anyone left? That's to say, she doesn't have to ask -- I know the answer: everybody doesn't get involved. A study at the University of Oslo shows that one of the four girls who leaves the school of youth is struggling with depression. One out of ten boys wear it out with the same thing. There was a difference between the schools. That's great, because it shows that one can actually do something about this, that we can get hold of those schools where there are extra big problems. The government’s proposal for a waiting list guarantee means that all children and young people under the age of 23 will receive help within 90 days. That's great, but 90 days is often not enough. In 90 days, a lot of drama can happen. It is also too little focus on this that children and young people should not get to the point where they need the waiting list guarantee. That's why it's time for a low-threshold lift. For example, the school attendance at many schools has been examined. The results were discouraging. It's about part-time settings and that the school nurse has 40–60 seconds for each student per student. week. This makes it impossible for us to do enough with those who have started to struggle with problems. Instead of tackling the problems before young people may get their lives ruined, they end up on a waiting list. I know that the Council of State is going through a review of the school community. In the Christian People's Party we think it's time we asked the question of an e.g. Maybe you should have had a minimum time per. student, if it would be possible at an hour in a health sister once a year, and if the school nurse should also have been more interdisciplinary than she is today. Is this what the Council of State is considering? In a society where everyone is going, it's important that you focus on those who are not. But we must not forget those who are present today, but who are still standing. We have great opportunities to prevent young people from experiencing problems. The question is whether we can seize the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1176	If the representative of Ballo wants to maintain a response time for the ambulance service that will strengthen the professional development of the staff while offering a good offer to the population in the districts, he has the full opportunity to do so by supporting our Document No. 8:81 for 2006-2007, which comes up for treatment later today. It is also a proposal that SV promoted together with the Progress Party in the treatment of St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000. When the opposition page talks about the private Norwegian health service, we talk about the lack of private services in the Norwegian health service, which, unfortunately, with the government we have, is getting worse and worse. Regarding the orthopaedic offer in East Finland – or the lack of it – I think we should be aware of one thing, and that is that we all see the need to have a high enough professional level of services provided by hospitals. But we also have to put this up against the security we have to give our own people. We know that the population of East Finland has a distance of nearly 70 miles to the nearest hospital. So someone who lives in the Drama had to go to Snåsa to get what we're talking about here. Then it is no wonder that people react – be cursed and feel cheated by today’s government. That's why the outbreaks that have formed a new political party are just coming from the Workers' Party. This is not the problem of the Progress Party, but the problem of the current Council of State and the current Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1185	Most of it has been said in this debate, so I'm just going to try to answer a couple of invitations that have come in various posts. To the Council of State, I would just like to say right away: of course, the Progress Party also wants changes, and we want to see other ways of spending money. I was myself concerned with the importance of using the effort, among other things. in hospitals in order to reduce unnecessary hospitalisation. We should look at the way the departments are organized, in the hospitals. There's a lot of work to do here. The Progress Party looks forward to being a contributor to this. That's why I hosted three hospitals only this fall, and I've hosted one more in the final phase, so it's going to be four. The representative Asphjell challenged me to the St. Olavs Hospital. That's right what he says about the 2005 headlines, but the big debate in 2005 focused on, among other things. on when a member of the Psychiatric Centre at St. Olav's Hospital, which up to several representatives from the South-Tronde Team who are now members of the Government, took the floor. It has so far been taken out of the plans of St. Olav's Hospital. It does not fall within the appropriations available. In this way it will be especially important to follow that case. There have also been some invitations related to the so-called "age agreement". Some call it an old-age settlement, some have mentioned it as an agreement. What's special is that all the parties have actually said that you agree with the content. So here the government has really backing enough to get this going. You could say why the Progress Party didn't agree to sign the proposal: it's exactly the so-called gimmick you used there, that you took what's the content, completely out of perspective. The Christian People's Party has even downplayed its own Document No. 8 proposals relating to the guarantee of dignity, since the proposal is based on the fact that a guarantee of dignity is to be entered into, to say ‘respect’ in the contract. Furthermore, the Progress Party is the only party that actually supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party for a guarantee of dignity, which will be discussed later. Further progress is also being made at the level of competence. It is also reflected in this agreement. Sometimes you can get the impression – and get confirmed – that empty barrels fall the most. This is a clear example of this. I am very pleased that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have now announced that they also support an application from the Tingvoll Centre related to what has to do with follow-up. I hope the Council of State will give a positive attitude to that matter, because the only alternative centre that has been in that region, in that county, has just been closed down as a result of not having an agreement with the regional health company. The population in that area therefore needs to get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1200	Rune J. The slider has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1203	The representative Inge Wohnning asked about the content of the agreement and indicated that today's educational capacity for higher education health and social health is continuing at around the current level until 2015. The background to it is that of the care notification, which says that if you keep this level of education, you will have enough university-trained personnel in the care sector with an increase of 10 pst. It's solid. Then it goes on to say in the agreement that plans are to be made. Well, it turns out these numbers are too low. But there must be plans at all levels, so we must assess this need every year. So, in my opinion, the agreement is very good, so it takes care of education at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1211	More have been concerned with what I mentioned in my article earlier today, that we are at the top of the world using public funds for health. It's probably like we're knifed with Switzerland, which I think we're about to pass, with San Marino and with a couple more small republics, maybe. We have a lot of positive to point out, as both I and others have been about earlier today. But if we compare our results with other countries that don't spend much money, it's also clear, as Inge Wohnning said, that we're not at the top of the world in all areas. That's why, from my point of view, I would now focus more on what steps are needed to improve resource use and improve health quality, rather than even more money. And I think the comments that have been made in the course of the debate, both from Ballo, from the Council of State and to some extent from others, for example. In terms of pay, the question of concentrating highly specialised services in order to provide better and safer services of higher quality and to better sort what to build up at local hospitals has been interesting. It is obvious that the work on this sorting cannot be done piece by piece and division, neither within the Health South-East process, within the capital process – or elsewhere. General initiatives from the Ministry are needed to enable this to start in the right place. I also think that there have been good comments on this with a better flow, a better development, of the interaction between municipal and health enterprises. It's dangerous if patients become caste balls for financial reasons. I think that is particularly true in the area of drug treatment, in the area of psychiatry and in some other patient groups that we have been dealing with, among other things. chroniclers. Both the representative Ballo, Wohnung and Davøy have been involved in this in their contributions, so I see that here it is a great task for us in the committee to move forward. The same applies to the funding system — the creation of a funding system that can better take care of the entire treatment process, from early detection and prevention in municipalities to day care and hospitalisation at specialist hospitals, and to rehabilitation and follow-up in municipalities. We still have a job to do if we're going to be able to create it. That's not the way to go to increase the share of the price to 60 pst, which the Progress Party alone wants. However, the answer should be to obtain as much equal funding as possible for all parts of the treatment, as many have experienced. I think that important input has also been made into how we can build prevention. I thank the committee leader, Nesvik, for commenting on our proposals on diabetes. And I hope that we can take this debate further – both in terms of the points I have now had, and in terms of other parts, such as further efforts to deal with drug use and to implement the old age agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1224	When one sits on the back bench here and listens to the debate, one almost wonders which country the Norwegian health care system is compared to. I am not familiar with what is described here by some representatives. I want to refer again from the study that was presented in Dagbladet yesterday. It said: ‘Enjoyed. 10,912 patients over 16 years of age, admitted to hospitals last November, have said how they experienced medical care, care, the standard, treatment of relatives, organisation of work and information on tests and examinations.’ It also stated that ‘the results show that patients are largely satisfied’, and that ‘this concerns most hospitals and most of the areas in which they have been asked’. Never before have several patients been treated in Norwegian hospitals. New treatment services are being set up. Never before have Norwegian hospitals been able to work more highly skilled people, such as assistant nurses, nurses, doctors, engineers, etc. New and more specialities are established. In the case of well-run local hospitals, the Government and the Government want to look at how to get a better division of tasks. The hospitals competent in one area do what they need to do there, so the rare diseases are treated at the best hospitals, which have the best prerequisites for providing good and safe treatment. In the case of the local health care operation, it is stated: ‘The Minister of Health and Health refers to the budget as a ‘historical effort’. And there should be no doubt that this government deserves a reward to give hospitals more dollars than any previous government has done." But it's not just about money, as the representative on the payroll said. These include: on organisation and how we have to follow up that work. And I think the government has shown that in several areas in these years that have gone by. In the case of rehabilitation, it turns out that more money is also used for this – not that more beds are provided, but better quality is given to those who receive the offer. It is not the quantity that will apply, it is the quality that is at stake for those who receive the offer, so that they get the most out of work possible, get healthy and can be out in society in a good way. Never before has more money been invested in Norwegian health services than today — in the municipal health service, in the DPS, in psychiatry and in hospitals. And that effort will continue – for the benefit of the citizens and for the benefit of the patients. Then it is not possible to maximize the crisis in the Norwegian health care system in the way some people have done here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1249	The representative, Laila Bavøy, had the word twice before and got the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1252	Only a few words about the agreement concluded between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. One of the most important things for the Christian People's Party has been, as most people here know, that it should be designed a dignity guarantee. And it's not right, as the representative Nesvik says, that it's a little less obligatory than what's in our own proposals, but it's formulated to be, among other things, shall take account of these proposals, but additions may also be made. It could be that when you go through the quality regulation in the law, look at the right to apply, it might be even better than the one we've made up to now. That's something of the background. I also want to mention the Competence Lift 2015. There are very specific points that have been included in the agreement. Ethics competences shall be exercised by all municipalities over time. The investment grant shall be granted for the development of qualitative units. The last two points I want to mention – there are a lot more – are that all dents should have places by 2015 and that there should be day-to-day arrangements for all dents. These are very concrete measures, which I am pleased to have received.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1261	The representative of Inge Wohnung has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1264	A small comment to the representative Schjälaen's answer to my question. The answer didn't make me much wiser. As far as I have registered, there has not been a current issue, and no one has raised the issue of reducing the capacity of higher education in health and social matters. When you then agree to keep the status quo, it is a fairly precise promise that you should not increase the capacity, at least not worth mentioning. Then it's amazing, when you say it so clearly, that the Skjälaa then sort of puts a line over the wording and says that this should be considered years on end. Then, of course, what it says is completely worthless – if you want to re-assess every year. I thought an agreement was meant to bind the parties. What you're going to bind the parties to is the status quo, neither more nor less.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1269	The representative Jan Bøhler has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1272	If the employee had wanted to be part of this agreement, I think we would be able to negotiate until agreement on the point he focuses on in this discussion. It is stated in the introduction here at the point of competence: ‘The 2015 Competence Plan shall include a plan at all levels: unskilled, post-secondary, university level, professional qualification, specialisation, dimensioning, recruitment, research and professional development.’ So it's obvious that there's a certain tension between the two points in the agreement regarding the level of competence and that we want to work on dimensioning education in all areas. To the representative Nesvik and his comments to the Christian People's Party, I would say that when he accuses the Christian People's Party of taking down some points in his absolute position, I think it is just the difference in the working form of the Advance Party and other parties. You try to be political craftsmen at the same time, you realize that there are more demanding processes when you're going to be with the government and government parties, and you're going to be able to get things done, instead of just standing at your extremes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1284	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1287	This debate is becoming increasingly remarkable as more and more speakers talk about this so-called agreement contained in the vote. It becomes remarkable when you don't even want to have it in as a committee comment, because here you have to show that someone was inside and someone was outside. There must be the content you're occupied with in this room. It must not be that we behave like boys who sit on each of our walls and throw snowballs at each other. The most important thing is to be constructive, make sure that what we actually stand for is implemented, and make sure that the reality in this room is the same as outside this room. Then we also have to make sure that we read the agreement that we actually entered into. The Progress Party has always said that we agree very much with what it says. But we've said that it's going to be overplaying fundamentally, by taking out what would normally be a comitology, to which everyone would subscribe, and having a view where you're going to sign it. The representative, Boehler, has even talked about the fact that some people should be in the shame pit. This debate has fully shown who should do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1292	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and 2. [[See pages 1226 and 1238]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1308	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1315	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that one will ensure rehabilitation and training for everyone who needs it. This objective is the broad political impetus for, including in the Committee. The condition of the habilitation and rehabilitation field is not satisfactory today, and therefore the Government will have increased focus on the area. In the context of the 2008 State Budget, the Ministry of Health and Welfare provided a national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The strategy shall include, inter alia: contribute to a safer knowledge base and a more common view of the state of the field and what needs to be done in the future. These are challenges, among other things: as regards user participation, quality development, the role and framework conditions of the private rehabilitation and rehabilitation institutions and the priority of the overall use of resources in municipalities, specialist health services and other sectors in this field. Interaction may be the main challenge facing healthcare and is at the heart of rehabilitation and rehabilitation, where users often rely on services from many actors, levels and sectors. In assessing resource use and priorities in the field of habilitation and rehabilitation, it is important to take into account the overall use of resources. Both municipalities and health businesses are currently using large resources in this area under their own control. In addition, resources are provided for the purchase of services by private rehabilitation and training institutions. In the 2008 state budget, we have continued earmarking of funds to private rehabilitation and training institutions, and they are a good complement to the publicoffers to increase hospital funding – including rehabilitation and rehabilitation-improved municipal economy ‘Rehabilitation back’ scheme, including rehabilitation-specific grants for labour-oriented rehabilitation So within the state budget, there are a number of areas where a person mentions this in concrete proposals for funding. An overall objective is to ensure habilitation and rehabilitation for all those who need it. Population and disease developments indicate that the need for habilitation services will increase in the years to come. Among other things, there are several children with congenital or early acquired disabilities who will be in need of habilitation during the coming period. Children with disabilities shall have an adequate provision for habilitation, irrespective of where they live in the country. Services must have a capacity commensurate with the needs to be met and the capacity must be used in such a way that the services reach the users, in accordance with the objective of equivalence. Recent research points to the need for a stronger integration of emergency treatment and rehabilitation, in the form of specialised, coordinated rehabilitation in the specialist health service. For example, patients have suffered from strokes, a better effect of staying in specialised strokes. Municipalities have a key role to play in terms of rehabilitation and rehabilitation, for most users will focus on services in municipalities across the country. The purpose of the services means that the services must be provided as closely as possible where the person is living. This is also in line with the principle that healthcare should be organised in accordance with the LEON principle, i.e. the lowest effective level of care. Particular management attention is paid to the measures in the rehabilitation strategy and their integration into the overall development work carried out in the follow-up to the national health plan. The rehabilitation strategy is primarily targeted at the health and care sectors, but no rehabilitation strategy can succeed without cooperation with areas such as: employment, education and growing conditions of children and young people in general. The follow-up to the rehabilitation strategy shall take place in cooperation with the main actors in the field, not least with user organisations and professional organisations. Representatives of private service providers will also be invited to cooperate. It is particularly important that the experiences and views of users and relatives, including: disseminated through user organisations, emerges and can characterise the further development of this important service provision in the years to come. On behalf of the minority in the Health and Welfare Committee, I would like to raise the proposal that Document No. 8:56 is annexed to the Protocol for 2006-2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1363	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1366	It is strange how, in the light of different political positions, a totally different perception of reality as to what is really happening in the field of rehabilitation and habilitation. The government insists that there has been no cut-off in the rehabilitation offer, that all those entitled to rehabilitation are given it, and that therefore there is no need to further legislate on rights. The progression party is aware of the lack of rehabilitation services for the blind and partially sighted, for patients affected by epilepsy, for patients with severe head injuries, for stroke victims who are not offered treatment in strokes, for the reumatists and chroniclers, addicts and the elderly – to name a few. It's not just the quality that counts, it's also the quantity. There are too few places to meet what we need today. For those with a need for rehabilitation, a good quality offer without undue waiting time will be decisive for the level and quality of life of each individual. There was a reason why many people presented themselves in a peaceful demonstration at the Health Conference in May, where they wanted to show Sylvia Brustad that many were now in despair about cutting down in the rehabilitation offer. In many cases, older people and chroniclers are now told by their supervisor that they do not even need to apply. As a result, a large part of the unmet need for rehabilitation does not even become visible. We've been in contact with a lot of institutions that, because of bad agreements, are at risk of going down if there's no positive change. Instead of rambling up who this is about, I say: no one mentioned, no one forgotten, because as far as the private service providers in this area are concerned, I actually think that everyone has problems and is with free capacity. It might be interesting to hear from the Council of State the proportion of private institutions that now have long-term and predictable agreements to use the full capacity available to them. More than me took it as a serious signal when the Health and Care Committee received over 200,000 signatures, with a clear message that the rehabilitation field needs a strong reinforcement. The Party considers that a stepping-up plan is required to achieve the objective of rehabilitation for all those in need. The plan must be financed by earmarked funds until a new form of State funding is in place. It must also be an independent administrative body which draws up contracts and tender documents, and effective competition between private and public institutions requires health-care establishments to conclude contracts and compete in the same way as private and non-profit-making operators. The market does not function with the healthcare undertakings in the dual role of purchasing and performing the same services, and the contracts must be predictable and long-term. Today’s agreements, ranging from one to two years — and only in individual cases to four years — make it difficult to attract qualified and specialised staff in order to maintain good and stable working environments, and it also makes it difficult to make larger investments and maintenance. The Party considers that research needs to be stepped up in order to improve treatment methods and results, and that provision should also be made for private operators to be able to participate in research and needs-monitoring by providing valuable experience from different treatment modalities. Research must also be carried out in municipalities and implemented in practice. Whole treatment processes require a much better interaction between municipal health and care services, the local authority and the institutions. The Progress Party believes that current funding does not capture the real costs of different rehabilitation and treatment options, nor does it lead to different practices and varying follow-up in municipalities. Many will need follow-up over several years, and others will need lifelong rehabilitation and training or habilitation services. Curtailment of offers, which we unfortunately hear about, can lead to bad or no effect, and in the utmost consequence it can mean a worsening health condition for many. Supervisory reports from the Health Inspectorate show that the rehabilitation offer to children fails both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service. In the report on nationwide supervision of the paediatric habilitation service, in 2006, the Health Inspectorate revealed significant aberrations and weaknesses in four out of five municipalities. The Progress Party is concerned that in many municipalities it is problematic to offer relief in case of acute need and outside agreed times, and that parents have little choice between municipal and private relief. In the case of habilitation, the interface between municipal and specialist health services is unclear. For children and young people in need of rehabilitation or out-of-home rehabilitation, it will be important to have the opportunity to experience mastering, social inclusion and adapted activities. The geographical differences in treatment provision and the differences between municipalities show that the Government should consider a change in the organisation and financing of these services. The representatives of the government parties are pleased that the Government has put forward a strategy on rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the draft government budget for 2008. The Group of the European People's Party does not think this will be enough and will support the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1389	The fact that the Right has promoted the proposal for a stepping-up plan to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation both in the community health service and in the specialist healthcare service is that many patients experience a very poor offer. Habilitation and rehabilitation are about giving people suffering from illness, injury or disability a new opportunity to master everyday life and to take an active part in working and social life. A better offer will be an investment in better quality of life for many people. At the same time, it will reduce the need for care services. The right considers it necessary to adopt an obligatory escalation plan with earmarked means to ensure better capacity and quality of the offer. Specific funding needs to be provided for research and for actions that stimulate a comprehensive service provision for patients, and more long-term and predictable framework conditions need to be ensured by private actors. Right-wing priority rehabilitating in the 2007 budget and proposing to strengthen the area by 550 million. in addition to the Government’s proposals for 2008. With such a political consensus that rehabilitation must be given priority and become the next major field of activity, it is almost incomprehensible that it is now being pushed further down the priority list of the Government. We expected a binding escalation plan for the field, but we got a less committed strategy that neither meets the expectations that have been created nor solves the challenges. A lack of initiative by the Government and government parties has naturally produced strong reactions in the trade unions and patient organisations. As I was in the budget debate earlier, the health and care committee was handed over about a few weeks ago. 220,000 signatures from the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease requiring the development of a rehabilitation reform aimed at improving quality and capacity and better organisation, and not least strengthening patients’ right to rehabilitation. In the summer there was a great demonstration outside the Storting with demands from patients and trade unions that the government had to stop the crash of the rehabilitation offer. It has made an impression on me, it has made an impression on the majority of the committee, but it does not seem to have made a visible impression on either the government parties or the minister of health and care. A slightly greater humility in relation to how patients and the trade unions actually experience today's situation would have been preferable. The parties to the Government even voted against the proposal for an open hearing on the Right’s proposal in the Stortinget. The opposition parties therefore had to organise a separate hearing in which all ten central hearing bodies met and supported our proposal for a rapprochement plan. I have to admit that through my ten years at Stortinget, I have never experienced the husband of power arrogance in committee work. The fact that the government parties vote down a proposal for a hearing on a matter that the government itself says is so important is completely incomprehensible. It naturally also created reactions at the hearing bodies, especially because this is an area that they believe needs a proper lift and a cross-political lift. As many have experienced, there is unfortunately reason to fear that for ideological reasons the government is building up the important, valuable private rehabilitation offer, without a full offer in the public domain. This is going to affect the patients. Health enterprises have been instructed by the Council of State to restrict the use of private operators and to make primary use of the capacity of public institutions in both 2006 and 2007. To this extent, there have also been several speakers from the government parties here earlier today. As a result, many rehabilitation institutions across the country are now operating with reduced capacity, while many patients lack treatment. Private actors are not just a complement to the public, as Mr Asphjell said in his speech, but it is actually part of – and a significant part of – the offer of rehabilitation. Without the private offer of rehabilitation, it would have been enough to offer patients much worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1408	The proposal by the representative of the Right on a phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation is an important document. After the Right advanced the proposal, the Government of St.prp. No 1, the 2008 State Budget, presented ‘National Strategy for Habilitation and Rehabilitation 2008-2011’. The problem with this strategy is that, unlike the proposal from the Right, it does not contain proposals on earmarked funds. Yes, it does not contain any fresh funds at all, which weakens the possibility of habilitation and rehabilitation becoming a future bet area, as the Storting has repeatedly pointed out and wished. I would also like to mention that all opposition parties in their 2008 alternative budgets are proposing additional funds for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. In February this year, the Stortinget debated another proposal for a representative on rehabilitation, promoted by the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party proposal was about better lawmaking of rehabilitation. In the vote, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party proposed to ask the Government to consider creating its own rehabilitation law, which unfortunately was not adopted. A number of patient organisations have been waiting for a long time and excited about the government's commitment to rehabilitation, but the disappointment was great when the strategy came. A few days after the strategy was presented, LHL organised a large conference on rehabilitation and rehabilitation. It was very interesting to be present and get the first reactions from a number of organisations. All organisations expressed an alarming need for investment in habilitation and rehabilitation, both in specialist health services and in municipalities. It was pointed out by several that the right to rehabilitation is unclear in today's legislation. There was also a major lack of patient information. A deep concern for the reduction of rehabilitation services has also been highlighted in recent years. Several were critical to the lack of an economy and little concrete action in the recently submitted strategy. One of the major patient organisations gave the government’s strategy the character ‘not passed’. As I see it, it is a cross-section of mind that the measures in the plan are formulated with little commitment, and that after so long working with the government's strategy, there is still a lot to consider and review. Another cross of thought, as one of the founders of the above conference pointed out, is a rather uncritical transfer of the Leon principle to the rehabilitation field. Rehabilitation is too much the opposite: early, intensive, rapid and multidisciplinary intervention. Only later, after some time, will there be a lower level of treatment. This is at the heart of much of the criticism today, namely that rehabilitation is not given, is not intensive, or is so short-sighted and short-sighted that it has little effect. We have a lot of examples of that. Investing in habilitation and rehabilitation is a good social economy. A patient with a heart attack quickly gets work-oriented rehabilitation, so he can get back to work quickly. Providing quick and sufficient training to an old patient with a broken leg makes her feel self-held and elated after a while, and may prevent the need for assistance at home or, at worst, an institution space. Giving a stroke patient who has lost his ability to speak, immediate language training, can also help to make him needy in the future. Providing a chronically ill patient with regular and regular rehabilitation or rehabilitation may allow him/her to live in the workplace, or may be less dependent on relief measures in the future. And, not least, good rehabilitation and rehabilitation will provide better quality of life, less pain and greater self-esteem, which is important to all of us. Finally, I would like to say that the last word has probably not been said about rehabilitation and rehabilitation from this pulpit. The Christian People's Party fully supports the right-wing proposal, but also hopes that the Government will provide more concrete measures and a proper budget escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1427	Rehabilitation and rehabilitation are important stages in the treatment chain. When we look at the total picture over the rehabilitation field, we can say that never have so many received as qualitatively good rehabilitation as now. The fact that the number of days spent by private rehabilitation institutions is slightly lower in 2007 than it was in 2005 is due to the fact that the quality of rehabilitation sites has been enhanced by increased funds, which was often necessary and that no room has been found for maintaining total capacity. Growth has taken place primarily through the health establishments’ own businesses and in the community health service. The number of days of rehabilitation in hospitals has increased by as much as 10,000 days from 2005 to 2006. I now experience again that this is kind of black paint: because one has not bought so many places at the private rehabilitation institutions, it seems that this is a down-priority area from the Government. I think it's quite strange to hear. At the same time, we see that care and care in many municipalities is actually committed to the rehabilitation of the elderly. Having a stay in a rehabilitation centre in a nursing home for 14 days, maybe every 6-8 days. for residents, increased brittleness, increased quality of life and postponement of the place of permanent happiness. According to a factsheet from KS, the number of places reserved for rehabilitation/habilitation in 2004 was 3.8 pst., in 2005 4 pst. and in 2006 4.6 pst. of the lucky places in the hospitals of the municipalities. This is a positive development that I think is due to a look around that rehabilitation works. In fact, the municipalities give priority to this. The goal of rehabilitation and rehabilitation is to give people suffering from illness or disability a new opportunity to master their daily lives. The centre will continue to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation, where private, non-profit institutions have an important place. Increased funding is needed in this area, because we can never get enough rehabilitation so that more people can get better quality of life and better mastery. But no one has mentioned in the debate that there are actually 47 learning and mastering centres. 14 new learning and mastering centres are planned, some in the municipalities, but most related to health enterprises. The learning and mastering centres are precisely designed to help people live better with disease. To blackpaint this area I actually think a should stay too good for. You better get out and re-orient yourself and see what's in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1442	The government's proposal to the government budget, in the opinion of the Left, does not imply any commitment to rehabilitation as it has been promised. Right, there's a lot of talk about rehabilitation, but words are not the same as money! The left has invested in rehabilitation as one of the most priority areas in our alternative budget. We've seen 200 million. NOK just for rehabilitation purposes, and we've seen 240 million. kr to strengthened care for the elderly, who have absolutely relations with the matter we are discussing today. The left will give priority to enabling people in need of disability or rehabilitation to master their everyday lives and solve their challenges. That's what rehabilitation is really about. Rehabilitation exists for those who like Lir, not for anyone else. The left will have measures that strengthen the individual’s ability to live a good life on their own premises and that are, however, profitable for society because there are measures to promote self-help and professional activity. Strengthening rehabilitation is crucial in meeting future societal challenges related to an ageing population, labour shortages and the fact that more and more people survive serious injuries and diseases. The left will contribute to rehabilitation and rehabilitation for disabled people to achieve the best possible functional and mastering capacity, self-employment and participation in society. The left will have several habilitation measures targeting young people. The left believes that the addition of co-ordination with regard to rehabilitation could be a good idea. Better coordination of rehabilitation, especially of chroniclers who often fall between two chairs, would include such a coordinator. could contribute to this. Left thinks it needs to be stimulated to more research to find out what's the best rehabilitation. We don't know much about it today. The left is aware that voluntary organisations that run good professional rehabilitation services have to be given greater care in terms of operations and contractual periods, as others have been in the past. Of course, this will have positive consequences for patients, but not least for those responsible for the operation, adding and cooperating partners – i.e. the whole field of people involved in such a scheme. I said in my speech during the budgetary procedure before today that a health service that does not think about prevention, treatment and rehabilitation as a whole does not take over the human or social realities. But those who need rehabilitation are a very different group. It's a group that comes under the concept of 'the ones that need the most'. It's chroniclers, drug addicts and people with disabilities. These people we have a special responsibility to see. These people need rehabilitation more than most people in order to get a better everyday life and a better life. This is a proposal supported by the Left. We are some with the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1468	I would first like to congratulate the proposers. I have also noted Sonja Irene Sjøli's strong commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation. That's often the way to get things up, that individual parties take on areas of medicine, focus on it, and want to strengthen it. Similarly, it is now noted that the Left has become much more concerned with dental health than they were at least during the period I used to sit on the Social Committee. That's good. But the challenge is how to release resources to strengthen such fields. That's what the whole debate we had on the budget is about. It's thought-provoking, I think, that the only party outside the government parties that has found to be able to promote a proposal within the framework is the Christian People's Party. What you can also see is that the differences in the proposals are not dramatically linked to the government parties. This means that there is, in fact, a relatively large consensus in many areas about what you should bet on. I was concerned about the earlier, that what we see in a number of local hospitals, is that you are struggling with recruitment within a number of disciplines, especially the surgical discipline, and where it is likely that time has gone from organizing the kind of services that involve emergency functions in a very many specialities. Maybe centralization's a good thing there. But what you can see at the same time is that in that part of the population that is very growing, that is the older part of the population, there may be two services in particular that are very much in need. One is inpatient services and then also emergency medical services at local hospitals, but the other is just rehabilitation — after strokes, people in recovery for heart failure, pulmonary oedema, people returning to home or home-based care, or perhaps in a nursing home, and who need measures to be taken to stabilize them at a better level, so that they are able to take care of them in their home community. This means that instead of fear that local hospitals will lose their jobs, this is a new large area for which local hospitals would be able to accept them with open arms and to facilitate them. As I can see, Fredriksen's frustration that when a hospital like the Church's just set up that kind of service, it may be difficult because of the economy to keep it in operation. But the answer to that is: how can we release resources from other areas, where we strictly do not need those services to strengthen a field like this? Then I would like to welcome the Right Initiative here, but I expect that they can also show us how to retrieve resources from other areas to get it realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1479	I believe that this is an area where many have reason to be humble. This is an area how much has been undone, because it has been low priority over many years, as I see it. That's why commitment is good, because it's still too many who don't get the help and follow-up they need to get a better life and a better quality of life after they've been exposed to accidents or whatever it may be. But then I disagree, not surprisingly, with the description that especially the Right and the representative Sjøli here come with, that most of it should be dark and black, and about how bad the government's policy should be in this area. I hope to be trusted that the Government has a real commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation, that there is one area we want to bet more on. We have facilitated increased efforts and more targeted rehabilitation both in the municipalities, in the specialist health service and in cooperation with private institutions in the training and rehabilitation field. We're not on target, but we're on our way. I notice in particular the commitment of children and habilitation, and I share that commitment. Regional health enterprises are increasing the efforts in the area of rehabilitation in their own hospitals. According to the Norwegian Patient Register, the number of patients has increased significantly from 2005 to 2006. Total contributions in hospital and outpatient clinics were estimated at between DKK 1.5 billion and 2 billion in 2006. The funds for private institutions have increased by more than 14 pst. from 2005 to 2007. It can be difficult to produce as a cut in that area. It includes both funds from the earmarked allocation to regional health enterprises, funds from the enterprises' own basic appropriations and grants for the development of the rehabilitation institutions. The latter is a grant from the project allocation established by the Government in 2005 to correct the adverse effects of the Bondevik Government’s tender for the purchase of private rehabilitation services. In addition to the agreements concluded between regional health establishments and private rehabilitation institutions, many institutions have obtained agreements through the «Responsors Back» scheme. As you know, the aim of these schemes is to provide treatment and rehabilitation to the sick. Only in this scheme is there so far made an agreement with the private for 73 million. kr. Regional health establishments require quality in the provision of rehabilitation services. This also applies to private institutions. Several of the private have had challenges in meeting operational and professional content requirements. However, the number of institutions has remained stable. There were 38 of them in 2006 compared with 37 in 2005. Some institutions have fallen away, while others have arrived. The number of places is slightly reduced, but the decline is not as extensive as the public debate can give the impression. It makes little sense to compare the number of approved places in 2005 with the number of places in 2007, for example: because the rate of utilisation is very different. The coating in 2005 varied between 60 and 100 pst. of the approved places, while the 2007 figure indicates the number of places actually to be used by agreement between the institutions and regional health establishments. In addition, as is known, the sites within the ‘Reflectors’ scheme come back. Nor is there any doubt that a strengthened municipal economy has led to increased efforts in the area of rehabilitation in the municipalities. The increase in the number of physiotherapy years is an example of this. With the budget likely to be adopted by the Stortinge today, we are laying the foundation for further strengthening the rehabilitation area. Earmarked funds are being passed on, and we need to follow up decisions on specialist health services and municipal services through the channels we have for this. I think it is important to raise the status of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. It's going to be a priority field in all parts of our healthcare. It also means that many more leaders have to take this much more seriously than they have done up to now. The government has therefore set up very broad cooperation between different departments, user organisations and the professional community. I am also listening to the recordings that have been made in this debate and otherwise from the Storting, on how we should proceed in this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1503	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1506	We have heard some powerful blows in the loose air here in connection with the rehabilitation debate. When some representatives say that the government parties make use of power arrogance by voting proposals in the committee, I would like to remind you that the government parties are minority members of the health and care committee. So here, for the bourgeois parties, if they are present, it is entirely possible to vote in favour of the proposals and have them adopted as they wish. As far as consultation was concerned, we had a consultation related to the 2007 budget. We had a consultation on rehabilitation in the context of care plan 2015, and we also had a consultation on the 2008 budget in the context of the 2008-2011 escalation plan. So all the organisations associated with the rehabilitation field have had a good opportunity to be in dialogue with us both in the committee and in the Stortinget, and they have made clear what they mean both verbally and in writing. I'm very pleased about that, and it's good and constructive input that it's important to bring with it in the further work ahead. I believe that a national strategy that will extend over four years will give status to a field that has been missing this. This will bring applicants to the field and increase the quality of the offers already established and those to be established. It's about the public offers, and it's about the private offers. Regional health establishments provide rehabilitation services, both outpatient and outpatient, day-to-day in the clinical departments and in their own rehabilitation departments, as well as in specialist hospitals for rehabilitation. Based on registered DRG figures in 2006, the cost of hospital rehabilitation is estimated at approximately DKK 1.5 billion. In addition, rehabilitation comes at outpatient clinics, which is estimated at about NOK 0.5 billion. It shows that many kroner are used in the rehabilitation field also in health businesses. In addition, it is used for the purchase of rehabilitation at private rehabilitation and training institutions in 2007 at NOK 1.14 billion. It is also increasing in 2008. I want to repeat: it's not just the quantity, it's also the quality of the offer that's important. All user organisations, across disciplines, also say that it is important to bet on quality and to raise the status within the field. Only in this way can we achieve new goals, better treatment provision and greater support in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1519	When the Council of State says – and certainly means – that Right and I paint the situation within the rehabilitation area, it is wrong. What the right is doing is just to measure the reality experienced by the professional community, patients and patient organisations, and that applies to both rehabilitation, rehabilitation and drug care. It's a reality where both through signing campaigns, through demonstrations and through contacts both to the Government and to the Committee, they are very strongly targeting what they experience as a lack of commitment by the Government in terms of rehabilitation. They feel that they have been promised very much, but that nothing else came for 2008. In reality, there is no commitment to habilitation and rehabilitation in the 2008 budget. When the Council of State, and indeed the representative Asphjell, almost accuses the Right of Black Painting, it is actually the patients, the professional environments and the patient organisations they are attacking, and it must be a cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1526	There is something that is difficult with the rehabilitation field and documentation of numbers, evidence of whether you have an increase or a reduction in the number of rehabilitated patients, the number of patients who are being offered. Some organisations tell us over and over again that there is a decline both for their institutions and in the supply of patients they organize. Governments have responded many times in Stortinget and can also prove that there has been an increase here. Then I have a comment that I do not know will be correct, but at least I said a little about this in my first post during the discussion of the budget. The 2006 report of the Social and Health Directorate on action-driven funding states: ‘In the light of a strong increase in day-to-day treatment for rehabilitation, we have asked the Billing Committee to make an assessment’. And then they say, ‘Unfortunately, we see that many hospitals and institutions have failed to meet the requirements of the legislation for reimbursement payments’. Here we go, let's go, let's go, let's ‘Services that should have been financed through outpatient tariffs, which are lower than the ISF refund, have been erroneously entered into the payment basis as a day-to-day treatment’. I then read day care for rehabilitation, because that's what it says in that section. It's all about approx. Eighty-eight million. kr in error correction in 2006. My question to the Council of State is: can there be anything here that makes us have so different numbers to operate with? Is it possible for the department to go into it a little bit more and see? As a politician in Stortinget, I find it quite difficult to hear from organizations over and over again that there is a decline here, and over and over again listen to the Government, which says there is a rise. I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1550	We live in a time when memory is dangerous cards. It may appear that this is also the case in the Health and Welfare Committee. Last year, a unanimous committee in the budget setting wrote that ‘rehabilitation must become the next major field of action’ in Norwegian health policy. When you say that, I assume you mean something by that, and at least I assume that you don't think the situation is satisfactory, because otherwise it doesn't make sense to talk about the next big bet area. In today's debate, it may seem that the rapporteur in particular has made it a heart issue to present it as if the situation is almost perfect in this area, and that there is really no need to step up efforts at all. Speakers of government parties go very far towards rejecting any indication of lack of capacity in this area by saying that it is black paint. It is surprising that reality can change so quickly in one calendar year, because one cannot, of course, seriously believe that from our last year's budgetary position until today's debate, there has been a dramatic change for the better in the area of rehabilitation. It's simply not for believers. It is forced to see in your eyes that if you pursue a policy of stepping down the use of the established private training and rehabilitation institutions for ideological reasons, that difference is not covered by a similar increase within the public sector, simply because the price of the same effort in the public sector is usually three or four times higher. Then the calculation becomes relatively simple in terms of the total capacity, what you get back for the money. The boring thing is that this ideological campaign is aged at the expense of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1557	It may sound like the Right, and the Special Representative for Wage, believes that a statement is more true if it is repeated very many times. Now I've heard, not just in the debate today, but in an unimaginable number of other debates and in public space, that the Right has claimed that we have an ideological campaign against private training institutions. The answer to that is a clear no! We use private training institutions in large monn, and we should do that, because they have very good rehabilitation services to set up with. In particular, for the scheme «Repatriation back», where there are additional funds for rehabilitation, contracts with 18 institutions signed this year amounting to 73 million. kr. I'm taking it very seriously that we're not in the goal of rehabilitation. I'm taking it very seriously that there's a lot of messed up. Therefore, the plan now proposed by the Government, which is in the budget, is a start on a road further, where the aim is to increase the level of funding. It is not possible to talk about rehabilitation and not bring with it the greatest investment in hospitals for the next year. It is also not possible to talk about rehabilitation without including a further huge increase in the municipal economy. That's also the case, and I understand that the right does not like to hear it, that there has been an increase of 14 pst. from we took over in 2005 to 2007. The earmarked grants to regional health establishments have also increased by 3.8 pst. from 2006 to 2007. In addition, we have a separate appropriation for the RHFs that we had to have in order to save some institutions that were out to drive when we took over. But more important than that is to look forward. I hope perhaps the commitment that is also in this hall in this field, and which I take seriously, can be used to ensure that more actually get an offer of rehabilitation in the future. Most of the rehabilitation today takes place in our hospitals. There has been a sharp increase. Much will have to be done in the municipalities in the future where people live. Then we're going to use the private training institutions, those of good quality, even in the future. I'm assuming that no one thinks we're going to have arrangements that make people in rehabilitation for maybe 14 days to three weeks and eat good food and have it socially good, but are just as bad when they get out. The point must be, in addition to that, that they can also be rehabilitated and get help to get back to a life with a better quality of life, with lasting effect, and that it's not like many people have experienced after being at rehabilitation institutions, that they haven't really gotten any better after being there for weeks. We must have good quality services – both private and public!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1574	There's no special exercise for the Right to read the Soria Moria statement. I guess others have. There is also no special exercise for the Right to read the Council’s letter of instruction to regional health companies. The Soria Moria Declaration states that it is the government's conscious policy to reduce the use of private providers in the health sector. The Council’s letter of instruction also required health companies to do the same. This is a general, general policy, and I actually thought it was ideologically justified. It's hard to see any other kind of reason. The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen, as far as I know, is elected for one of the government parties, asked in a debate here in the Chamber earlier this year the Government to put off the ideological spectacles of politics precisely against the private rehabilitation and training institutions, which he, in his case, knew from his own home country. There has been a decrease in the number of days of treatment within these institutions of 17 p.m. I guess that's documented, and that means it's 17 pst. fewer patients who have received that type of offer. It's probably not because the need has become 17 pst. less, or that the number of people waiting for that type of treatment has been lower than it was. It is simply due to a lack of capacity. Then I think it is a bit surprising to argue with beaks and claws against such a simple proposal as what we have made and which is being dealt with, asking the Government to draw up an escalating plan for habilitation and rehabilitation. No, the government parties say, we don't want a escalation plan, it's enough with the strategy put into the budget, which really means nothing but compensation for wage and price growth. That is, it does not represent any growth or increased efforts in the area of rehabilitation at all. Then I must be allowed to repeat the question: Why did you agree to enter the committee setting last year that rehabilitation must be the next major field of action in Norwegian health policy? How long are we going to wait for you to be willing to participate in realising that bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1585	I would say that we, who belong to the government parties, know the content of the Soria Moria statement a little bit better than the pay now tries to give the impression. In the case of private commercial hospitals, the signal has been that we should primarily use the capacity of public hospitals. As a result, the activity of public hospitals has increased slightly more than that of private commercial hospitals. We have had debates on the private ideal hospitals, such as today. Haraldsplatz or Lovisenberg, which this government believes are also very important, and which is part of our health care that we will call about. As far as the rehabilitation field is concerned, this government has never said that we do not want to use private rehabilitation institutions. They do a great job in the rehabilitation field, and we will help them to do so in the future. As far as I can see, when the representative's pay here goes down with figures, it's not taken into account the increase in the use of private institutions, for example. in the case of the ‘Rasers back’ scheme. Nor has the increase in rehabilitation sites now taking place both in hospitals and in municipalities. I'm concerned that we're getting an arrangement for the future that makes us manage to increase even more both in hospitals and in municipalities, as well as in the private rehabilitation institutions that are of good quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1598	Sometimes I ask myself the question, as I also did in the previous case: why is the reality in this room so different from what it is actually outside this stone building? Why is it that there are reports that queues are formidable in the area of rehabilitation and that many do not receive the service? Yes, even LHL's rehabilitation facility at Røros runs almost half the machine. They have also been informed by Health Middle Norway that heart patients will no longer be four weeks in rehabilitation, but three weeks in rehabilitation – to save money. I'm going to be allowed to draw attention to a situation described by the NRK today. The former Coast Hospital in Stavern, which is now part of the Rikshospitalet, has been told to cut next year's budget by approx. Thirty-five million. kr. The special hospital has an annual turnover of about 200 million. kr with the departments in Stavern, at Nordagutu in Telemark and at former Kongsgård hospital in Kristiansand. A cut of over 35 million. kr will create the clean earthquake within the rehabilitation field, designated as a bet area at national level. Then I ask myself the question: are we betting on rehabilitation? Why, then, are we afraid to put in place a stepping-up plan, when, among other things, you know. in the Soria Moria Declaration, ‘rehabilitation to all those who need it’? If you really meant what's in that story, so in a few years' time you could say that you've actually fulfilled parts of this, that it's not just a fairy tale, but that reality comes out of it, you should at least be able to support the proposal for a stepping up plan within a field that you say you're going to bet on. All the parties in this room have said and written that rehabilitation should be the next major bet area in Norway. Yes, we have even received 225,000 signatures, where you just require this. Rehabilitation is required. And then it's strange that what's coming out of today's debate is the fear of being able to vote for a proposal that you should actually be in favour of, if you look at your own government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1616	I just want to allow myself a little comment on that by holding the thread from one debate to the next. The Representative for Wage strongly warned against a ‘short cut’ in his intervention during the budget debate — a short cut that is about competing to spend as much money as possible, as much resources as possible, instead of being concerned about how we achieve the goals, what brings measurable results to users. When the Council of State and also the case rapporteur here prove that a process has now been initiated throughout the healthcare system and that we need to bring the entire public health system – the hospitals, the community health services, etc. and the institutions – and voluntary private institutions with which we cooperate – in raising the level of rehabilitation, when telling about the increase in the use of resources in hospitals, when telling about the increase in the number of learning and mastering centres around health care establishments, as the representative of the Kschillaa did, when telling about an increase of 4.8 pst. of health care centres used for rehabilitation, when telling about a strengthened community economy and how it will result in an increase in rehabilitation, hopefully on a broad front at a later stage, when telling about how the money of the «Responsors Back» is used to enter into new contracts and to get more into rehabilitation schemes, we need to be able to see that raising a rehabilitation allowance is such a broad effort that the health care system as the whole is to be involved, that it is not just about earmarking one or the other. And then I believe that one important point is what we were about in the previous debate, to link the thread back to it, namely the funding system. There are hazard signals in what is referred to in the case of Stavern. I have heard it myself when it comes to financing rehabilitation at Aker University Hospital, where one adds up to a continuous treatment course from intervention to getting to specialised rehabilitation at the hospital, and I have heard similar stories from several parts of Health Norway: Rehabilitation is thought to be too poorly funded within the DRG system. We have to look at that in order to get in place, and to get to the promise that the entire committee is asking for. But I would warn against making it just a competition for some amounts of funding that, after all, is less in this context. It is about how we can increase efforts for rehabilitation in the overall healthcare system in Norway — and then we talk about amounts other than less earmarked items.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1626	I thought, on the basis of Nesvik's posts, I could make some comments. Firstly, as far as LHL's excellent offer at Røros is concerned, it is now that, I am aware, it is recently signed an agreement between LHL, the Cancer Association and Health Mid-Norway to make better use of that institution, so that it will be filled up in a very short time. When it comes to the Coast Hospital, there's something I've become familiar with today. In these days, there are many proposals pending in the air that have not been dealt with politically, or in any other way dealt with in governments, either here or there. So it is important to stress that that proposal, like some other proposals that are being presented by day, is not, of course, proposals that have been adopted. Finally, I just want to make it clear that the investment grant that I expect the Storting to join, and that will be used to get to more places, among other things. in the case of nursing homes, nursing homes, etc., it is also intended to be used for short-term places in nursing homes, for which there is a great need. Some of them will obviously need to be used just for rehabilitation. So it'll also be an additional contribution to make this situation better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1637	No salary has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1640	I need a brief comment to the representative, Mr Bøhler, because he seemed to think that we are debating a completely different proposal than what we are debating. We are not debating a proposal to increase budget lines somewhere; we are debating a proposal to ask the Government to draw up a recovery plan. It is even made clear in the proposal that there is a particular need to stimulate full-service services in interaction between the first-line service and the specialist healthcare service, i.e. precisely in line with what the representative of Bohemia himself described as necessary and desirable. Why, then, do you vote against it? Why does it not want the Government to draw up a stepping-up plan for the rehabilitation field? It appears to me as a mystery after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1647	I have to point out, to what the representative on the pay side said, that I think a lot of the speeches here today, in this debate, have been about everyone's being for a raise for rehabilitation, but you point it and the situation at it and the point where you want more money, more resources into it. I believe that the whole angle of incidence that your salary now specified is the right one. I believe it is at the beginning of the escalation that the government strategy related to the state budget involves, and that is where we have to work. We are not voting in favour of the proposal for a separate escalation plan now, because the government has already presented such a plan together with the state budget that we are commenting on in the vote and from which we will work. We're starting from the work the government has done until now, and we're going to go on with it. I hope we can then move in the same direction, as the Committee and the Stortinge have wanted in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1656	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1239]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1672	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1679	Int. S. No 51 for 2007-2008, representatives of the Progress Party want to set response time requirements for the ambulance service throughout the country. The case was probably updated after a few unfortunate events in Svelvik, Westfold. This matter was discussed in detail in St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, on emergency preparedness, where the conclusion was that setting such a requirement is not easy in our vast and geographically different countries. At the same time, it is recognised that the response time varies considerably from place to place, and the Committee, as it was at the time, is concerned with compliance with the indicative response times proposed at the time. In emergency mode, 90 pst. the population is reached within 12 minutes in cities and agglomerations and 25 minutes in pig-grown areas. The corresponding emergency mission is 30 minutes and 40 minutes. There St.meld. No 43 was treated, it was specifically requested that this be followed up. The Committee is committed to doing so, but that this should be seen in a broader context, and therefore asks the Government to review the contents and recruitment of the ambulance service. A majority, the Red-Green, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, believe that the response time should be part of the investigation to be made. The Christian People's Party wants to strengthen this and will have a real assessment of demands for response time, while a majority, the Red-Green, Right and Left, believe that setting national standards would not be appropriate. They will have a close follow-up to the service and the requirements of the regulation must be followed up. The proponents from the Group of the European People's Party wish to introduce response time requirements, and they are making proposals on this which I think they will address. The second part of this case concerns the air ambulance and its ability to land at our hospitals. Air ambulances are an important part of the ambulance service, and are particularly important where distances are large. It is also an important contribution to short response times and a quick way to transfer patients, both in pig-grown strokes and when accidents require a different type of treatment from the nearest hospital can provide. However, it turns out that the challenge may be landing sites at individual hospitals. Civil ambulances may land largely on hospital ceilings, but difficulties may arise where the rescue helicopter, which is part of the 330 quadrant, is put into service. We also hear about conflicts for the local environment, and that patients must be transported to the nearest airport and thus moved several times, which can create delays and unnecessary plagues. A unanimous committee is concerned that one should take a closer look at this and identify what it is like around the country, and it therefore asks the Government to ensure good landing opportunities at the country's hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1700	Initially, I will be allowed to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. This is a proposal that should not be set against the setting that exists, because we also support the setting. There are two different suggestions. Then it's done. Ambulance services are in many ways the very lifeblood of the security guard. Norway is a very far-reaching country. We have great distances. This also means that there are large distances between hospitals, although sometimes when we debate, we should think that hospitals are on every nose in Norway. Actually, they don't. It is important that ambulances related to cars also have to be seen in the context of air ambulances and the use of helicopters and aeroplanes in transport operations or in emergency calls. However, reports show that there are some large differences in response time between districts. The Court of Auditors adds in its Document No. 3:9 for 2005-2006, inter alia: whereas ‘there is still a potential to reduce response time in some districts’. We should notice that, because when the Riksrevision makes these kind of comments, they don't make it based on whether there are very small changes and small differences, but actually because there's something you should follow up. The Party for Progress shall have in its Document No. 8:81 for 2006-2007 tried to focus on the importance of reducing the response time, so that the individual patient is assured, and not only is assured, but also, when the accident is out or the need is there, feels sure that within a reasonably short time the assistance to be provided and that the ambulance arrives at the door or at the accident site. In connection with the emergency message, St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, one writes a little about response times, but it is indicative, i.e. that individual health establishments do not have to comply with this because it has been set up as an indicative standard. For this reason, the Progress Party wants proper time to be set up. We ask the Government to set a response time requirement for the ambulance service throughout the country. Once again, we're going to use the whole country. There should be no difference between where you live if you receive healthcare when you need it. In this respect, the ambulance service is becoming extremely important. That's why I'm actually looking forward to the work the ministry is going to do in this review. The party of progress wants to move a little faster than the government does. The Council of State probably understands that we're a little impatient in this field. So I hope you get ahead of work, for the benefit of the patients. You have to be able to feel the security that is needed when disease and injury occur. What I think is very pleasing in this setting is that a unanimous committee now agrees to look at the landing site situation for helicopters. It's almost a shame that we have relatively large hospitals in this country that are unable to accept the air ambulance when it's on mission, without having to move the patient over from helicopter to ambulance, then to be driven to an emergency room. Within this service, there is something that says that time is very important. Time saves lives. Then we have to have this in place. I can mention large hospitals like Haukeland University Hospital and the Hospital Østfold in Fredrikstad. In the richest countries in the world, it must be possible to manage it so that at least the air ambulance can access the hospitals and ensure that patients get where they need to go as quickly as possible. It's enough to imagine a heart patient, a stroke patient: the faster you get to treatment, the more likely you are to recover and get better. I look forward to the work the department will do. We would very much like to be kept up-to-date on how to move forward here. In this country, we can afford to ensure faster response times, regardless of the address of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1721	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1724	The rapporteur has well explained the matter and the position of the majority, so I will not spend a long time on this matter. The right agrees with the proposers that this is very important for the individual to experience security of life and health, especially because life is often a matter of minutes to be saved. In the past, there have also been some major differences in staffing, competence and preparedness in the emergency services. This case was dealt with at Stortinget in 2001, such as, among other things. The committee leader was inside. I had the pleasure of being the rapporteur on that matter. It was the Stoltenberg I government that presented that matter. I believe that Stortinget also made a significant effort to improve the situation regarding emergency preparedness. In 2005, the Cooperative Government adopted a new regulation on requirements for emergency medical services outside hospitals, which includes the medical watch regime. It also includes the emergency medical service and the ambulance service. The regulation included: put forward concrete requirements for better coordination, for increased competence and for action to increase the accessibility of calls. The aim was to increase the quality and accessibility of services. As a consequence of the regulation, the requirements are now that the ambulances are to be two-man-operated, that specific competence requirements are to be imposed on the personnel, that the ambulance should, as a general rule, be staffed by an bystander and that the ambulance staff should be on duty in close proximity to the ambulance. In addition, regional health establishments and local authorities shall ensure the necessary cooperation in the emergency medical chain and the coordination of services with other emergency situations and authorities. When the Right cannot support the proposal, it is not because we disagree that a short response time is important. However, in view of large geographical differences and the functioning of services both locally and regionally, we do not believe that it would be appropriate to set national response time standards. However, the right is concerned that the requirements of the regulation need to be met, that there is a close follow-up to the services, and that they develop and function in line with the intention of the regulations. Otherwise, both comments and suggestions in asking the Government support the assessment of how to secure good landing opportunities throughout the country. We clearly see that there is a need to strengthen that particular service.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1737	All citizens must receive an equivalent provision of healthcare. Quality, safety, accessibility and care shall be at the core of healthcare. Everyone has to have the same access, no matter where you live. The low response time for the ambulance service is therefore very important for the individual’s experience of safety in life and health. Norway has services where the air ambulance is part of emergency peaks and emergency tasks, which help to improve response times where distances are high. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Committee asks the Government to review the contents and recruitment of the ambulance service. At the same time, we would stress that the response time should be a natural part of such an investigation. It has previously been pointed out by a majority of the Committee that there is a need for a closer examination of the impact of the implementation of response times. I'm referencing here to Innst. S. No 300 for 2000-2001. In my opinion, therefore, it must be a real assessment of the setting of requirements for the response time for the ambulance service in the forthcoming investigation, not least in the light of developments in recent years and some complaints received. I have with some wonder recorded that the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left share that the response time may be part of the investigation, while at the same time stating that it would not be appropriate to set national standards for response time. A fresh example from my own county is the Municipality of Samnanger, which has increased response time, from 18 to 30 minutes, after a conversion of the ambulance service. In this municipality, municipal councillors and politicians have been very clear about the need to maintain the ambulance service, while Health West, on its side, has made a decision on the opposite. The municipality is overrun, they refer to a lack of cooperation and interaction. Nor did a complaint to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. But they got a meeting with one of the State Secretarys, and they were very happy about that. The Council of State answers to my written question about the municipality of Samnanger have largely the same reasons that Health Vest has had – i.e. a one-sided opinion on this by the health company. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the response time is an essential part of the quality of the ambulance service. Health Bergen has not weighted response time as part of the quality of the municipality in response to Samnanger municipality. They indicate that there is no absolute demand for response time. Conversation is also encouraged by Health Bergen to establish what is called a First Responder scheme to compensate for the response time increase. But in this case you will not be able to cover the expenses for this, as I understand it. This was just one example, there are several. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State in its forthcoming investigation to address the issue of response time, investigate its consequences and seriously assess whether response time should be set for the ambulance service. Finally, we also support what is involved in air ambulances and opportunities for landing sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1756	As several speakers have already pointed out, the ambulance service has a very important role to play in the emergency medical treatment chain. The rapid arrival of qualified personnel to the acutely ill or injured person is often essential for saving lives, and very important for the further treatment and for the development of the disease. The regulation on requirements for emergency medical services outside the hospital requires ambulances to be two-man-operated and requires qualifications and watchkeeping arrangements. As the representatives point out, previous investigations and reports have discussed whether to set requirements for the Ambulance Service response time. This became particularly clear in St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000, on emergency medical preparedness. In that message it was recommended that specific response times should be an indication of the planning of the service offer. According to the draft report of the National Audit Office by letter of 31 March 2006, an administrative audit has been carried out, inter alia: Ambulance service, based on 2004 data. The report points to some differences in response time between health regions. This is mainly explained by differences in geography and housing. The report suggests that the average response time for emergency printing is 12 minutes, although there are variations in and across the regions. It is said that the response time can be even better. Regional health establishments have responsibility for the ambulance service, while as is known, individual health establishments responsible for day-to-day operations are either part of their own activities or of the purchase of services from private operators. The professional quality requirements are the same regardless of who is the operator. Regional health enterprises are working to improve this service. This is in accordance with the regulation on emergency medical services outside hospital. For example, both Health Middle Norway RHF and Health Nord RHF have carried out a comprehensive monitoring and analysis of their services in order to improve quality, response time and preparedness. Several measures have been or will be taken, such as: competence-building measures, increased use of bystanders, changes in the location of ambulances and improved coordination and use of ambulances where possible. Competence requirements of the Regulation shall be met by 2010 and health care establishments are working in a manner that is maritimely focused on this. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health is also working on overseeing measures to improve the quality of the service. Among other things, continuing training, distribution of responsibilities at the point of damage and the use of volunteers are used to ensure the best possible service for users. I have commissioned the Social and Health Directorate to provide data to be used as a basis for further development and follow-up of the ambulance service in Norway. This is in line with the Riksrevision report. I initially agree with the representatives that set response time requirements could improve the availability of the service to users. But even shorter response times also mean that we need more ambulances and probably more ambulances. The creation of more ambulances and ambulances to ensure better availability and shorter response times could compromise the quality of the service, especially in small places. Ambulance staff acquire their formal competence through basic training and develop their skills through experience and training. With more ambulances and ambulance stations, there could be fewer ambulance missions per year. Unit, and staff will then have less opportunity to gain the necessary experience to save lives when they really do. Number of jobs per job. ambulances vary. It is largely related to geography, demography and housing patterns. In Health North, there are examples of ambulances that cover large geographical areas with poor roads, but that have only a few calls in a week. Since employees work in shifts, calls will mean that each employee has less experience in the service. In these areas, the air ambulance service, where a medical helicopter can move out to the patient, is an important resource. The challenge for car ambulance services in districts is to find the balance between availability and quality of service provision. Setting response time, as proposed, could also adversely affect the professional content. In particular, there will be areas of scattered population, where shorter response times will require more ambulances, fewer missions per year. ambulance and thus a risk that the ambulance staff will not receive sufficient training to perform the critical tasks properly. Finally, the question of landing sites: I have noticed what the committee says about it. There is a work in progress now linked to the acquisition of several rescue helicopters. The work is managed by the Ministry of Justice. There is also a survey of landing conditions in progress. There will be very important information in relation to following up the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1782	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1785	I come from a state that is relatively small geographically, namely Vestfold, but it is large in many other ways, and it has recently undergone quite major structural changes on the hospital side. When the county owned the hospitals, several emergency wards were laid down in the Vestfold district. We were promised that this would be compensated for by a better accommodation service – i.e. that the ambulance service would be strengthened. And it did. It lasted for a decade. But the county council, and later the state, didn't save enough money to shut down the emergency room, so they reduced the ambulance emergency room. The same thing unfortunately seems to happen now. This means, in reality, reducing the availability of emergency services first, and then taking care of the provision of services afterwards. This again means that there is a lower supply for large sections of the population. The rapporteur said in his statement that this proposal for a representative was initiated after some unfortunate incidents in Svelvik. In one of these episodes, a family father died. It's more than an unfortunate episode. In Svelvik they had their own ambulance from the 1940s until 2001. Now it takes up to 35 minutes before the ambulance is with a father with a heart attack or a mother with a stroke. It's easy to hide behind statistics, because numbers are kind of so cold. But what we're really talking about is not numbers. We're talking about a mother, a father, a sister, a brother, grandparents in need of life. There are several specific cases, such as: in Svelvik, since 2001. In the Svelvik post on 19 January this year we could read: ‘Jens Christiansen has been a member of the local relief force for more than 20 years, driving the ambulance from 1988 to 2001. He believes the service has never been worse than today." It's a pretty tough statement from someone who probably knows what he's talking about. On behalf of the Progress Party, I have taken up this situation with the Council of State, and the Council of State – a little blatantly said – replied that it is not really so dangerous, because if you get sick as long as the ferry goes, before half past eleven in the evening, then the time of the call is considerably shorter than at night, because then the ferry doesn't go, and then it takes twice as long. The objective is budgetary balance, and I allow myself to ask: how are we really calculating this budget balance? How do we calculate the value of a 35-year-old working family father who dies of cardiac arrest because he got his emergency offer too late? To save a few dollars, society as a whole loses, not to talk about the loss of those who are directly affected. That is what this matter is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1809	It is high time to put in place concrete actions related to how to achieve even higher quality in the ambulance service, better recruitment of qualified personnel and as short a response time as possible. It's here referred to an episode in Svelvik, and with today's system, this kind of episode could unfortunately happen all the time. That is why we in the Progress Party are impatient. Already during the treatment of St.meld. No 43 for 1999-2000 we, together with SV, promoted the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to provide an economic and timetable for making available the Committee’s response time proposals.’ It may then be appropriate to refer both to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions and to the National Audit Office's study of emergency medical preparedness in the specialist health service, which points to a number of weaknesses and inequalities between health regions, where there are wide variations in response time. The National Audit Service believes that the effectiveness of the rest of the hospital depends on how the emergency department functions as a whole. Furthermore, the Riksrevision states that it is doubtful whether the Department has followed up the Storting's emphasis on the importance of making professional demands on the staff and that the Department must clarify how proper supervision of patients is ensured. One of our biggest challenges with the composition of the population in Norway — we know that we have a very widespread settlement — is to be able to give our own people the greatest possible security on the day of the accident. That is why it is tragic with my eyes that the Stortinget does not already go in today and adopt this proposal. This is a proposal that will provide security for the population, but once again we experience that there are external things, like our own economy, that count more than health to our own people. But I conclude: How in the name of heaven can we afford not to?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1824	I have been working at a local hospital for over eleven years, as a local hospital director, and I have a lot of experience with ambulances. What is the starting point for this kind of debate is that we have a pig-grown country. We have long distances, and we have to conclude that we need to have decentralised hospital services – that's point 1. When it comes to real life out in the districts, I have to say that it's pretty much like the description that the Council of State gave. What is the fact when it comes to ambulance stations? Well, it's that they're pretty small, some are very small, they're maybe too small. It's too bad education, it's too little training, as they say, and the competence becomes like that. So it's a dilemma. But we don't solve this dilemma with response time – we don't. However, it is clear that ambulance and emergency services and decentralised hospital services are very important for people to feel safe, so we have to do everything we can to get it done. We have to be able to make systems that are adapted to our country, and we have systems today. Although that's not good enough, we have to be able to compete with the system that we have, and not create a worse system. We need to make every effort to make better systems, and we need to be able to afford safe and qualitative solutions in this rich country of ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1831	I understand from the representatives of the Progress Party that they have gone into frontal attacks on the balance sheet. The balance sheet is not an objective in itself in the hospital sector, but it is an instrument for ensuring that health businesses use the appropriations that the Storting makes available at all times. I actually thought that all the parties in Stortinget thought it was important, not least for us to be able to give proper priority and give priority to the patients who need it the most. I do not feel familiar with the description of a letter that should have left me, about what we are now discussing. I'm taking this most seriously. I'm usually concerned with ensuring the best possible health care for the people in the whole country, and that's also why I'm in the process of appointing a working group to review the prehospital services with emphasis on AMK centres, car and boat ambulance services. The Group shall propose amendments in the areas it considers appropriate. It shall include, inter alia: assess conditions affecting the working environment and the working conditions of the service and propose measures to contribute to the recruitment and stable labour force of the ambulance service. This group shall also evaluate response times and assess the impact of setting response time requirements, where appropriate. This working group shall report during 2008. Otherwise, in relation to the air ambulance service, I would like to say that a recent review of both the helicopter and flight services has been carried out as a basis for tendering and operator services, and this service is among others. strengthened by new helicopters next year. It is also introduced by the presence of rescue helicopters, which constitute an important air ambulance resource, in particular in North Norway. Both at the bases of the Sola, in Bannak and Bodø, a 15-minute response time has now been introduced, Ørland and Rygge will have it in 2008, and a new rescue helicopter base is also being established in Florø in 2009. So here it's very good going on, and the purpose of it is said that all people throughout the country should be secured quick help when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1840	Just very briefly about the government's lack of recognition of a letter that she has written to the Progress Party and me. The Svelvik post office on February 8th this year has at least perceived the letter as something like me. It says: ‘Good enough emergency preparedness in Svelvik, the Council of State believes: Ambulance: Take the ferry!’. Last ferry leaves at 2.30 p.m. Ten-thirty-five. That means that if you're going to have a reasonable chance of a quick call-out, that's before the time you have to get an acute disease case, and that doesn't seem to be good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1850	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5, 6 and 7 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 1239]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1890	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1901	I will first allow myself to put a never-ending question mark on the type of work chosen here with regard to this Document No. 8:83 the proposal, in which a proposal, managed by a national government in a party, is more similar to a campaign manifesto than a large-scale document, which necessarily takes a rather superficial form in the production process, is suitable for promoting the proposal for a grand process. As the majority point out in the recommendation, similar proposals on the main points of state price financing are, in terms of basing elderly care and care on a free choice of user choice, a new market, in terms of establishing a system for creating unit-price financing also within the care of the elderly, dealt with earlier this year. As the majority of the Committee also points out, the other proposals contained in this comprehensive document, points relating to hospital coverage, elderly persons, care pay, recruitment standards, good repute, elderly centres, housing visits to over 75 years of age, have been taken up and proposed in connection with other matters which the Committee has worked on in the last year, in particular in connection with St.melding. No 25 for 2005-2006, on mastering, care and care. We allowed ourselves in the committee to have a round on this, and it appears from the initial parts of the vote. We have taken note of what the Presidency decided, that, after all, there are some new points in the proposal, which made it a matter of consideration in the Committee. It is the same main picture that has been drawn from this proposal as the last time we dealt with this main model from the Progress Party, namely that the majority of the Committee will build an elderly care via the municipalities and will not be involved in and build up a central, state-owned old-age bureaucracy, a single-price bureaucracy built on a new market for the marketing of older services, where we will be able to get a distance from those who control it locally in the municipalities, which we believe will harm elderly care. It's the proximity, the responsibility, the sense of the needs of the population, to people you have around you, that the local people elected today are based on when they develop the care of the elderly. I think that's the very best approach you can have, that you're responsible to your voters and you're going to meet them at least every four years to show results in an area that affects people so directly. Instead of taking this responsibility for the development of care services, you will know that you always point out that you have a completely different system, a state-funded bureaucracy that will solve it in its own way, in practice you will be relinquishing the responsibility of really working hard to develop the services that people get around in the municipalities today. It seems as if you have to prove that the public is not good enough. When we see, for example: in the practice of the Progress Party in Oslo, where there is a very high threshold for obtaining hospital accommodation, and where there is still too rare a visit to the Home Aid Service, it has not been established that private individuals provide better services than public services. We see, for example: now in a metropolitan part of Oslo, where there is also a free user market for home care, that two public servants will be hired to monitor how these few private employees do the job. So there is also a need for quality assurance, as we look at the whole field. One important thing has been clarified in the Committee in this position, namely that there is a large majority in the view of certificates of good conduct. It is useful that the broad majority here say that one is skeptical about introducing good practice certificates in more and more sectors, that it is the responsibility of the employer to obtain references and knowledge about those applying for a job, that there is no guarantee of crime even if one obtains such good practice certificates, and that it is important not to exclude those who have once done something wrong in life from the labour market in too many areas. We're concerned about crime in relation to the elderly, but it can be combated in ways other than by a square approach through standard certificates. There is therefore a broad consensus in the Committee not to go the way that the main model of the Progress Party’s ‘parent care that shines’ represents, but there are several proposals that it is worth working on, as the Committee has done in connection with St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, and also now for care plan 2015. The plural setting is promoted by the Working Party, Right, SV, Center Party and Left and is based on that Document No. 8:83 for 2006-2007 is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1920	Since we're dealing with three issues, I start with the matter for which I'm rapporteur, and then I'm going to say a few words about the other issues at the same time. As regards Document No: 8:104 for 2006-2007, it is promoted by Gunhild Woie Duesund, Laila Davøy and Dagfinn Høybrätten, and they have called the proposal for a dignity guarantee. Various studies and media surveys show that in many cases older people do not receive the help, care and care they have the right to receive. That's the background for the three things we're now dealing with together. The proposal for a so-called guarantee of dignity raises a number of points that should already be a matter of course today, but unfortunately it is not. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left see the need to ensure the right to a safe and dignified old age by legislating rights that give real appeal, as the quality regulations adopted in 2003 have not been satisfactorily followed up. These parties are aware that several thousand older people do not receive the services they need and that the municipalities have not been able to ensure that the number of sick homes is adapted to the need for accommodation. The members of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party believe that caregiving elderly people must be guaranteed the right to stay in hospital once the need has been confirmed, and the Progress Party is pleased that you are not alone in calling for legislation in that area. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will introduce free home elections, as this will provide older people with a better opportunity to apply for hospital stays even outside their own city and municipality borders. The majority of the Committee, the members of the governing parties and the Left, point out that all older people should be able to be offered a proper and sound housing based on the individual’s needs and medical status, and therefore supports the Government’s desire to stimulate the development of new nursing homes and happy homes. Government parties stress that all older people should be given the opportunity to maintain or increase their ability to function well in their everyday lives, and emphasise the strategy of ensuring the right of the individual to the necessary rehabilitation and rehabilitation. We just had that case up, and I guess not everyone who is equally sure that that right is guaranteed. An overall committee will allow individuals to receive services in their own homes for as long as it is advisable and possible and for all older people to be offered a form of housing that is appropriate and appropriate to the needs and medical conditions of the individual. The Committee also considers that the threshold for obtaining hospital accommodation often depends on the local authority’s capacity and priorities and points out that the municipality also has a responsibility towards those who have an unmet care needs but who, for various reasons, are not even looking for the facilities. Most of the points in the proposal for a representative are already in existing quality regulations, as the government parties point out, but the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left refer to repeated media editions and enquiries from individuals and associations that show that the regulation is not followed up properly. The Progress Party, on its part, will support the proposal, but will at the same time clarify that this is not in any way a guarantee of dignity, but only a single proposal for improvements in the care of the elderly. I would therefore also like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in that matter. As regards Document No: 8:114 for 2006-2007 on a knowledge gap for care services, the Progress Party also supports this proposal. We also see several unsolved tasks and major challenges in recruiting more people who want to work in this sector, but also in terms of retraining, retraining and transfer of skills. The Progress Party believes that there is a great need to increase the effort related to vocational training, and in this context I refer to the party's alternative budget for 2008, where this area is reinforced by 100 million. kr. We believe that this will be an important contribution to a qualitative improvement in the provision of education in elderly care, mental health work and areas such as cancer care and environmental work. We are also aware that this year there are 40 applicants for vocational education in the field of maternity and child care in Eastfold, and without this allocation, these students now have to pay the entire education from their own pocket. We have registered that the government parties have promised to do something about the discrimination between technical vocational training and health education from 2009, but the Progress Party sees no reason to continue this discrimination in 2008, as we want more students for these professions now. It is also important to ensure good transition arrangements for those who re-train and re-train, and today this is not in place. The Progress Party agrees that there is a need to increase the number of medical, nursing and other professional staff in the institutional care of the elderly, and believes that a national minimum standard for medical coverage should be introduced in the nursing homes. We'll follow the Medical Association's recommendation to increase the medical coverage in the nursing homes by at least 100 pst, and not by 50 pst, which the other parties are in favour of. Nor can the Progress Party see that the proposed mandatory medical rotation service at the hospital is adequate, unless extra resources are provided with sufficient guidance capacity to take responsibility for the work of young medical candidates in the hospital. As far as the Progress Party has registered, the Government has not proposed measures to improve guidance capacity. The transfer of competences from the specialist health service must also be increased and administered as necessary. This type of transfer of competence cannot be dependent on project resources and therefore a separate financial instrument should be considered. Many of those who stay in nursing homes shorter or longer are seriously ill and dying, and there is therefore a great unmet need in nursing homes for qualified general practitioners and geriatricians. The Party considers that a national minimum standard of maintenance should be introduced at the nursing homes which ensures the right care factor and the right professional competence. As regards Document No: 8:83 in 2006-2007, on which the representative Bøhler spoke, it is a proposal promoted by Siv Jensen, Carl I. Hagen and Harald Nesvik. It is a proposal that, not only piece by piece and piece, but collectively addresses many of today's challenges in the care of the elderly and the challenges we will face in the years ahead. It's no wonder you've seen these single proposals several times before. They have been repeated on many, many occasions, and have only strengthened since the years have passed. There has been no solution to the problems. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party believe that there has been an increase in the number of older people over 80 years of age of 33 762 between 1997 and 2006 and that there has been only an increase of 4 118 sick homes in the same period. We now hear that many of the hospitals are used for rehabilitation — we have an increase in special dents, and there are many mentally ill people living in hospitals. At the same time, there is no increase in the number of sick homes, an increase that would have benefited the elderly. This is a weakening of the offer, when there has been a strong increase in the oldest over 90 years in the same period. Different and unclear interpretations of the words ‘care and care of the community’ have led to the fact that, to a large extent, care homes that are reported as housing with the care and care of the community have no fixed daily staff but that residents only receive services from home services in line with other residents’ care needs. Therefore, the coverage of the lucky day-old and hospitalised housing forms that emerge in different contexts and in the remarks of the government parties is highly misleading. It's also these numbers that formed the basis of the government's low bet, which we'll see the consequences of in the years that come. In this case, therefore, a proposal is made to ‘ensure that a clear definition of what should be described as the provision of care and care’ is established. The government has now only calculated investment grants for approx. 6 000 sick places and about 6 000 sick places. 6 000 care homes for different groups, such as drug users, people with mental illness, mentally retarded and elderly with the need for such housing, until 2015. Within these dwellings there shall also be sick places or places for palliative care. In addition, special dentures shall be covered for all persons with dementia by 2015. I have to say that it should be done to get that money to go to, so that this need is met. There is a small ambitious investment that will lead to a continued high shortage of hospitalised areas and sheltered units, and this will be further reinforced as the number of older people increases. With such a low objective, the need for the construction of organised hospitals for people with dementia and age psychiatric disorders or intermediate wards or hospice will not be ensured. The Progress Party will increase the grants for the construction of nursing homes in order to achieve 25 pst. in this case, the level of coverage and proposes to ask ‘the Government assessed the organisational and financial responsibility for the operation of intermediate departments and hospice’. The government’s plans for the municipal sector in 2008 are, in effect, a decline in the free incomes in relation to the situation at the end of 2007. This means that in 2008 many municipalities will either have to reduce the offer or operate more efficiently. The contribution and income of municipalities vary and will, of course, have a major impact on the development of care services. Repeatedly, we have heard that the framework grant should ensure equivalent services throughout the country. This is also justified by something as strange as the common sense is evenly distributed, and then municipalities will be able to adapt services to the needs. It is not crazy that there are different distributions, but the money that the municipalities have at their disposal. The money is often used to develop good services. It turns out that municipalities with high framework grants and a good economy have better services. That's a lot of sense to get the same thing out of $600 as out of $6,000. Financing is therefore an important element in ensuring equivalent services. The proposers therefore ask ‘The government is reviewing the financing model for the care of the elderly with a view to taking over the responsibility of the State’. When I hear Jan Bøhler defending today's model that local politicians are to be held responsible every four years, it is probably also appropriate to put the policy of enlargement at risk every four years. Right there it's not the big difference. With regard to the local economy, no matter which party governs – I can also take examples from Jan Bøhler’s contributions – it turns out that some municipalities have a very difficult time meeting the needs of the elderly in the municipality or those in need of care. It is in the light of this Progress Party that another funding is seeking to ensure equivalent offers throughout the country. It's not about more or less wit. It's about having equal opportunities to provide services to their citizens. When the government parties together with the Right and Left believe that users of care services have many rights in current legislation and will continue to refer to the municipality's obligation to provide the necessary healthcare and professionally sound social services to those who need it, it must be allowed to wonder what is the reason why conditions in many places are not better than they are today. It can't be unwillingness or politicians who don't want the best for their people. It seems that several of the batches are not entirely determined whether there is a need to ensure better service for the elderly, or whether it is good enough as it is. At least the progress party is sure that words and wishes so far do not prove clear enough about what services should contain and that the quality assurance of services is not good enough. Proposalers point out that many people have an unmet need for help, but for various reasons they do not contact the help service themselves. They therefore promote proposals to implement outreach and preventive home care in the community health care law to capture those who are not themselves in contact with for help. In Document No: 8:83 for 2006-2007 a whole of 23 thoughtful and important individual proposals are promoted, which together will guarantee a warm, optional and dignified care for the elderly, a guarantee of dignity, such as: would be followed up by statutory rights, national minimum standards for medical coverage and staffing standards in nursing homes, and financial follow-up both in the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes, and in the state financing of services ensuring an equivalent offer irrespective of residence. Those who really think something about securing the elderly a decent and safe old age now have the opportunity to support these 23 proposals in the matter, which I am addressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e1999	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has drawn up the proposals she referred to in case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2002	Inner. S. No 53 for 2007-2008 to Document No 8:114 for 2006-2007, by representatives of the Right, deals with the need for a knowledge gap for the care service. There are many proposals in the document that are well-founded, but I would like to remind you that the major challenges and needs of the care service were well-known in both increased competence and recruitment when we were in St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006 was presented with this very good background material. In previous debates we have also been involved in this matter, and we have agreed that many different measures need to be taken to increase skills and more people to work in the care sector. It is important to invest in increased skills for those to be recruited or those already working in the care sector. When a minority in the Committee, which is the majority in this House, is in favour of adding the matter to the Minutes, we are just referring to the work done in St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, which is part of the Competence Plan 2015, and, if the case had been dealt with here today, to the Contract for the Follow-up to the Care Plan 2015. The agreement concluded during the budgetary procedure of the Red-Green, Christian People's Party and Left contains several aspects of this which the Right has put on the agenda. The majority of the Committee, the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, in this matter, want an obliging cross-political plan of ageing, which the Christian People's Party and the Left have taken on the consequences of and contributed to the fact that we have been given the budget. Here too, right could be there, if they wanted it. It is important to focus on the acquisition of skills by unskilled people, which is agreed by an overall committee. There is some disagreement about the medical coverage in the nursing homes. It is worth noting that the medical coverage has actually improved, but that the goal has not yet been reached. The progress party here wants a national minimum standard for medical coverage, and increases the medical coverage by 100 pst, while the government's goal is 50 pst. To increase by 100 pst. So it's just the Progress Party that means. I would like to refer again to the work that has been done since the case was given, where both colleges, colleges, recruitment, universities and increased education of geriatricians are mentioned, and which is contained in this proposal from the Right. I address the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2019	The representative of Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2022	The debate needs to be a bit springy and summarising when it comes to dealing with three quite comprehensive representative proposals in one debate, and then at the brink of a long budgetary debate that has partly dealt with some of the same issues. I would think it would have been more fruitful if we had had time to discuss the three representative proposals separately, and more thoroughly, than it is now possible. I also remind you that it was a wish of the opposition parties in the committee when, on the basis of the invitation of the Council of State to a meeting of the Council of State to discuss possible prospects for a broader cross-political agreement on the care of the elderly. The immediate response from the opposition parties was that we could postpone the release of these three cases and take time for the new year to discuss through the specific content of the proposals to see what it is about, and what it is not about. The Government's response to this was to insist that this should be treated as part of the budgetary position and given in parallel with the work on the budget. It is not that much more to say about the matter. Because then it is quite clear where the majority is. But at the same time it is a somewhat paradoxical situation, because the same majority that then does not want to endorse the content of these proposals, mentioning two of the proposals, correctly in a very non-binding way, but nevertheless – mention them in the agreement that these parties have entered into, and say that one should, among other things. take account of these proposals – the word ‘referencing’ should be Norwegian. There is no obligation except that we have registered that the proposals are available, that we have attached the minutes to them, and that we are free to pick up what we would like from the proposals, and that we should not want to take them up. To call it an agreement is at my discretion to exaggerate quite significantly. Because after my use of language, an agreement is something that obliges someone to do something concrete. Let me point out the problem that relates to the very word ‘guarantee of dignity’, which is also written into the agreement between the government parties and the Christian People’s Party and the Left. The problem is related to both halves of the word, because ‘worthiness’ is a concept that is very difficult to define and even more difficult to operate. The only thing you can say with certainty is that it's a honorary word that no one can disagree with, but it's extremely difficult to specify any precise content of what "worthiness" means in this context. The second problem relates to the concept of ‘guarantee’, which, in its context for people, has a very precise content. You associate with the Sale of Goods Act, where it is an explicit fixed-term guarantee that the buyer has the opportunity to hold the seller responsible. The content of the word ‘guarantee’ and the word composition ‘guarantee of dignity’ are significantly weaker and more diffuse. I have to say in general that I doubt whether it is wise for political parties and parliaments to use a concept that has such precise legal content in the context where it belongs, thus creating the impression that users are offered something similar. You don't. First of all, it is clear from the proposal that the body issuing the guarantee is not the same as the one to discharge it. Already where the analogy with the legal terminology fails in terms of the term ‘guarantee’. It is also not easy to imagine how, in several of the points included in the draft, it shall be possible for some to decide whether or not the guarantee has been honoured. It is a condition that it may have some meaning to talk about a right of appeal, if you believe that you have not achieved what you are entitled to. I think, briefly, that it is not appropriate to communicate with the voters in this way, that is, to use words that promise more than what you are able to keep. Finally, a small comment on the competence issue. I allowed myself during the budget debate instead of pointing out that there is a striking gap between what a majority in the Committee has agreed to with regard to Document No. 8:114 for 2006-2007 on the capacity at higher education level of health and care personnel, and what is written in the agreement between the government parties, the Christian People’s Party and the Left. It worries me. Everything speaks for the fact that in the eight-year period up to 2015 that we are talking about, there is a very high probability that there will be a need to increase that capacity, among other things. because the labour market is such that we have to expect an increasing number of people with higher education in this field to seek employment in other sectors, simply because they are very much in demand in the labour market. That means that we have to expect a significantly greater take-off than the one that comes from natural retirement and retirement. In this respect, it is not satisfactory that a large majority in this room commit themselves not to escalate the capacity in the health and care sector for highly educated personnel, but to hold it at about the same level as today, on the grounds that it is good enough, as the representative of the Skjillaa said in the budget debate earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2041	For more than a year and a half, the Christian People's Party has been working for a better content and quality in care for the elderly. In the context of the treatment of the care notification in our work, we work through needs and actions today and in the future in Norwegian care for the elderly. We continued this work in the autumn, for example. in the context of the discussion of the State budget and of the proposals for representatives that we are now discussing. The agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party on the care of the elderly ensures that a guarantee of dignity should be drawn up in Norwegian care for the elderly. A guarantee of dignity involves a collection of concrete quality requirements. The elderly should include, among others: have the assurance that they will be able to meet their basic needs. Good and enough food is no obvious when we know that 20-50 pst. by the elderly in health care institutions are undernourished. Responsible medical care is not a matter of course, when we know that the sickest elderly in hospitals each have six–seven treatment-intensive diseases. A decent housing offer is not obvious, when the County Board of Oslo and Akershus go out and say that the care of the elderly has become a risk area. The threshold for hospitalization is sky high. Strengthened rights for the elderly are a long way to go for better quality of care for the elderly. In Sweden, too, investigation work has been started on the introduction of a guarantee of dignity. A guarantee of dignity shall clarify what older people and their relatives can expect and shall clarify the requirements of the care services. In particular, the right to appeal should be improved and simplified, and violations of rights should be promptly corrected. That the Right does not want to have warranty rights and appeals, then gets to be. We'll be able to design a guarantee of dignity, despite Inge Wohnen's legal assessments of it. A meaningful content of everyday life is important for everyone. The right to day care is an important part of the guarantee of dignity and will come as part of a new law, as we see it. The agreement to which the Christian People's Party is a party must ensure that all municipalities have an organized daily activity offer for demente by 2015. This will relieve relatives, who are making a great deal of effort, and may also postpone the need for institutional space. Only 4 pst. Today, there are daily offers of home-dwelling units. A proposal for stepping up cultural actions for the elderly from 2009 onwards shall be submitted. All these proposals are good and concrete. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal from the Right that a concrete and binding competence plan be drawn up. Efforts at education, research and recruitment are essential in order to achieve the objective of better quality of care for the elderly. We don't just need more hands in old age care. Skillful, safe and warm hands are needed. The requirement for a competence plan in line with Right Document No. Eight proposals are also included in the agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The agreement also ensures that it will be invested in ethics in all municipalities. Professional schools for the further training of auxiliary nurses and of the new health and care workers will receive a new and improved funding, as is currently the case with vocational training for the man-dominated profession. A project shall also be undertaken with regard to teaching home services. Today, the established, successful educational home where the development of knowledge of care for the elderly, in close cooperation with higher education institutions, contributes to better health care. Furthermore, nearly twice as many geriatrics are to be trained in relation to today. The Christian People's Party, through the old age agreement, will be a watchdog in the development of a sufficient number of hospitals and nursing homes. For us, it has been particularly important to have an impact on grants for building in municipalities relief units at the end of life. Dignity must also be ensured in this phase of life. Very many patients in a nursing home are demented. Nevertheless, 20 000 facilities are missing in the Demente institution today. In the agreement with the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been given the impression that by 2015 there will be arranged places for all the entities that need institutional space. The agreement we've come up with should not be a self-satisfied sleeping cushion for anyone. It obliges, yes, it obliges all of us, including the Christian People's Party and the Left, who are not in government right now. The Christian People's Party is impatient for results and will be the future. And the impatience we have for concrete results, we will be clear and clear in the future. We expect and know that we will have dialogue, and we welcome the Government's presenting plans as soon as possible as the agreement announces. And we must be constructive. Finally, the Christian People's Party supports five of the proposals in the proposal for a representative of the Progress Party, Document No. 8:83, and I'm referring here to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2069	We are dealing with three representative proposals, all of which deal with quality and quantity in the care sector – a comprehensive proposal from the Progress Party, a knowledge promise from the Right and a dignity guarantee from the Christian People's Party. With regard to the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party, the Central Party believes that very much of this is ensured in the agreement concluded between the five parties. With regard to the guarantee of dignity, these five parties have undertaken to work on a common health and social law. If a guarantee of dignity is to be drawn up, one must, among other things: take into account the proposals in Document No. 8:104. With regard to the proposal from the Right, the agreement also corresponds to the five lots between them. The 2015 Competence Commitment shall cover a level at all levels, in the case of unskilled persons, at post-secondary level, at university level, in the case of professional qualification, specialisation and dimensioning, in the case of recruitment measures, and in the case of research and professional development. We believe that this agreement ensures a progress that is absolutely necessary in order for all users of care services to receive adequate, high-quality services. I want to ask the representative Giltun some questions. Is it an objective of the representative that as many as possible should have their last years in hospital, or is it an objective that older people should stay at home as long as they want, and as long as they do? When I ask, it's because she's questioning that 4.6 pst. are currently used for rehabilitation and short-term care in nursing homes. I have always thought and thought that in the case of good care for the elderly, it is about a balance between good home services, the possibility of rehabilitation, the possibility of a short-term stay in a nursing home, organised housing and health homes – when there is a need for it. But the starting point is that most people want to stay at home as long as they do. Then it is important that we have a wide range of services that enable this goal to be achieved. Then to pay. I perceive that the representative for the payroll hears exactly what he wants to hear, or he has problems with what he hears. Then I actually refer to what I have said with regard to the proposal that lies there about educational capacity at about the current level, and to what the agreement says that plans should be made for both quality and dimensioning throughout the spring. If the pay has not been paid, I feel that it is his problem and not ours. So pay says that more people will go away from the care professionals in the years that come. Well, wages are theologians, but he's not a prophet. I would like to hear the background because he explains that many people want to run this profession. I think, on the other hand, that it'll be much more interesting to work in this sector in the future, because the quality will be better, because it's going to be exciting professional development, because this is really an area where both nurses, help nurses and doctors see that here it's actually exciting to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2087	I'm a little uncertain as to whether I dare to pull myself out of the debate, because I'm neither a theologian, a philologist or a lawyer, but I get to try. The three things that we are now dealing with in one piece are all about care for the elderly. Not a very small amount of the time we have had during the budget debate until today, you are also concerned with the care of the elderly. Although I have recorded some disagreement in the debate now, a discord that may be on a rising course – and we have heard a little in the past – it is at least good, I think, that the challenge in the care of the elderly is being challenged from several angles and from several positions. All parties agree on the goal; we all want a good one and – I think I dare say – a worthy care for the elderly. Nevertheless, there are some differences with regard to the active substance and how we will achieve the common objectives. In the case of case No. 5 and the 23 proposals of the Progress Party have come forward, I will comment on them a little. Some of these suggestions involve more detailed management of the municipal enterprise. Another proposal advocates a regulation of the financial responsibility for what we now know as municipal care for the elderly. The left is against this idea, which will in reality mean the end of municipal self-government. It will mean the end of local political responsibility, yes, it will mean the end of the municipal system as we know it today. Rather, the Left is the champion of more state-level detailed management of the care of the elderly. We believe that it is the locally elected local government representatives who are to be the residents of their homes. This applies not least to those who need care and care. With this, I just want to make it clear that the Left will not support the Progress Party's proposal for a state-owned seniority. The left believes that in many ways there are enough plans and enough laws and regulations within Norwegian health and social services. More laws and regulations mean more counting, more registration and more control – not least it means more bureaucracy. When it comes to who is being assigned to the bureaucratic tasks around the municipalities – this IPLOS system also came – and who registers and does the job, for example. Within the care sector, it is the most competent nurses, the most competent caregivers and the most competent physiotherapists. So it's the same professional groups that all the hospitals and all the residents are yelling for, and that are flawed in the entire municipality of Norway. Here we see that maybe we're doing something that's not smart. At least no more red tape is needed from the state. On the other hand, more action is needed, and I am not least thinking of more interaction between health care levels. The fancy expression ‘the seamless healthcare service’ should be more than a great term. Better interaction has a large potential, which can be addressed by the state through healthcare professionals. There is probably a need for an incentive from the ministry level. I call on the Council of State to take the big and important interplay ball. Otherwise, I would say that the Left agrees with the Right's proposal for a knowledge lift for the care services. This proposal goes beyond the conciliation agreement. The left nevertheless chose to enter into the agreement with the government party and the Christian People's Party, especially because we believe that the signal to cooperate on a major challenge is important to communicate to the people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2106	I am very pleased with the commitment of the Health and Care Committee and that there is a very clear majority that stands together on the broad lines of care policy. This was already evident in the last spring, when the Stortinge examined the draft state budget for 2008. I believe that a poor policy course and a predictable framework are important for the local authorities' efforts to improve their care services. I am particularly pleased that agreement on the care plan 2015 has been reached. Dagfinn Højbrätten's initiative for a more committed plan to strengthen care for the elderly, and the Prime Minister's response to it, led to the agreement we have now reached between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties. The agreement covers, as is known, the provision of valuable care for the elderly, competence, dimensioning and active care. It contributes to both concrete and strengthening the 2015 care plan, and the Government will be following that plan on its own. With regard to representatives Woie Duesund, Davøy and Høybråten's proposal to introduce a guarantee of dignity in the care of the elderly, I will come back to that question in the context of a proposal for a new common health and social law in line with the agreement that has been concluded. The representatives of Wage, Sjøli, Eriksen Soreide and Gundersen have proposed a knowledge-raising promise for the care services. I now believe that there is quite a broad political consensus on what the major challenges are, and what the main action is needed to achieve the skills we need. We can also state that there is quite a broad consensus on the proposals in the Competence Plan 2015 when the Stortinget was going to deal with the budget for 2008. This includes, inter alia: that the Government will come back with a very concrete proposal for a new and better financing of, among other things. The colleges. However, if we are to highlight differences between the government's policy and the proposal of these representatives, I believe that the government is giving local variation, needs and priorities to local authorities. I also think that we have been doing quite well over the last few years, because this is a good thing, among other things. has been a record growth in new annual care works — a growth of skilled staff — while the use of part-time in the sector has decreased. In addition to the competence and recruitment plan, I would also like to highlight our efforts in research, strengthening medical services in hospitals, the dementia plan and our cooperation with the Municipal Centre for Quality Development. On the other hand, the proposal by the representatives of Hagen, Jensen and Nesvik for a progress plan to ensure a warm, optional and dignified care for the elderly involves a drastic shift in the principle of financing the care of the elderly, where responsibility is added to the State. I do not share the strong belief of the proposers that shifting responsibility by itself will lead to better supply or quality – I would rather say: rather, on the contrary. This is because users have very different and very different needs. I trust that the municipalities and their employees who are closest to each user can best assess how users will get a good offer that is tailored to the individual’s needs. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with the Government that care services will continue to be anchored in the municipalities in the future, with closeness to the users and with a good opportunity to design a service offer adapted to local circumstances. This is best ensured through a continued framework funding system. Both the elderly and the younger users of the care service will receive the best possible service offer – I feel that we are all concerned about that. Today, there are more than 160,000 people employed in the care and care sector, each of whom makes a huge effort for people who need good help and care. In my opinion, we get good quality by giving enough money to the municipalities, by developing our professional relations with the employees and by listening more to the users. Government policy shall be based on Community solutions. We do not want the commercialisation of health and social services. People should be sure that they get the help they need when they need it, regardless of the individual's wallet. It shall be the responsibility of the Community. We can state that there is a broad consensus that users of care services should have the option to choose – as it were, freedom of choice is a good thing. In the opinion of the Government, freedom of choice is best ensured by the fact that the individual user has good choices. The most important thing, in our view, is to expand and secure good public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2134	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2137	This might be a little bit jumpy. We're dealing with so many things, and we're jumping here and there. I was a little fascinated here earlier about how a person perceives large amounts, and how a person perceives small amounts, especially in government circles. One billion kroner, which we talked about before today, was deflated to 1 pst. and actually interpreted as little, as I interpret the Council of State. Then we went into a series of exercises with the representative Kschilaa. 0.2 per million was much more than 0.02, of course. But 17.7 million. kr does not sound so much when these different fields are pointed out as budget winners. But even more fascinating is the funding when these 17.7 million are taken up by an underfunded health business next year. That's impressive! Then my question becomes: Is this standard funding model? Or is it Terra Securities that made him?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2148	I don't know if I got completely involved with what the question really was. I said that what the hospitals have to streamline next year, which is approximately NOK 1 billion, is approx. 1 pst. of the total amount available to hospitals, which next year is approximately NOK 84 billion. But that doesn't mean that the amount, $1 billion, is little money. It's not necessarily. So when a majority in the committee has come to the conclusion that they want to move on some money, not least to strengthen the prevention side, I think that's good. We need more effort here too. I believe that the amounts that have moved here are good and, to the most extent, sound. It is not always possible to measure the number of dollars – how large or small the amount is – if the amount is working, because in some areas are e.g. Seventeen million. NOK money from which you can benefit very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2155	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2160	I would like to answer a few questions that have arisen during the debate, including: the question from Rune J. Kjällaaen, who wondered if the undersigned and the Progress Party wanted as much as possible – preferably everyone – to live in a nursing home. That's not right. This is 25 pst. the degree of coverage, which we still maintain, has been a cross-political agreement on the past. It's done calculations, and it was thought that it was the right level to go on. After that time, changes have occurred. Many more have become over 90 years of age. It has been seen that some mentally ill people are staying in nursing homes and may need special wards there. Intermediary departments have begun to be set up because hospitals are now printing out patients earlier. In addition, palliative care has been started in wards connected to hospitals, and there is also an increase in the provision of rehabilitation. It is very good that as much as possible can be rehabilitated in the municipality, if that is the best offer – but it is not good if it is done within the narrow framework of health care facilities that you have today. Because today there are actually 16 000 sick homes missing. This means that there are very many short-term and relief areas missing, and there are too many sick people who are at home and don't get a place that they need. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that this needs to be financed in a different way. This has nothing to do with weakening local democracy. As the Left's representative said here, if the municipalities no longer take responsibility for the care of the elderly by granting framework transfers to the municipalities, local democracy is destroyed. Now there has been local democracy in this country long before the municipalities got responsibility for the care of the elderly, and so I think it will continue to be even if there is a government funding that will enable all the municipalities, in the same way, to give a good offer to their older people. The Progress Party does not want the municipalities to have any responsibility anymore. Municipalities shall be responsible for both establishment and organisation and shall be responsible for the provision of services to citizens. But they're going to be guaranteed equal funding. It should not be the case that some municipalities have such a poor economy that they cannot offer their citizens what they need. It's strange that now, after so many years of repeating the same thing from this pulpit, you don't see that the medicine you've been using now, actually doesn't work, and it's time to try a new medicine. I hope that more people will agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2173	The representative of the Skjälaa has an almost impressive ability to rise up. After his last post, I owe him a little self-declaration regarding my hearing and my vision. That's pretty good. I have read the text repeatedly, and I have heard what Kjellera herself has contributed in terms of publishing the text of the agreement. I agree with the representative, Mr Bøhler, who stated earlier in today's debate that there is no need for it, the general point that talks about recruitment and dimensioning plans in all areas, and the specific point that concerns university-trained personnel. These two points are in direct conflict with each other, and what I've tried to clarify is whether there's any deeper thought behind them. Obviously, it doesn't. It is relatively easy to understand when you know how this agreement was made, the urgency of the work, and the lack of communication that marked the work. Then it is certainly not strange that there are inconsistency and contradictions. So the representative interpolated Schjälaa as to how I can know that there will be increasing mobility within higher education professionals in the years to come. I thought, with respect, that most people had come to realize that in our society, the trend is towards higher education staff becoming less and less in one and the same profession in life, simply because the labour market is no longer like that. And if there's something we know with certainty without having to belong to neither the great nor the small prophets, it's that this evolution is going to continue, and it's going to accelerate at speed. In addition, today we have a labour market where the demand pressure is enormously high from all the expanding sectors of Norwegian working life. Then there is not much knowledge, insight or imagination to see that it is going to be as I said, namely that the take-off – or rather mobility – above the sectoral boundaries in the field of professional practice will increase, and that it suggests that we need to dimension higher education then.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2184	I'm not going to go out on an interpretation of neither priests nor theologians nor others and what they think in the various matters. I will try to concentrate a little on the matter on which the Progress Party has put forward proposals in its Document No. The eight proposals are about what has to do with the importance of also having a variation in the provision we have in the care of the elderly. Because it's quite obvious that there's different needs out there. There's nothing to say that because we're older, we're becoming a more complex group. We're still individuals who need to be taken care of just as individuals. That's why it's important that we have diversity. This weekend I was stopped by a lady, otherwise a working party politician, in my home municipality. She's a nurse, and she came to me and said, "Now I'm doing very well." I have now joined the municipality, in the health care system, and started for myself, within the same area. I see that now I am able to get my daily life to stretch to. I can make it even better for those who are my users. – She was very pleased with her situation. This, I think, is important that we facilitate even elsewhere. Because we need all the care workers that we can get in touch with in this country. But then it's also important that we, as politicians, make sure that the individual who's going to work in this sector has a variety, has other opportunities than being run into a certain system. Furthermore, it is important that we not just focus on what we disagree about. It is clear that today’s debate has concerned in many ways ‘a certain agreement’, some of which are referred to as the agreement on the elderly, and which has been renamed ‘empty barrels fall the most’. I think after hearing the debate today, I might be the one on the right track, but I won't say much more about that. At least in the future, let's try to cultivate the consensus and not the disagreement. It won't be any better if we take out any words and put our names under, and then we think we've solved the problems in the years that come. Actually, we don't have it. The elderly and caregivers in this country deserve that we try to do something concrete, that we make sure to maintain the variation, that we make sure to maintain diversity, because we're different. We have different needs. Either we live in Lindesnes, in Hammerfest, in Ålesund or in Hedmarken, we have different needs, we have different aspirations. That is what politicians must take care of for the individual citizen in this country. That's actually why we're here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2199	I chose to take the word again. I'm going to give the representative a salary right in that this agreement we have really had little time to think about all the points we've agreed on after all. But I want to say that the point that the salary has repeatedly taken up was a point that came into the agreement very early. It's also pay familiar with. Just because that point wasn't good enough, we got a new point, namely, about the level of competence and dimensioning. That is the reality. And then it might be that something is not quite well formulated in relation to each other, so it gets to be. But I was very happy as we also received positive feedback from the government parties that dimensioning at all levels will be a reality. So I want to say that the will is at least present for us to cooperate on this in the future. I hope that we will continue to cooperate well throughout the Committee in the future – I think we will. And then time shows what we can get out of the agreement that is now concluded between the vast majority of the parties on the Stortinget. I'm glad. I'm going to work constructively, and I'm going to be impatient. But I think that to a greater and greater extent we should also take on that people out there are pretty tired of the grievances we're doing with some times here from this pulpit. They can't listen to the political debates anymore. I think that's worrying. This is not a reminder of anyone – it is allowed to stand outside of agreements, and it is allowed to be part of agreements – but I think for my part that it is wise that we become even more cooperative in several major areas. We have a lot of experience in doing that, we're actually able to achieve the goals that we set ourselves. The will is at least present on the part of the Christian People's Party. We're going to do our best.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2211	That was probably the end of this debate. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5, 6 and 7. [[Fotation, see page 1239]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2228	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1241]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2245	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2262	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2280	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2297	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2313	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2321	The size must then vote on the case No. 1-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2329	In the course of the debate, 17 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3-10, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposals No. 11-14, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 15 and 16, from Laila Davøy on behalf of Christian People's Party proposal No. 17, from Gunvald Ludwigsen on behalf of Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 17 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to facilitate the entry of several types of health professionals into the home so that older people can have an assessment of their health needs in their own environment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e2362	The proposals are then put to the vote. 15 and 16, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e4909	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-14, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e4945	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 to 10, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e5006	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7568	It is the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party that are behind the setting. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against the position under these Roman numerals. - It's nodding. The President also assumes that the Christian People's Party and the Left will now support the vote? – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7627	This is the Progress Party, Right. Christian People's Party and Left who have the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7646	Here the whole committee is behind the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7661	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that MS patients receive at all times the treatment they benefit most from, including the Tysabri medicinal product and other future medicinal products with the same active substance, irrespective of where they live.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7687	During the debate, Mr Asphjell put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:56 [[2006-2007]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7700	It is the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7716	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set a response time requirement for the ambulance service throughout the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7746	During the debate, 23 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 6–23, from Vigdis Giltun, on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6–23, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7876	Then it's the proposals No. 1–5, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7929	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for laws that give real rights to appeal in order to give older people a safe and dignified old age.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e7953	The proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party reads: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for a guarantee of dignity in Norwegian care for the elderly, provided for by law, regulation or administrative action, with the following rights: 1st@item: inlistbox All older persons shall be offered a form of housing which is appropriate and appropriate to the individual’s needs and medical condition.2. No one shall experience malnutrition. Meals shall be provided to all. Everyone shall have the right to the most normal life possible, with a normal daily rhythm and necessary assistance for personal hygiene.4. Anyone who wishes to do so must participate in daily or activity offers.5. All demented people who need to live on separate dementia units shall be offered this.6. Everyone's going to get the right medicine. The prescription of medicinal products must be coordinated in order to prevent errors.7. All persons living in nursing homes shall be accompanied by permanent hospital doctors specialising in general medicine or geriatrics.8. Everyone in a nursing home who wants it will get exclusive. Anyone who wants to do so will be asked about existing questions with professional personnel from their own conversation teams in the municipalities. Everyone should have the right to die where they want it. Everyone shall be given the opportunity to maintain or increase their ability to function in everyday life. Care shall contribute to rehabilitation as far as possible.’» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e8007	During the debate, Mr Mandt-Bartholsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:114 [[2006-2007]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e8039	The President makes it clear that it is the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e8055	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of the representative of the Grandfather Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 December 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the specific rules on medically assisted treatment in the regulation will continue to require that drug-free treatment be tested, preferably several times, and that this can only be waived in exceptional cases. [[LAR]] The rules for LAR contained in the regulation must also require controls for urine samples, requirements for individual levels and requirements for the patient to have long-term use of drugs behind them, and that current printing criteria are included in the regulation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e8074	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of the representative of the Grandfather Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 December 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to consider an introduction of the right to coercive treatment of LAR patients who are pregnant.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e8094	The vote will take place on behalf of the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) on proposals submitted by Knut Arild Hareide from the meeting of Odelstinget on 4 December 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a survey of the nature of the school health service provision around the country and, in view of this, to assess the need for a national minimum standard for school health services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e8113	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of Mr Right from the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 4 December 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to monitor the availability of treatment capacity in child and youth psychiatry and to present the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e8134	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 December 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own report on the health of children and young people.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e8153	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 December 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to establish/promote a new website for children and young people with mental illness: the BUP on the Internet.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-10.ana.ud907e8194	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
