ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e26	The representatives of Henning Skumsvoll, Torfinn Opheim and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e43	The matter currently under consideration has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e.: 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Odelstinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e59	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes and Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e72	The decision that we want to make today means that we are taking the longest step we've ever taken to bring the man-made global warming under control. Following the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, which entered into force in 1994, we got the Kyoto Agreement in 1997, with its entry into force in 2005. This is the most important international framework for the fight against climate change. I myself had the pleasure of being present at parts of the party meeting under the Kyoto Protocol in Montreal in 2005, when the regulation of the arrangements was formally decided. In both Norwegian and international policies, we still experience that some raise doubts about man-made climate change, despite massive research and documentation. Fortunately, fewer and fewer people refuse to take in this knowledge. Measurements through ice core drilling show that the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere is the highest in 650 000 years! The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has increasingly demonstrated the likelihood of anthropogenic climate change and the threats it poses to the environment and society. Yes, we see the consequences clearly in the northern regions. Today, we are making changes to the ETS and greenhouse gas emission allowance law, changes relating to the scope of the allowance obligation and the allocation of allowances, in order to align our law with the obligations we have assumed during the 2008-2012 period of the Kyoto Protocol, and to the EU ETS Directive. We commit ourselves to doing something about what threatens our future, the danger of ever more global warming. We get the world's most stringent climate quota legislation, and the law provides a basis for us to meet our obligations – and more. Perhaps our legislation can become a pattern for many other countries. The law is balanced, because it imposes emission reductions on us by having limited free quota allocations, while making good use of the Kyoto mechanisms in an active way, through emissions trading, through project cooperation between industrialised countries that have ratified the Kyoto Protocol, and through project cooperation with developing countries. When we have as a basis that we generally do not allocate additional free allowances to new industries and activities with capacity extensions, it may be important for many businesses to exploit the mechanisms for purchasing and selling allowances. Therefore, we will apply for a derogation from the EU directive provision for a maximum of 10 pst. the total quantity of allowances may be sold to undertakings subject to allowances. We can therefore allocate fewer free allowances. Nor do we want to put an overall ceiling on the use of allowances in the Norwegian quota system in terms of project-based mechanisms, joint implementation and the green development mechanism. This could mean that Norwegian industry can manage a strict Norwegian quota regime within a good economic framework, while contributing to good climate-reduction projects outside our borders. It will be good for the global environment. This may be good for the development of the countries with which we trade, and this may lead to faster use of environmentally good technologies in these countries. The Kyoto Agreement thus facilitates cost-effective climate policies across countries and sectors. I know that questions can be raised about how trading allowances will lead to actual reductions in emissions. It's an important and fundamental question, which I think should be taken seriously. I would like to stress that for this to be right, it is a prerequisite that the Clean Development Mechanism is subject to an international system to approve both the projects and the emission reductions that each project leads to. Emission reductions must be measurable, verifiable and in addition to what would otherwise have happened. So far, we have to trust that the United Nations system works as it should. Both the Norwegian industry and the industry in the world also have to focus on costing more and more greenhouse gas emissions. I think that's going to be the content of future allowances. The media has created the impression that there is a huge conflict with this law, and that there is a narrow majority. In my opinion, this is not the case. With the exception of the Advance Party, the other parties are made up of a broad but quite variable majority. The lot's number people will do well for it. There is reason to note that the Christian People's Party is only involved in two aberrant and very limited proposals. The left has no dissenting proposal to the law. The right-wing party and the Progressive Party each have their own proposals relating, inter alia, to: the reserve ratio for capacity expansion, new industry and atypical years in relation to the baseline period. It is also a clear advantage for the further management of the allowance system that all batches, except the Progress Batch, assume that the allocation of allowances will be based on the average emissions of the activities in the period 1998 to 2001, which will then be the base period, as was the trial period 2005 to 2007. The same batches are also behind the decision that the quota allocation for land-based industry should be 92 pst. the emissions during the baseline period and the allocation of allowances corresponding to 87 pst of energy emissions from ETS activities in existing land-based industries. of the average emissions in the base years, while the emission allowances are equivalent to 100 pst. This corresponds to approximately 80 pst free allowances. compared to 2005 emissions. I would also like to stress the importance of an overall committee supporting the proposal on the areas to be covered by the quota obligation, which means that about 40 pst. are covered by national greenhouse gas emissions. A prerequisite for the Climate Allowance Act is that the allowance system shall provide incentives for emission reduction measures. In the hearings, both the opinions received in writing in the draft consultation and those delivered during the committee consultation, it was found that all took the climate challenges seriously and endorsed the main elements of the Climate Change Act. The objections were raised in relation to allowances servers for new establishment, capacity expansion, atypical years of the base period and relocation of activities. Here we also separate layers in the committee. Yes, there's no reason to say that the majority choice is easy to make. It's demanding. It is claimed that the granting of new allowances beyond base years will lead to the sementing of Norwegian industry, relocation and company death. No, that's not going to be the result. I have previously mentioned the possibility of extended trading in allowances, etc. It is a system that Norwegian enterprises will benefit from, as they have done during the trial period. I would like to mention here that by not laying the basis for adaptations to higher emissions, to shiftovers and to create expectations for more free allowances, both existing and new industries will make maximum efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, because it is profitable. Of course, the Climate Change Act is based on the Kyoto Protocol, which says that countries have obligations to reduce or eliminate emissions, which also means that pollution will cost. The vote will take place at the end of the vote and will take place at the end of the debate. This was supposed to catch up with a company like SMA Mineral, which, for environmental reasons, should have come under a more favourable regime. The holding currently uses excess gas from an enterprise which is not regulated by allowances or charges, which may mean that this enterprise would flar the gas. It would be a miserable environmental policy. In order to capture such cases, we see the need to propose additions to Section 7, second paragraph, new second sentence. The proposal is distributed. I take up the proposal herein.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e121	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e126	The urgency for which this case is a victim becomes very visible when the case rapporteur submits a proposal in the Chamber on the day on which the case is to be dealt with. The representative Kristoffersen stated that an estimate that new industries will be stimulated to reduce their CO2 emissions through this system, by not allocating free allowances to new industries. On the other hand, the odelstungsproposition says that one allocates 100 pst. allowances to the process industry, because one does not expect that it is possible to make any particular cut there. How can we have a logical context in this? How can one be consistent when one says that one stimulates to cut, while one for existing industry says that cut is not possible? We know that this will impose on the Norwegian industry an extra cost of at least half a billion kroner in relation to the statements made by the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e136	To the claim of urgency: yes, this has been a quick process, but we have allowed ourselves the time necessary to get to the goal, by deciding that we should spend a week more than what was the starting point. The basis of the ETS Act is that new industries should ensure that the economic impact of their own emissions is taken into account when calculating both operations and investment. That is the basis, and I just justified it in relation to the obligations we have. So that's how the process industry gets 100 pst. – yes, they do. But it is also true that if the process industry finds out that it is useful to cut its emissions, they will be left with a gain. So they have an incentive to try to get the most out of this, by selling allowances, and then getting out of it financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e145	Is this proposal put on the table today due to the fact that the government parties have begun to get telephones from individual companies that have now discovered that they are at risk of losing because of the decision taken today? That's the one question. The second question concerns whether this proposal has been checked out by the Ministry. Is this sustainable in relation to State aid law in our EEA Agreement? Moreover, the Council of State has previously replied to a similar question that this type of activity may be very complex in relation to that State aid legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e152	First of all, we have been recorded – I think the entire committee has been given – in advance of the start of the treatment in Stortinget through the hearings. There are no new ideas about it to me, and as far as I know, neither to others. So we know what we're doing, I think. But then the representative Kristiansen takes up a very important theme, really. This is the question of whether we can approve all of our arrangements by including the EEA Agreement in this, and that ESA may have to enter into the picture and approve it. Of course, it's an open question, but it's all about many of the arrangements that we're making right here. So it remains to be seen. But when we propose this, of course, it's settled with the Government. This is also the basis for the applications to go from the Government to ESA. We hope that all the elements that are going to be captured and approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e159	The working party wishes to present an offensive profile in order to reduce climate emissions. This is a new image that rhymes poorly with the struggle of the party for, among other things. gas power plants without CO2 handling. We also see that the work on the climate action plan is still being delayed. Why is it hesitated? The Quota Act is to be adapted to the EU ETS Directive, but the Workers' Party wishes to exempt from the limitation on the use of Kyoto mechanisms, which allows it to buy free of its own reductions in climate change. Does the Labour Party not see that this restriction is quite wise, on the basis of an ethical argument on burden-sharing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e169	With regard to the issue of the government taking time to produce completely groundbreaking proposals in world history – I almost have to say – whether that is what we are doing in the climate quota law, or what the government is now working on in relation to climate action plans, no other country has done this. I think it is good both for the country and also for the Stortinget that there will be a well-worked document for the Stortinget. When it comes to the issue of not having access to the purchase of allowances under the different mechanisms, which I also did well in my main post, it has to do with – as I also said is a little difficult – that we put very strict restrictions on our companies. So the companies that see themselves having to buy allowances because they can't produce results themselves can use those mechanisms without a roof. So that means we're getting a balanced approach to the climate allowance law in terms of trade, migration and reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e176	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e180	The matter we are dealing with today is of great importance for the Norwegian industry. It lays down framework conditions for Norwegian industry to deal with over the next five years and is likely to leave what is happening after 2012. It is then sad that Stortinget has had to wait so long and must work in a hurry. No matter what the previous speaker may say, this position bears the mark of urgency, on the part of the Committee, and not least on the part of the Government. I'll get back to that. Let me first say that the Advance Party is for quota trading. That's why it's sad when we put the regime for the quota trading system in Norway, that it's going to be like that. The Progress Party considers that a quota trade must be carried out in order to ensure that the money invested in CO2 mitigation measures benefits as much as possible. Then a had a real system at the bottom. I'm afraid we don't. It is quite gratifying that the Government – or at least the red-green parties on the Stortinget – now says that quota trading is good. This means that at least SV has turned its back on their resistance to quota trading as the Stortinge case dealt with a similar case in 1997, namely the follow-up to the Kyoto agreement. What's sad is that the system gets as bad as it gets. In principle, industry and most people are positive about having quota trade into the law, and it is important that this law is passed in order for Norwegian industry to be able to participate in quota trading. But it is not so important to get this law in place that one should do it at any price, because Norway itself decides how one allocates these quotas, and one can have more than enough quotas to allocate to Norwegian industry today, as long as one says that the oil industry is going to buy its own. The attitude and policy of the Government are marked by the fact that this is a compromise between two parties which have traditionally stood on both sides in this matter. You'll see. The Workers' Party has been given the opportunity to use the Kyoto mechanisms as freely as possible. That is good, it fully supports the Progress Party. At the same time, SV has had an impact on its policy of allocating minimum quotas to industry. We saw a headline in the newspaper a few months ago where the government would rather not distribute a single allowance, with a cost of NOK 3-4 billion as a consequence. Now it turns out that one does not distribute allowances to the new industry, at a cost of approx. One and a half billion dollars. Not as bad as it could be, but still wrong enough. I note that this will be the same as giving a death sentence on all industries established in Norway after 2001. These include: notified to NorFra Kalk and SMA Magnesium. That is why the Progress Party – and I am addressing our proposals here – will promote a number of proposals for legislative changes that ensure that we have a good climate quota law in place, that it is a future for the industry in Norway, and not least that the climate quota law is in line with that of the European Union. What's wrong with what's now proposed? In general, what's good is that exciting industry is going to be pretty good. It also says industry, LO and NHO. The problem is that new and extended production after 2001 is going to be completely miserable. Thus, a single free quota is not allocated to new industries or extended activities after 2001, with the exception of gas power stations in special circumstances. In response to the Committee, the Minister for the Environment has said that it will provide over half a billion dollars in extra costs for this industry. 20 pst. of the holdings in the allowance system will have to purchase allowances equivalent to more than 20 pst. of its CO2 emissions. It will be an additional cost of importance, and it will be an additional cost that other EU businesses will not have. So it's a strange opening. It is nonsense that Norway is bound here by the Kyoto Agreement and therefore has to do so, as some try to hide behind. There are no other countries in the EU doing so in the same way. In all other EU countries, there is some kind of free allocation of allowances to new industries. Several companies come out more reasonably. NorFra Kalk, who is now under construction in Trøndelag, has announced that with the quota egigi, which is now adopted, the holding will probably never be opened. So you get an empty shell. SMA Magnesium is a world-class limestone plant that has invested heavily in the reduction of NOx, sulphur, mercury and particulate matter. And as we could read in Rana Blade yesterday, the local workers' party representative was horrified that a climate quota law could be adopted that was so unfortunate. Then I see that the Government in the emergency work is trying to fix this through a proposal in the hall. It is really unheard of that a rapporteur makes proposals in the last second. Let's hope that they save that company, but there are many other companies on the list that won't get the same help – maxit Leca, for example, who had production on Rälingen and Borge, have structuralized, lost the allowances where they've put down, and don't get quotas where they're increasing production. Last Thursday you were here in Stortinget and were very excited that now there could be activity in Luteland. Yes, what are they going to do in Luteland? Well, it's industry, and they want natural gas. There will be CO2 emissions from that activity. That activity does not receive CO2 allowances under the climate allowance law adopted here. This is the same thing as giving a death sentence on Luteland. I especially want the Center Party to be happy to communicate it in that county. Norway is, as I said, the only country that does not grant quotas for new activities. It's self-imposed restrictions that only hurt you. The extra cost is 565 million. kr, and some might say – yes, but in the absence of allowances we have to do it that way. The problem is that there is no shortage of allowances. The State is likely to hold at least 6 million allowances, equivalent to 6 million tonnes of CO2. So it's twice the need we have to be able to allocate to new industries and to extended activities for existing ones, so that we get competitive conditions in line with the EU. Then the state will still have approx. 3 million allowances left to sell. Then we see that the Council of State on questions from the Committee says – no, they require – that this should be revenue-neutral to the Government, so that when the Government loses revenue by purchasing quotas from the oil industry instead of paying the CO2 tax, the Government will take in the lost revenue by selling allowances that they could otherwise allocate to the industry. What we see here is a socialist government at its worst, which only thinks of income and does not think of industry or the environment. It is an incomprehensible industrial policy, especially in connection with the industrial power marking that was in the lawn outside here on Wednesday, where the red-greens once again trod it flat. It was really just a sponsorship mark, because it was only the red-green ones who were allowed to keep their posts. Then an industrial power regime was promised, because then it was very important to secure the industry. So now you're adopting a climate quota law that has the opposite effect. Then we don't see anyone from the union who's in the lawn, because it's about protecting their own. The Climate Allowance Act suggests that the Kyoto commitments will be met and the power balance will be improved by slow but safe sacrifice to industry. It's the only real consequence of what's now being adopted. The Progress Party will therefore promote a number of legislative proposals to ensure Norwegian industry. We will provide new and expanded businesses with climate allowances in line with existing businesses. We will extend the base period from 1998 to 2005 to provide a broader basis for assessing the number of allowances to be allocated to each holding. We want a security valve into the law to ensure that companies that have large deviations between allocated allowances and their quota obligations can actually apply for increased allocation and focus on the principle of norms, so that if the company is better than you can expect, they will not be the victims of a strict Norwegian quota regime. We say we have to have gas power plants with the best available technology, instead of having an incomprehensible text to rely on CO2 management. I notice that the Council of State, on questions from the Committee, refuses to specify what is meant by the sentence to rely on CO2 management. How can it be expected that the industry will make a single investment in gas power plants when not even the Council of State tells Stortinget what the legislation will be like? The Progress Party also proposes that it should not be possible to include new sectors in the law without having been within the Stortinget. When we in the law specify which sectors are to be covered by the climate quota law, regulations cannot supplement this. In that case, the whole structure for which sectors should be covered should have been regulated. You can't have anything in the law and then supplement the rest of the regulations. We also believe that it is unnecessary to have a specific penalty paragraph in this climate quota law. After all, it's a punishment clause in the pollution law, § 19 if I don't remember wrong. It'll hold. You must not go after companies that emit too much CO2 and punish them extra heavily with prison sentences. In this case, Norwegian industry should have received a reward and not a Christmas from Stortinget. They have continuously put in place large-scale measures in land-based industries. It has been approx. 10 million tonnes reduction in CO2 emissions since 1990, according to the Council of State. So they are more environmentally friendly than their international competitors, both in the EU and not least globally. The CO2 emissions in Norway per capita are constant. Yes, they've increased in the oil industry, but they've been reduced on the mainland. The reason why we have seen a total increase in Norway is that we have a larger population now than we had in 1990. We can't ignore that. According to the state councils, we released 11.7 million. tonnes of CO2 per tonne; the population. We're doing the same thing today, and we're going to do the same thing in 2020. Then one cannot come and say that Norwegian industry is so cruel – on the contrary. Norwegian industry shows that they have taken responsibility, and then one should not punish them. It's sad when the reward comes with the world's toughest quota system. There will be symbol policies when you only look at the national CO2 accounts in this case. One should incentivise the industry to establish itself in Norway. When you know that the Norwegian aluminium industry only emits a third of this amount of CO2 per. tonnes of aluminium produced by the competitors in Asia, one in the name of the environment should wish that a producer of aluminium produced as much as possible in Norway, in order to reduce the total emissions of the aluminium industry. Instead, the objective is not to establish new or expanded activities in Norway that emit significant amounts of CO2 that the Council of State writes to the Committee. It's the same thing as saying that Norway is going to appear to be the best in the world, and then the rest of the world is going to go down because of CO2, but at least it's not going to come out of Norway – instead of recognizing that there's going to be demand for aluminium no matter what we do in Norway, and then we have to take on a global responsibility and produce aluminium where it happens best. And then there's a logical flaw, no matter what the representative Kristoffersen is trying to explain away now in the line change. The existing process industry receives 100 pst. of its emissions covered. The reason for this, by the Government, is that it is not possible to make significant cuts in that industry. At the same time, however, if a new process plant is built in Norway, one expects them to be so stimulated that they do not receive CO2 allowances free of charge that they somehow need to figure out how to cope with zero emissions. Yes, existing process industries could make money to sell allowances if they manage to reduce their emissions by 2, 3, 4, 5 pst. But the industry that wants to establish itself in Norway, which likes to use the technology that reduces emissions by 5 pst, still has to cover its quota trade by 95 pst. trade. 95 pst. trade! And when the government here talks about the allowance price going to be around 200 kroner, we see that these are going to be unreasonable costs. So to gas power plants: the fact that the Council of State refuses to specify the realities and consequences of the Climate Act in terms of new gas power plants is unsustainable in this matter. When you look at what the State Council has written about Forest in response to the Committee, you can begin to wonder if the concession to Forest is still pending. There's a lot of strangely hidden in the details. I would like to see the concessionaires when they got the answer that was given by the Council of State. Finally, with regard to the government's handling of this matter: the case rapporteur said that Stortinget had got the time that was necessary. I think everyone who reads this setting will see that this is not the case at all. The government has been arguing about the climate allowance law for 20 months before it was finally submitted. Twenty months! This includes one month’s consultation with industry — during the Easter holidays — to deal with this. Then the government gives the Storting 20 days – after the pint – from it is released, to deal with this. When the Council of State in Political Quarter a few weeks ago was asked why it took so long, the Council of State replied that this is incredibly complicated. But the Storting must nevertheless be able to dig into this, carry out hearings, deal with it in the party organisations and make a quality-secured setting in 20 days! It is not credible when someone then says that Stortinget has got the time that is necessary. This is urgent work from end to end! And when even the rapporteur makes proposals in the Chamber, it underlines the claim. I also refer to the answers given to the Committee on a number of questions. The Council of State writes that she cannot respond within the given time limits. State council says she's referring to the climate announcement. But the climate notification has not yet been submitted. How in all days is the Storting going to be able to take into account the government's climate policy when we don't know what it is? On most issues, the government is unable to quantify or detail the consequences of the climate quota law. Then it is not useful to come and say that Stortinget has got the time that is necessary. In the end, a great many of the parties on the Stortinget and not least the environmental movement and media have the knowledge and the broad discussed possibility of bringing about a climate settlement on the Stortinget. No one fully knows what this climate agreement can consist of, because the matter has not yet been submitted by the Government, despite intense controversy over a long time. But is it not precisely climate policy that we are dealing with today? Isn't what we are dealing with today, one of the most important premises of climate policy for the next five years? Then a question can be asked: Has any attempt been made by the Government to enter into a climate settlement with one of the parties? No! No! To the extent that an opposition party is associated with the Government, it's either like a collective committee, that's completely uncontroversial, or it's because someone randomly agrees on some point of view. It's not because the government has given anything in any area. There is little evidence of a possible climate settlement in some direction, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e293	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposals he referred to. The President would point out that the use of the word ‘customs’ is not parliamentary. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e300	I must be allowed to quote a little from the introduction of the setting: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, points out that the global climate problem is the main environmental challenge we are facing, which is clearer and clearer evidenced by the reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. [[IPCC]] In this respect, will I ask the representative of the Progress Party to explain what global environmental problems are greater than the challenges now described as climate problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e310	If the representative Nordtun had read the whole setting and not just single sections, he would see that the Progress Party responded to the remark made by the government parties and supported by the others. There has been a meeting called Copenhagen Consensus, where one evaluated 10–15 of the major environmental challenges in the world, including: AIDS and the indoor climate in Africa – the representative of North Tun himself has been to Madagascar and seen it – because most of the cabins that don't have a pipe, and it kills people. Then he has actually assessed the costs and possibilities to do something about this. The climate did not necessarily come to the top – not to undermine the challenges facing climate change, but when the Progress Party does not take note, it has something to do with the fact that the Government has for 20 months been alarming about the importance of doing something about it. On the other hand, it has not been able to present its own case, while the Party for Progress has presented a Document No. Eight proposals for a comprehensive climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e317	I have the impression that the policy of the Progress Party in this area is in a sort of gradual change, as opposed to when the Stortinget in 2004 addressed the issue of the introduction of a testing scheme of quota purchases in Norway. At that time, both in proposals and in the debate – in which both the ETS and the Kyoto Protocol were voted against – the Progress Party showed that it was against this quota obligation law and the trading of allowances for greenhouse gas emissions. I see it this time as if the Progress Party is not voting against the law as such. Does this mean that the Progress Party is no longer in doubt as to whether climate change is at all man-made?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e324	The propulsion party is the only party on the Stortinget that dares to question established truths, whether they come from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change or from skeptics. I think it is a little sad that one in a climate debate only listens to the United Nations Climate Panel and does not listen to those who have alternative scenarios to what is happening. We know that there are also many scientific explanations that can prove why there are changes now. The point is that we are to take the Kyoto agreement seriously – it's at the bottom. We also said, when we dealt with the national test quota system, that we wanted to have such a system, but that the system had to be integrated with the EU, and it did not. So when we see the experience of this national quota system in 2005–2007, we see that 0.5 pst. the allowance obligation has been traded in an allowance system – or was approximately: 76 000 tons? It's so small that we can't call it a test system. This warned the Progress Party against when one did not integrate it with the EU, so we voted in part against what was then adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e331	It's a little sad that the Progress Party gets 15 minutes on the platform to talk about a climate issue, and then they're able to use time that way that they can't spend one minute talking about the challenges that the climate means to us all. Nor can they use one minute to talk about what is the Crown Example of the Advance Party that there is an environmental policy, namely that they have several times decided that the polluter should pay. For Ketil Solvik-Olsen, this case is probably not about climate issues or about the polluter paying. On the other hand, we are told in the loop that AIDS is a bigger environmental problem than the climate. I welcome the proposal of the Progress Party to deal with AIDS under the pollution law. I just want to repeat the question from Tore Nordtun: What other environmental problems does Ketil Solvik-Olsen see as a bigger challenge for humanity than the climate issue we are dealing with today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e340	The representative Sørensen is right in saying that AIDS is not an environmental problem. What I was going to point out was that Copenhagen Consensus took on board the greatest environmental and health challenges facing the world. I think people who die of AIDS and tuberculosis think it's as serious as they die of sulphur emissions. It is therefore important to look at the overall benefits of investment in health and the environment. I referred to the list from Copenhagen Consensus and should not repeat it. What I want to focus on, however, is that everyone in the Norwegian climate debate has for a long time expressed their concern and created a hysteria in the population. One has focused little on the concrete measures that actually contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. That's exactly what the Progress Party has put on, not to discuss and create a hysteria around this, but to come up with concrete solutions. The Progress Party has done so in connection with this climate quota law on how to get it into Norwegian industry. We have done so in Document No. 8:97, on how Norway is to meet its overall climate commitments, including national measures and technological developments. And then we hope that the representative Sørensen also supports it, instead of just talking about the climate as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e350	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e353	Let me first promote the suggestions that the Right and the others have, and those that we are alone about, in the position. This is, of course, a significant debate we have overtime in Stortinget today. There is no doubt that what is mentioned in the position – which is quite well represented by the rapporteur – is the greatest challenge for mankind: how should we deal with greenhouse gas emissions, not only nationally, but for the whole planet? We are probably in the situation that we have an overwhelming amount of evidence of what is happening both in the home country and abroad, what will be the consequences of the emissions that have already taken place, and what we are facing to face this threat. We have also received the report from the Low Emissions Committee, we have had time to study international reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and we have received the Stern report, which in many ways illustrates the choices we are facing. And the two choices are pretty easy to deal with. One is to wait and see, while the other is to act today. The right will in every way that we are going to act today, knowing that it is the only option that can be chosen. The second is that this will be the best, the most appropriate and the most sovereignly inexpensive form of solution. The Stern report states that trading today could provide a cost estimated at around 1 pst. of the national product of any country. The alternative will be to postpone action for 20 years, and then we face costs that represent 3-5 pst. of a country's gross domestic product. I think we have to take over the fact that the cost of dealing with anthropogenic climate emissions is going to become perhaps one of the largest, if not the largest, post on the state budget. Then we have to take this into account with the seriousness that this after all represents. I also think we are doing wrong in taking over the kind of knowledge that the Norwegian emissions are so modest, we only account for approx. 2 per million of global greenhouse gas emissions. In isolation, this right is if we want to operate within a kind of circuit championship in climate policy or a national competition in climate policy, but it's not where we are, nor is it where we can solve the challenges. Norway is a climate change host. There are few who can compete with us in emissions. Norway collects revenues, not from 2 per million of global greenhouse gas emissions, but from between 3.5 and 4 pst. sales of fossil fuels. This means that as a nation, we have a commitment not only to our own people, but to everyone else on whom we make generous money. This means that the Right has supported the Government on most points in the development of gradually stacking on the legs of a national climate policy. We have followed the Government's proposal, crown by crown, in terms of the challenge of managing CO2 capture at our gas power plants that are gradually turning, and the same in the process of resolving the handling and storage of CO2. We are calling for a larger amount of research in this field than the goodwill we have seen from the Government so far. In fact, we hope that a take-off will take place instead of a rest cutting in this area too, even if CO2 capture and storage are not permitted either in the EEA Directive or in the Kyoto Protocol. If Norway manages to solve the challenge of CO2 capture from gas power plants and the production of natural gas, we have done a great, great service to the world. We support the Government's proposals on climate objectives, and we also support, on the Right, the objectives set to over-achieve the Kyoto Protocol framework nationally. So the question, on which the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen was thoroughly involved in his post: Has the Stortingen now gained sufficient knowledge of what are the consequences of the proposals promoted by the Government overtime? I'm afraid the answer is no. This matter bears the mark of an enormous urgency. The SFT report, which was one of the basic documents for the government's work, was on my table yesterday. With regard to the complicated questions we have asked to the Government – only the Right alone has written about 30 different questions – we have received some good answers, but in most areas relatively approximate answers. It's not satisfying. I'm a little afraid that when, after fighting within the government and promoting a proposal of brutal overtime, presenting this as if Norway is the best in the class around the world, we are promoting more legislative proposals that are stricter than any other country can compete with. I'm not sure this is right. I believe we are light-years behind the EU. The EU is an institution that is driving these issues in the UN system, but also in implementing new policies that we can in many ways take more or less blueprints. Then I think it's a little embarrassing that in this area, too, we have chosen to stand outside the institution that's trying to do new work, whether it's in the United Nations system or in the last G8 meeting that took place in Germany. Let me just, having said that, say that the criticism that the Solvik-Olsen representative has promoted in this area, joins the Right. In what goes on at allocation level, knowledge and knowledge of those affected by the quota system, it is also strongly criticising the fact that most of those affected by these proposals hardly get to know what this means before the directive and the law come into force. It just illustrates how late we are in Norway in this field. We distinguish teams with the Government on these issues in that we do not want to punish businesses and businesses that have expanded their activities after 31 December 2001. We do not want to penalise newly established enterprises, knowing that we are in principle on very thin ice when it comes to allowing a law to become retroactive until 1 January 2002. No one who was established then could know that in 2007, in June, they were to be hit and punished for coming on the wrong side of a turn of the year. There is also, in the Right's view, a totally crazy climate policy, well aware that it is always the last establishment that takes place, making use of the best and most widely used technology, including in the field of greenhouse gas emissions, that is available. So these companies are that the government today, with more or less open eyes, wants to punish. It is then quite relevant to ask – a single company’s name – that in a very difficult competitive situation, the decision in the United Kingdom can actually make it possible today that companies that, perhaps on a case-by-case basis, operate with the best-known technology in their area have to move out of the country and that they will then have a greater tendency to choose another energy carrier than one in Norway. And then maybe you can hit your chest and say, well, this will strengthen the national climate accounting. It'll obviously do that. The Norwegian industry, which is the best class in the world in this area, can be reduced to Norway, and national figures are strengthened. But I also think the Council of State and the Red-Green parties have to ask themselves the question: what is the climate accounting in the sum of Norwegian companies getting a click through this decision, which makes them fall into knee-drenched and have to make decisions about either closure or relocation? This is going to be a big minus in the total climate accounting. In the end, I just want to say that I believe that the proposal presented by the government parties today only illustrates that you finally start to get to call your feet what might happen to some companies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e395	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e401	The representative Ivar Kristiansen underlined in an exemplary way and well documented the seriousness of the man-made climate change that we face. That was wise speech, and this is also reinforced by the fact that the Right is in our comments where we say that in principle we are opposed to distributing free allowances. But – that’s what happens, and that’s what is inconsistent – the Right promotes alone, and, in part, together with the Progress Party, proposals that erode the necessary measures to put in place climate-saving conditions. Then I have to ask the representative Kristiansen: what is the essence of the Right Climate Policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e408	The essence of the Right Climate Policy is that we have a policy that in Proveny does not differ from government parties and government proposals in terms of emissions. We have containment in relation to what we are proposing, which takes into account extensions after 2001, or new start-ups that we are then taking from the so-called free quota of 6 million tonnes per year that the Government has made available. In addition, we believe that decommissioning in Norway to save around 3 million tonnes annually could lead to doubling emissions in the form of relocation of Norwegian industry. I share Mr Kristoffersen's view of this with free quotas. We would rather have seen that there were no free allowances at all, but we are dealing with the EU system, and that we cannot, of course, give Norwegian competitive activities impossible framework conditions in relation to competing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e415	The power situation in Central Norway is known to be under stress, and significant new power generation needs to be put in place. A lot of people who know the power sector say that gas power plants are the only thing that can give enough volume new power within a reasonable time horizon and at a reasonably acceptable cost. At the same time, it is known that CO2 cleaning should be available at the earliest in 2012, given that the government's wishful thinking is turning on. The only power project, which is on the Fräna in More and Romesdal, and which would like to be realized before the time – The Tent Goods have been exposed – it will be without CO2 cleaning. In the right-hand proposal, they say that quota servers for the allocation of new gas power should be based on purification. Then the question is, what does the Right add that something should be based on purification? It was impossible to get the government to answer that, but can the Right answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e430	The representative of Solvik-Olsen probably knows quite well that the right has been a driver for many years to put in place Norwegian gas power plants. We have not required CO2 cleaning from day one for the projects that have been launched, whether we are talking about the "Tjeldbergodden", Forest, or those in use in Hordaland. I can also refer to Snow White etc. The goal, of course, is from the Right that the technology that can take account of CO2 capture and eventually also storage, we have to put in place sooner or later. There we are with the Government both in terms of the rate of allocation and the rate of objectives. Of course, we believe that natural gas from gas power plants in Norway is much better solutions than when the Government comes sailing with its mobile, highly polluting gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e443	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e446	I agree with the good report that the rapporteur has given on this matter. I want to take exactly the same approach as him, namely that we are dealing with a matter that concerns the greatest environmental challenge humanity faces. When you study Antarctic ice core samples, which is quite fascinating that you can do technology, you can see that the CO2 content of the atmosphere has not been higher in 650 000 years. So we need 650,000 years back in time to have the CO2 content of the atmosphere that we now have. We can also see that the relationship between temperature increases and the CO2 content of the atmosphere has always been present, and that the historical level we have now is already difficult to deal with. Therefore, strong instruments are needed for rapid conversion, not just by Norway, but by the world as a whole, to meet those challenges. I am pleased with what the representative Ivar Kristiansen from the Right said in his post, that perhaps we should get used to the fact that getting rid of the climate problems will be one of the biggest expenditure items on the state budget. In spite of climate change, in any case, we have to think about getting as much money back as we can for the money we invest, in terms of emission reductions. Contaminants must pay! It is a principle that the whole Storting has joined, and we have to do things as cost-effectively as possible. The problem is often that when we are going to make concrete statements that polluters have to pay, the instruments are tough and sometimes unpopular. We know today that the allocation of free allowances reduces the cost-effectiveness of an allowance system, and it merely cleanses a bit of the polluter-pays principle. However, we have chosen to work towards the EU's quota system in order to have a fair transition, a good transition, also for industry. However, in some areas, we have chosen to be more climate friendly than the EU has managed to be in its quota system, also in order to be able to participate and point to what will happen after 2012. The government is quite clear – and it is important – that after 2012 we will not have free allowances. That is why all industry must now start the transition so that we can meet the demands that are made after 2012. Nobody should come and say, "We didn't know this." That's why the government has said it clearly in the proposition. At the same time, of course, we need to look at what is happening in the EU system, i.e. working against the EU system to make it the same as there, that there should be no free quotas in the EU system after 2012. I support, of course, the proposal that Mr Asmund Kristoffersen presented initially, linked to the company called SMA Mineral. For us, it has an environmental justification. The proposal shall take into account that if companies use excess gas from enterprises in the vicinity that are not subject to allowances or do not have a charge, they shall be credited with allowances for it. If it hadn't been profitable to falsify those emissions, and it would give completely wrong environmental incentives in the system. Therefore, there is an environmental justification for doing what we are doing today, which will have consequences for SMA Mineral. There is another important thing in the quota system as it is presented today, which I would like to make, and that is that the offshore activity, i.e. the emissions in the oil industry, is not allocated free allowances. The government has also said – and it is important – that the CO2 tax should be passed on to the oil industry. In this way, there will be both allowances and charges related to offshore emissions. This means that it is not possible to imagine that the costs of climate change emissions on the base are going to fall, but they are going to continue at about the same level as today. Finally, let me say, conversion is not painless. It is not by chance that the film of Al Gore is called «An Uncomfortable Truth» because conversion is difficult and also requires political courage. Mikhail Gorbachev used a picture of what happened when the Soviet Union was dissolved. He said it was to compare with a train, and it was to come early to get a good place on the train. So is climate change. The air conditioning's going. Those who change faster will have the best place on that train in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e482	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e485	It is such that the EU ETS Directive provides that sectors other than those included in this amendment may also be included in the allowance scheme during the 2008-2012 period. So this is going to happen to the government through a regulatory home. The Progress Party believes that this is such an important matter that it should rather be presented to the Stortinget rather than being a matter for bureaucracy and the Government. So my question to the representative Heidi Sørensen is: what really is the reason why such an important matter, such as the implementation of other sectors during the period, should not be presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e490	In this area, the Climate Change Act is a power of attorney, so in the law there is a power to include other sectors as well. The proposal sets out one sector that may be applicable – not others – and that is the transport sector. An investigation will be carried out to see whether it would be appropriate to be able to integrate that sector. This is what we've taken into account. Otherwise, the climate allowance law is strictly regulated and, in any case, all sectors that are included, should be – but not likely, except as mentioned above – comply with the rules laid down in the law. There will in a way be no competition problem for those sectors because the legislation as such is in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e495	Both the Christian People's Party and the SV have a strong commitment to sustainable development and climate policy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions. We need solutions that have wide political upswing in the Storting for a long time. That's why the Christian People's Party would like to have the SV and the Government on a climate settlement in Stortinget. A good contribution is that SV now supports the use of market mechanisms to reduce climate emissions. The SV has not always done that. The quota law uses the market and Norway is to become part of the EU quota market. The EU is committed to limiting the use of the project-based Kyoto mechanisms, and the representative Sørensen has said to the Dagbladet that the Government should not seek exemption from this. Is SV behind the representative Sørensen in this view? And is the representative Sørensen stuck to the statement in the newspaper?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e501	There is a sort of perception that SV has been opposed to using market mechanisms on environmental issues. It was despite all the SV who agreed with the Bondevik government about the previous allowance law, so there should be no doubt about this. On the other hand, when we've been critical, it's been if there's unregulated things in the allowance markets, for example. in relation to the CDM mechanism, for which a United Nations report has just been submitted. These are things we've been busy about. Then they say 20 pst. of what has happened so far are not real emissions cuts. When we act abroad, it is extremely important that it actually represents emissions cuts, and that we work as best we can to ensure those mechanisms. Then we have been busy taking significant amounts – at least half, as stated in the SV programme – of emission reductions at home. The same has been true of the Christian People's Party. The EU regards all allowance purchases internally as national emissions. Therefore, the situation is quite different for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e506	The representative Sørensen stressed that the Norwegian scheme was stricter than that of the EU system. In some areas, it’s right — in one area, at least, it’s not right. The previous question was referred to, namely the provision that 10 pst. all emissions over free allowances can be paid with measures in developing countries, which is an EU-based scheme. In the setting, it is the Left and Christian People's Party that emphasises in a note that this system should not be put into effect, because we expect that once again it will lead to those who have quotas dropping cheaper and thus undermining the pressure in the transitions we want to achieve. Does the representative Sørensen of SV agree with the considerations of the Left and Christian People's Party in its comments on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e513	I have considerable sympathy for part of the Christian People's Party and the Left writes in these comments. I think they underestimate one thing relating to the EU ETS that is different from how we want to deal with it, and that is that the EU within Kyoto is a bubble. This means that all EU-country allowance trading will be considered as national emissions in the EU, while all EU-country allowance trading in Norway will be considered as out-of-date. Therefore, the EU has this special scheme related to CDM projects and to JI projects. If we were to do the same thing, we also had to do it when purchasing allowances in EU countries. It would be pretty complicated. I still think it is important to stress that we are working hard to ensure that all CDM and all JI are well documented. I am also not sure that it is right that they are going to be the cheapest allowances in the future, but that the price is going to fall below what is the ceiling on EU quota prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e522	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e525	Climate change has been better demonstrated than ever before, and we see global warming being affected by human activity. The good thing about this is that we can also do something about it. Whatever we do now, we get a temperature increase in the next decades between two and three degrees. We don't know how nature will react to it, nor do we fully know the consequences for our way of life here in Norway. But then both scientists and public investigations tell us that we can take measures to stop the temperature rise in the long term. The earlier we start, the cheaper and simpler it is. The establishment of a greenhouse gas allowance market is such a measure. Quota trading enables us to make industry and businesses invest environmentally friendly. We can cost-effectively reduce climate emissions. The challenge is that we not only think cost-effectively in the short term, but also think in the long term. The Christian People's Party believes the polluter should pay. It also means paying for CO2 emissions. But it is reasonable to give industry time to convert to more environmentally friendly production. That is why, in the current climate allowance law, we have granted free allowances. This Christian People's Party will continue for the years 2008 to 2012. We then agree with the Government, which will work to ensure that the EU-wide industry will have to pay for CO2 emissions after 2012. It is appropriate to link the Norwegian quota market to the Union market from 1 January 2008. As a result, today's legal proceedings in Stortinget have gone very quickly. The policy assessments have taken place under time pressure, and it has been busy in formulating good alternative solutions. The government must take responsibility for that. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party has come to the conclusion that we will support the main features of the Government's proposal for quota law. We agree to tighten the law to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. One consequence is increased costs for industry and a European quota market is likely to increase electricity prices for citizens from the new year. We believe the population will accept this to help stabilise global warming. The Christian People's Party believes it is right to tighten up the Government's quota policy by not seeking exemptions from the EU ETS Directive restricting the use of the Kyoto mechanisms. We believe that the bulk of the quota trade should take place in the EU area and that we should not trade cheap allowances from elsewhere. The economists would disagree with such reasoning. But here we agree with the Prime Minister's teacher at the university who says that economics must also be assessed ethically. Given the desire for a reasonable burden-sharing, it is important that we reduce rich countries' own emissions rather than buy ourselves from such measures by purchasing from China and developing countries. We believe that the EU ETS is wise on this point. While we are tightening up the Government's quota policy, we want to add more dynamism to the conversion of industry into the law itself. The Christian People's Party proposes a transfer rule whereby businesses can transfer emission allowances from one installation that is shut down to another that they operate. This facilitates faster modernisation than the Government, which will remove the quota at the time of its closure. This will result in the continuation of the installation in order to save jobs, and it will wear down equipment rather than investment in environmentally friendly and modern equipment and production. The Christian People's Party will also have access to correcting errors based on free allowances by being able to compensate for abnormal periods in base years 1998–2001. The Christian People's Party believes it is right to include CO2 management installations in the allowance law, and we support that it is set by allowances for this. We also believe it is important to have a predictable law that clearly signals that it is to be paid for greenhouse gas emissions. It will speed up industrial change. Therefore, we cannot support proposals for a quota reserve for new activities and the expansion of production capacity. The Christian People's Party believes that we should at least meet our commitments in the Kyoto agreement, which means that we must start reducing our emissions now. I refer to the already busy proposals in the vote to which the Christian People's Party is co-rapporteur. Then we have received a proposal on the table from the President-in-Office. We think, like several other speakers here, that it's kind of funny to put this on the table now, not least when it comes from the sitting government parties. But we choose to support the proposal as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e555	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e558	The world is facing dramatic climate change. If we are to succeed in reducing emissions to a sustainable level, we need to find forward-looking and effective solutions at all levels of society. One of the most important measures that politicians can take is to create a framework for business that ensures understanding of the environmental problem and focusing on environmental solutions are at the root of all planning and investment. The introduction of an allowance system is one of several important means of ensuring this. The system of allowances proposed by the Government is essentially a continuation of the early quota system during the trial period 2005-2007. In the introduction of the allowance system proposed in this amendment to the climate allowances law, the scheme will be extended to several activities and the Norwegian allowance market will be linked to the EU allowance market. The quota system will cover about 40 pst from 2008. of Norwegian climate emissions. The principle on which the allowance system is based is such that when a market for emissions is created, greenhouse gas reductions will be implemented where reasonable. The various establishments will therefore have an economic incentive to find the best technical and practical solutions to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. The Government has proposed that energy emissions be allocated allowances equivalent to 87 pst. average emissions in 1998–2001. Allowable process emissions are allocated free allowances equal to 100 pst. average emissions. This means of allocating free allowances has been chosen because more technical and practical solutions exist to reduce emissions from energy production than from process emissions. In doing so, we can ensure that the system takes into account the fact that reducing emissions from energy use where solutions such as energy efficiency improvement and transition to renewable energy are easier than reducing emissions from the process, which will often mean reducing production. It is proposed not to distribute free allowances to the offshore petroleum activity. At the same time, it is proposed that the offshore business reduce its CO2 charge costs to a level similar to that achieved by the industry in the purchase of climate allowances. The centre party is clearly of the opinion that this reduction in CO2 tax should be based on the costs that the offshore business can demonstrate that it has actually incurred in purchasing allowances. It will be essential to ensure that the economic incentives to reduce offshore emissions are maintained. In its system, the EU has chosen to define all reductions achieved through the allowance system as domestic measures and has set a limit on the share of allowances purchased by individual businesses that may come from the international quota market. Norway has chosen to equate the measures implemented through the EU ETS and the international allowance market. At the same time, we have defined all the reductions implemented through these mechanisms as international measures. Where this definition of domestic and foreign actions is underpinned, it is not natural to establish a limit on the share of allowances available to Norwegian enterprises in the international market. Norway has therefore requested an exemption from this rule limiting the purchase of international allowances. In the development of new, comprehensive instruments to manage societal development, there are, of course, several dilemmas to be faced. In such situations, it is not possible to satisfy all the considerations, which some in this case will try to achieve in this case. Nor is it desirable to satisfy all the concerns. The whole starting point for the development of a climate quota system is to create a change, to cut climate pollution. But we are also aware that there will always be some unfortunate outcome of developing general rules. Some of these outcomes we would like to be ahead of us. At the same time, we believe that the totality of the system proposed today is good enough for us to recommend the Storting to join it. It has also been important for the Centre Party to ensure that this law is dealt with by Stortinget in time for Norwegian business to be able to participate in the system in line with EU industry from the date of the introduction of the system. It has therefore been important to promote a total solution now ensuring that the law can come into force as soon as possible. Criticisms have been raised against the implementation of measures in less developed countries and the way in which the system of these mechanisms is designed. The central party believes that it is important that rich countries take the majority of their future emissions obligations in their own country. At the same time, the flexible mechanisms, when properly used, could maximise the cost-effective implementation of climate commitments while ensuring the development and reduction of emissions from poorer countries. Norway has had an offensive role in international climate negotiations to ensure that good and strict rules are drawn up on the projects approved in these international systems. These mechanisms underpin the design of the Kyoto Agreement and will be an important part of the implementation of the commitments. Norway should therefore continue to play an offensive role in ensuring that these rules become as strict as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e584	The EU ETS suggests that new enterprises and the extension of existing enterprises may also be allocated free allowances after 31 December 2001. But the government has not added up to it in Norway. So there is more to it than the European Union. If we do not want to allocate free quotas to new industrial start-ups in parts of Norwegian industry, does the representative Brerk not see that this will lead to new investment in Norwegian industry being halted altogether, that this is bad industrial policy and poor district policy, by getting a flagging off of industry from Norway to other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e591	One of the main reasons for introducing this climate quota legislation is to change the behaviour of businesses. It is also the basis of the proposals put forward by the Government, which now have the support of the government parties. It is also important, as mentioned in my speech, to stress that important considerations will always be faced in the development of a system designed to create such a change in behaviour and to distribute scarce resources. It is not desirable to meet all wishes and considerations in such a process. Such balances will always give rise to an unfortunate outcome. I would like to stress that we would like to find a solution and be part of the results this has received for the new industry, but because it has been important to maintain the base period for the allocation of free allowances, it has not been possible to reach an agreement here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e600	When Norway joined the Kyoto agreement to reduce climate change emissions to 1 pst. above the 1990 level, there was agreement in Stortinget that no use should be made of the forest management mechanism. The government now signals that they want to use forest management to overfulfill Norway's Kyoto commitments by approx. 1.5 million tonnes. Why couldn't the Senter Party use forest cover to meet the commitments when we joined the Kyoto agreement, while now it will be used to overcomply with the agreement? Is it to facilitate business conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e606	It has been raised beyond doubt that forest management is particularly important in the context of the climate problem. Forest management could have great potential for binding climate emissions. That is why it is important to take account of it in the context of the climate policy we are now adopting. It is important to take into account the elements relating to forests, because if you take full account of them, you will be overcomplying with all the climate commitments Norway has. We think it's right to have a constraint here, and the goal of 1.5 million tons seems to be the right level.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e611	Based on the last answer from the representative, it seems that he does not fully understand what he is talking about. It is the Kyoto agreement that has imposed a limit of 1.5 million tonnes. In the previous period, both the Bondevik II Government and today’s three red-green parties opposed to including forest management as part of the quota mechanism to comply with the Kyoto Agreement. Everyone was against it. Only the Progress Party said that it was positive to include forest. Now we see that the red-green ones, after they even got in position, have turned around and will include forest mowing – we think, at least. At least it is in the motion for a resolution, even though the Council of State wrote to the committee that it has not yet been decided. What you're saying is that you're not going to use forest cover to deliver on the Kyoto agreement, but you're going to use forest cover to overfill the Kyoto agreement. So it's not moral to use forest cover to fulfill the agreement, but it's moral to use it to overcomply with the agreement. What is the difference between an allowance used for overfilling and an allowance used to discharge the contract itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e618	As I mentioned in my previous reply, it is particularly important to take into account that forest management is an important element in meeting climate obligations. Taking it into account as part of the Kyoto agreement, we believe that the Central Party is right. It is in line with the decision of the Central Party at the national meeting, and we stand by it. The reason for not wanting to go any further in this context is that if all countries were to use the forest fully in the context of climate commitments, no focus would be given to measures that have domestic impact. We also consider it important to include measures in addition to forest policy that can have domestic impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e623	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e626	The climate challenge is the greatest challenge of our time. It requires political leadership. It requires offensive climate policies, it requires willingness to convert and to contribute at home in addition to the measures to be taken internationally. The challenge we face requires a comprehensive policy. It is therefore a problem that the Stortinget now submits the allowances law, but not the action plans with which it had promised to come to Stortinget during May. If we had got the action plans and the quota law at the same time, we would have had the opportunity to see this in the context in which it should have been seen. I regret that the internal disunity and strife that have been in the Government is hampering efforts to bring about an overall approach to climate policy. This also means that in this area we cannot have a leading role internationally, and be the country of the government that is said to have ambitions to be. The law of allowances came so late to Stortinget that many thought it should not have been treated. The Committee has gone a long way in compensating for the imprudence of the Government. I want to praise the committee and the various fractions that have helped us to achieve goals. The main reason why we have carried this out as we have done is the consideration of the actors affected by the ETS, who are going to cooperate with the EU system. For the Left, it is a fundamental principle that the polluter should pay. It is the polluter who shall bear the costs of the emissions that are. The alternative to the polluter paying is that the bill is passed on to others. For the period 2008 to 2012, the Left is open to modify this principle. It is linked to our desire to adapt to the EU system and to take into account those exposed to competition. However, there is a fundamental prerequisite for this transitional period. It is that after 2012, a system will be set up to fully cover the costs of its emissions. It is important that the Government actively works towards the EU in order to have a system based on these principles, and that, at the same time, both towards the EU and Norwegian actors, it is clear that after 2012, the polluter pays should be taken into account. Such a starting point will provide the best competitive starting point for those businesses which are most rapidly and effectively adapting to such a future polluter-pays principle. On that basis, the Left disagrees with the regime of the Government, in the sense that there are some companies that are dropping cheaper than before. The government also proposes to be less ambitious than the EU in the use of project-based Kyoto mechanisms. These are measures that are likely to be significantly cheaper than intra-EU trading. The EU system is based on limited use of this mechanism, and the Left is quite clear that Norway should be at the same level as the EU. The main picture of the setting is that the Left joins the proposals that the Government has, but that at some points we go further than the Government adds. The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen pointed out in his statement that the Left does not have divergent legislative proposals. In the case of disagreement on the EU, i.e. to seek greater scope for action than the EU Member States have for the whole of project-based mechanisms, there is no need for legislative changes to be able to express that view. So that's the basis for saying that the Left is something tighter in its arrangement than the Government. On the other hand, the Progress Party and the Right stand with a more modest position, while the Christian People's Party is both on points that go on the modest side and are somewhat more restrictive than the Government. It is important to get a well-functioning allowance system that results in reductions, and the experience so far with the allowance system is not unconditionally positive. In conclusion, I would like to say that there are some people who want a proposal for the allowance law that makes the least possible changes. The point of the quota law and the policy we are about to pursue in this area is that we want to change. We want smaller emissions. We want to stimulate those who are based on a sustainable principle, not those who pollute. Therefore, this is a foretaste of a system that comes from 2012 and is fully costing the polluter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e652	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e655	Norwegian industry is among the world's most environmentally friendly and has in recent years taken environmental action that works. Among other things, the Norwegian aluminium industry emits less CO2 than its competitors. Left writes in a note that they're all alone that it ‘is unfortunate that the Government has put forward a scheme where it becomes cheaper for some industrial companies to pollute’. This isn't exactly right. It may seem that the Left really wants the future industry out of the country – with the global pollution it leads to. What solution does the Left have to combine environmental and Norwegian industrial development considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e674	It's just wanted to take into account the industry that makes us go for the main scheme that the Government has here. At the same time, we make it clear that after 2012, the cost is borne by the polluter. I understand that it is also the government's position. So here we're on the same main position. What makes me a little worried is that the question could indicate that even after 2012, one will deviate from what is the principle, namely that there is a polluter to pay. I hope that the debate here will clarify that it is not the government's position. In response from the Ministry of the Environment to the Committee, it appears that the provisions of the quota law impose the same burden on industry as before. But it is also clear in this answer that there are individual enterprises, individual enterprises, that get a much easier arrangement than they had before. In the view of the Left, it is a poor starting point for creating a tighter regime that some companies are getting away with it more easily than before. The minimum should be that one is at least at the level you now have, and preferably a tighter arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e681	The President understands that representatives are eager to speak, but will ask that representatives do not speak until the President gives them the floor. [[The representative of Kvassheim took the word before the president announced it.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e684	I almost got excited when I heard the previous question. One could almost believe that, with her approach in this matter, she was a member of the Progress Party. The representative of Kvassheim has been talking about smaller emissions. Less emissions are important. It is important to stimulate smaller emissions, which should be as strict as possible. It'll be like asking an older man to take a box of Viagra instead of a tablet, thinking that more gives better results. The question to the representative Kvassheim is: if one focuses so much on not allocating free allowances – because it gives the best incentive – will one stand firm on that principle regardless of whether the EU does the same or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e693	The left will assume that the polluter will pay. And we're assuming that it's Norwegian policy after 2012. Among other things, I heard at the post of Heidi Sørensen, which I saw as a clear description of the same position. And I'm assuming she's in line with the Government on this issue. We have not said that we want the strictest possible system. Then we had not gone for the scheme that is now being presented. But we want a system that is so strict that it is moving towards reducing climate change emissions. What's going to be exciting to see is what position the Progress Party has in 2012, when we're going to have a new system, because if the Progress Party moves as much as they've been doing this last year – from not recognising the problems at all and not seeing the need for action now to be involved in some sort of arrangement at least – I think there may be opportunities for a party to participate in some of the 2012 that one today strongly argues against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e705	I record that Gunnar Kvassheim and the Left here unreservedly join the quota proposition that we have made, without promoting any amendments, and it involves the allocation of some allowances free of charge. I'm a little surprised, because Gunnar Kvassheim argued that we shouldn't let those who have already reduced their emissions, for example. Norcem, few allowances were higher than what they already have. And that's what I'm jumping over, because it's a contradiction with the other Gunnar Kvassheim said, that we should introduce those who make the transition, and that those who make the conversion as fast as possible should get the best out of it. A system like what we are putting up to now will just ensure equal treatment for those who take the emission reductions early, and those who have pushed it forward in time and waited to take the emission reductions up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e710	This is a system applicable for the 2008-2012 period. We want a system that gives all the incentives to make further reductions in the future and that does not reward reductions that have been made in the past. We need further reductions in order to achieve climate policy objectives. It is wrong as the SV representative describes, that we unreservedly join the Government's arrangement. We have said that a significant reservation is that from 2012 this should be replaced by a system based on the polluter-pays. We have said that we are giving clear advice, as some from SV have said to the media, that they also do, that the government does not take advantage of the possibility it now seems to want in relation to the EU system, of getting more than 10 pst. for these mechanisms on the outside of the EU system. We have also said that we do not want to have gas power plants in this system. We have made that point in our remarks, but we have not promoted changes in the law. We don't think it's natural to discriminate between gas power plants and other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e717	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e720	We are at a crossroads in climate policy. This spring's reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have shown us clearly that climate change is underway and that it is mainly due to human activity. It's become impossible to deny the seriousness. This insight now sinks into Norway as in other countries. Climate challenges require immediate action. If we are to prevent the average temperature from rising by more than two degrees, global emissions need to decrease by 50-80 pst. by 2050. The emissions of industrialised countries need to go further in order to allow for acceptable development in the poor countries. Norwegian climate policy must therefore point forward towards a low-carbon society. This is a necessary conversion, and a fully possible conversion, but we can't expect it to happen completely without pain. In this perspective, it is quite reasonable that climate is the theme that the Government spends most time on a day. A key element of the new climate policy is the quota system. This is the first stage. In a short time, we will also present the Climate Communication, which will provide a broader presentation of the challenges we face, and of the policy that the Government will pursue nationally and internationally to achieve our ambitious climate goals. We believe that we have put forward a proposal for a quota system which is the best in Europe. It is best because it provides good incentives for lower emissions of those subject to allowances. It has the lowest number of free allowances in Europe, while taking due account of jobs and districts. The quota system will also make an important contribution to our implementation of the commitments under the Kyoto Protocol for the period 2008 to 2012. We want to work with Europe also in relation to quota trading. The government has taken hold of this from the accomplice. We have opened up to include the ETS Directive in the EEA Agreement. We are negotiating with the EU Commission, Iceland and Liechtenstein in order to find a solution that allows us to propose this offensive quota system and which is also compatible with the EEA Agreement. This has proved to be demanding and took much more time than we could have wished. In the longer term, the government wants a wider quota system and invites the Stortinget to give its opinion on this. In the proposition, we follow the minimum EU ETS directive. The inclusion of the offshore sector, the wood processing industry and a few more energy plants makes the system three times as large as it is today. We also want to include CO2 management and emissions from fertiliser production, but realise that it is not appropriate to include the transport sector within the framework of the ETS Directive. The inclusion of other businesses is brought back to us in the climate notification. The allocation combines environmental and employment considerations. The proposal provides an introduction offer to terrestrial enterprises with emissions over the period 1998–2001. The offshore sector must purchase all its allowances in the market. We are working to ensure that there will be no free allowances in Europe after 2012, and Norwegian businesses will have to prepare to do so. The government wants to remove the CO2 tax for land-based industry and to adjust the fee on the base. Overall, we can't see that this has significant negative business consequences, but it's obvious that some companies will get better and some are worse off than today. I note that the majority of the committee will amend the legal text so that it clarifies that special consideration can be given, among other things. to companies that are currently burning CO2, which is a waste product, for energy purposes, thus contributing to the reduction of emissions. I'm going to join in on this. The Government has also proposed a reserve of allowances for new gas power plants to be based on clean-up and for high-efficiency, concessional CHP plants. More detailed rules will be given in regulations, but the proposition describes what they are going to give as a result. [[The President clubs.]] We have not clarified with the EU whether we are bound by the ETS rules on the use of project-based Kyoto mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e752	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e755	I am pleased that we are now in the final phase of designing a comprehensive climate policy, and I am pleased with the attitude that exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e760	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e763	It is possible that the state council is pleased with the setting available. I don't think that's true for the industry. Once again, we hear the Council of State talk about the need for immediate action. Once again, we note that the government is unable to present its own climate report. The Council of State points out that the climate quota law is a central building block in this matter. I find that there is no broad agreement in Stortinget to support it. Then the State Council has announced that it will be zero free allowances to allocate after 2012. The same impression was given by the representative Sørensen from the same party. The question is: what happens if the EU continues to allocate free allowances to a significant extent, as they do today? What if the EU sees an end to free allowances for the EU means that their industry will lose in competition with the United States, China, India and other countries? However, will the Government then maintain that only one shall auction allowances after 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e772	The great seriousness of the climate challenges has sunk across all countries around the world. The EU is also committed to designing a future allowances system that takes the climate problems seriously. We have said quite clearly, and I have repeated it in this Chamber, that our starting point for talks with the European Union is that there should not be so-called free quotas after 2012. More and more environments, including within the EU system, are concerned with the same thinking. And then we get to be a driving force towards the EU to make sure that the government's starting point becomes reality in the EU even after 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e779	The Council of State started this over-tour by saying that, yes, we have the best climate policy across Europe, at least better than the EU. I think there's a lot of question marks behind that. At least the hearing around Ot.prp did not give. No 66 that impression. On the contrary, forces behind Norwegian Industry, which in the climate field is best in the world, which invests billions in renewable energy, say that this can lead to a halt to investment in Norway. Others claim that this proposal will lead to closure and relocation: Franzefoss, NorFra Kalk, Mokado and others. Does the Council of State not see that by implementing the Government's policy directly, she is contributing to both emigration and at the same time to increased climate emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e784	I want to hold on to what I also said from the Chair that Norway has the best quota policy in the climate challenges, because we have the strictest quota legislation. We need to be aware that the amendment of the law that we are presenting today is precisely about taking the climate problems seriously. Then we are in a situation where Norwegian climate policy should result in a future with a low-carbon society. We have to use different tools to achieve that. The changes that businesses have to make in the light of the changes in legislation we are making today will result in a low-carbon society. We believe that we have a good balance between taking into account the environment and taking into account jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e792	The Council of State stated in the post that climate policy is the most important thing for the Government at the moment, and it supports the Christian People's Party. It's a very important thing. But it's a matter that takes an incredible amount of time to deal with the government. It may have to do with complexity, but it probably also has to do with disagreement about the positions. We also see this in the work on the climate action plan, which allows itself to wait significantly beyond what we could have expected. So with regard to the allowance law that we are dealing with today, the government wants exemptions from restrictions on the use of the project-based Kyoto mechanisms. SV's environmental spokeswoman, Heidi Sørensen, recently said to Dagbladet that no exceptions should be sought. I assume it was SV's primary consideration. In a question now she made a taboo flight. What is the Minister's reason for ending up there?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e799	It is true that the EU has access to the use of project-based Kyoto mechanisms. It is not clear whether Norway should set such a ceiling. This is an area under negotiation between EFTA/EEA and Norway, and in any case it will apply to the quota system. It will not apply to the use of the mechanisms by the State. As I said, this is the subject of negotiations between EFTA/EEA and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e804	The Council of State said that in the negotiations with the EU, Norway’s starting point is that the polluter will pay after 2012. I want to give the Council of State the opportunity to state that Norway's policy will be that the polluter will pay after 2012. Earlier this spring, there was a discussion about when the climate action plan came to Stortinget. In the light of the uncertainty, I asked the Minister for the Environment a question in the Questionnaire, where she definitely and unreservedly made it clear that the climate action plan was to be presented to the Stortinget in May. It wasn't done. What we now know is that we do not get the climate action plan while the Stortinget is united. We don't have the opportunity to see things in context and make an overall arrangement as a basis for a climate settlement. Will the Council of State regret that she misled the Stortinget in her answer in the Questionnaire, and regret that this action plan did not come in May, as she promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e817	I would like to state that Norway's policy should be that the polluter pays after 2012, which I have also stated from the pulpit. My concern was that we should also be a driver against the EU system in order to have the same policy in the EU as Norway's policy, namely that the polluter should pay. As regards the climate action plan, the government’s climate policy is broadly complex. We have already done a number of things in climate policy. I just want to make a cross-reference: renewable energy, CO2 management in Mongstad, car tax conversion, etc. So we've done a number of things. The changes to the Climate Act, as we are doing today, are one important element, an important step. Then I am sorry that I have said May when it comes to presenting the climate action plan. It's coming in the spring, as I've also said many times. So that's June.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e829	Since the Council of State has had considerable challenges both in the process and in the change of line to answer the Committee's questions, I will do this very easily: Is it relevant for the Government to introduce 100 pst. Norwegian industry quota purchases after 2012 if the EU does not? I can repeat the question for security: Is it relevant for the Government to introduce 100 pst. Norwegian industry quota purchases after 2012 if the EU does not?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e836	The climate challenge is the world's most important issue. In the EU there is also a discussion, both in the EU system and in many environments in the different EU countries, about what is needed to achieve an effective climate policy, both in the EU and globally. Norway's policy, and I said that earlier today, too, is that the polluter pays. Norway should be a driver of climate policy, also towards EU countries, and we want EU countries to also pursue policies that make it polluter-pays. This is the future policy for us to have the opportunity to reduce global emissions by a total of 50-80 pst. by 2050. We need to pursue offensive policies. It is also something the EU countries would very much like to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e843	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e846	Clean air, clean seas and a balanced nature are among mankind's most basic common resources. We cannot leave to the market and free competition to take care of these common goods. Climate problems are the greatest environmental challenge of our time, while there is an environmental problem related to the fight against poverty. We're going to participate too fully in climate action, both at home and outside, to save the world we live on. But not everyone is at that stage, and that includes the Advancement Party. It is absolutely incredible that the Progress Party is out of the comment where the other parties in the Committee express great concern that global climate change can have serious ecological and health impacts, and that it will also have major economic consequences for the world community and most of all for the poor part of the world. The Progress Party has come no further than yet to discuss who is right in the scientific debate. We are others at this stage, and we believe that we should deal with the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, which definitely believes climate change is the biggest environmental challenge we are facing. I am pleased that the Right is not in the margins of the Progress Party, but that they recognise the climate problems and that the market cannot solve this task alone. This spring it has been speculated in percentages and climate action with different suggestions from different parties. This is what the Government with the Prime Minister at the head has set a finish line for. 10 pst. strengthening of Norway's Kyoto commitments until 2012, 30 p.m. commitments by Norway for CO2 emissions up to 2020 and 100 pst. Until 2050, this is the Government’s objective, and Norway will now take initiatives to ensure an international impact on such enhanced environmental policies. One of the measures that are essential for Norway’s success is climate quota trade, which is designed in line with the EU ETS Directive. The purpose of the allowance system is to bring down greenhouse gas emissions by paying the polluter. In this way, business is given an incentive to think about how they reduce emissions, so that their costs are reduced. But the government has been very aware that the allowance system will take into account outsourced businesses and districts. It should be such that the Norwegian industry exposed to competition has almost the same framework conditions as its competitors in the EU. I therefore hope that the EU will do the same for all Norwegian companies after 2012. In Norway, we have a few companies that are coming out badly when the quota system is introduced in 2008. They are mentioned in the proposition. These are in particular the lime and dolomite companies. I am therefore pleased with the proposal put forward today by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. At least it will help SMA Mineral in Mo in Rana. They use CO2 gas as an energy source from the neighbouring company Rio Doce Manganese Norway. This is excess gas from their production. This is therefore an environmental measure as the gas had otherwise been flared. Without this proposal, this company had an additional cost of 5.6 million. kr per. years, and there had been the hook on the door. Several questions were raised during the consultations on the sustainability of the allowances system compared to ESA. Special attention is paid to the discrimination between new and old production. No free allowances may be allocated to new production. Will this conflict with EU legislation? This should be clarified before the law is implemented so that existing production allocated to quotas is not assessed under unlawful State aid schemes. I am sure the Council of State has a good hand on this, because the quota system will be a good climate policy instrument. This government has set ambitious targets for the further policy on climate change and confirms Norway’s position as a priority country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e885	The Climate Ratio Act is part of a major and historic policy mix of this government – a new and environmentally friendly policy. Let me mention something. It's conversion of car charges technology effort for CO2 capture in Mongstad and Kårstø20 billion SEK in funds to invest in new renewable energy new energy requirements for building efforts on targeted assistance etc., etc. For this reason, the issue we are dealing with today, the climate quota law, is one of a number of issues that lead Norway in a new and more environmentally friendly direction. The climate quota law is ambitious. It has to be. It is Europe's most stringent environmental requirements that we are legislating here today, but at the same time we have a particularly well-balanced approach to food and the environment. It shows the consultation round, where the law got good approval. We have chosen not to operate with any quota reserve. This is strict. At the same time, however, we have a more liberal approach to exploiting the green development mechanism and the system of project-based Kyoto mechanisms, Joint Implementation, contained in the Kyoto Agreement, than the rest of the EU. This further underlines that the allowance law we are dealing with today is particularly well-balanced and well-designed. Someone has to pay for the pollution. We use the polluter pays principle to underpin our policies. This suggests that companies must take greater responsibility. The alternative is to shift the bill to taxpayers. I note that this is the right-hand side, especially the Progress Party, proposal for a solution in this setting. We have chosen a line where we allocate allowances free of charge based on historical emissions. The allocation period is 1998–2001. Energy emissions from eligible activities in land-based industries are allocated allowances equivalent to 87 pst. of the average emissions in 1998 to 2001, while emission allowances are allocated free of charge equivalent to 100 pst. on the same basis. Overall, this represents approximately 80 pst. of their emissions in 2005. The marketable allowances result in a continuous incentive for the companies to try to obtain clean-up during the quota period. This will lead to further technology development. I am very pleased about that, and I am convinced that this will happen in industry. We will also be working for a new and ambitious environmental agreement after 2012. This may be the most important thing we can do for the future environment. The government, with its objectives, has put itself at the forefront of international affairs with its ambitious objectives, which I have now partly been concerned with in my article. I hope now that an overall increase can stand behind our struggle for a new and ambitious international climate agreement under the Kyoto agreement. It's the most important thing in an international perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e928	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e932	For a young man who started his political commitment at the end of his teens just on the environment, it is fantastic now to be in the Storting and witness that the climate challenge, the environmental problems, the global challenges we face, to those degrees also set the agenda in the debates that are going on in the Storting. Last week we had revised the national budget for treatment here. There was a big environmental debate. Today we are dealing with the climate quota law. In the public debate, the only thing that is now being discussed is when the climate communication comes from the Government. Yeah, it's coming, I can confirm that. At all, the environment is in the high-seat. Several of the speakers have said that what we are now facing, perhaps is the world's greatest challenge ever. It has now been demonstrated emphatically by Stern, from the Low Emissions Commission in Norway, from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – with broad support from a global scientific community. So it's right that representatives of the Progress Party say that there are some single voices that speak for another course, that talk about other things. But then we have the choice: Who are we to trust? I choose to trust the great majority, which says that the probability is great that if we don't do anything, the consequences can be dramatic. I am pleased that what we have on the table today is Europe's most stringent legislation on trade in climate quotas in the industrial sector. At the same time, it is balanced with the business community in Norway, which is important in order to gain popular support around such an important measure as this. But I have to be allowed to comment on two of the critical voices – if we can call it that – namely, the opinion of the Right Party and the Advance Party on the matter here in the Chamber today. First to the Right, which has now until those degrees have been through a glide flight in this matter, from the leader, Erna Solberg, earlier in ours that climate would in no way be a matter now when we go against election fighting – she has corrected it, it is good – until she stands out in the VG that 2/3 of the greenhouse gas cuts are now to happen in Norway. And so here we experience in this important case, which concerns 40 pst. of the emissions in Norway, to add to a more relaxed regime than the Government envisages. Yes, the question to the Right has to be: what sectors are there to take the big 2/3 cuts, if we are to base a scheme that I think will be too relaxed in a large emissions sector in Norway? So to the Progress Party – finally. Yes, we do not get a good answer to why the Progress Party cannot join the very good general remark in the vote, where all parties, except the Progress Party, point out that ‘the global climate problem is the biggest environmental challenge we face, which is clearer and clearer documented by the reports of the United Nations Panel on Climate Change’. I would like to hear one more time why Ketil Solvik-Olsen and his men cannot stand behind this remark, and I should also like to hear about the environmental opposition in the Progress Party, with Solvik-Olsen at the head. When are we going to recognise the Kyoto agreement and be with the Government as a driving force towards the EU in order to have a stronger regime after 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e951	Finally, let me stress that the Progress Party is taking this climate debate seriously. We have noticed that the purpose of the amendments to the Climate Allowance Act is to limit national greenhouse gas emissions. In the light of available and up-to-date information on climate change and causality, the objective of limiting greenhouse gas emissions is both a right and an important political ambition. At present, conflicting information remains on whether climate change is significantly anthropogenic or whether changes can be explained by nature’s own cycles. However, we have received more and more factual information pointing to climate change and the fact that man-made greenhouse gas emissions are a contributing factor to a ongoing and long-term change in the global climate. More and more are for these reasons because of the perception that anthropogenic climate change is most real, and that humanity cannot in any way allow itself to gamble with these important issues. Consequently, as an individual nation, in many ways we are obliged to take the climate debate seriously, both on the basis of scientifically verifiable facts and in the light of the dramatic consequences of climate change in many countries. We should all realise that, as a country, and as part of the international community, we have barely faced a more demanding and challenging debate in the past than the question of how to deal with global climate challenges in the future. There is no time to lose today. Work must go on. This will not be free for any nation or any individual. But as for example: The Stern report concluded that it is much cheaper for the world community to act now than to adapt to climate change in retrospect. At the same time, Norway should not assume nationally more stringent obligations which send Norwegian industry and jobs out of the country, to other countries that will take over the production of the same goods, but to even higher environmental costs and with even more polluting industries. Introducing a more stringent national climate policy than that implemented in other countries is an unfortunate way of dealing with Norwegian environmental policies. This is strongly opposed to the Advancement Party. It must be clear that what we are doing in Norway alone about measures to limit our greenhouse gas emissions is and will be very marginal in a global context. For these reasons, it is extremely important to reach a binding international agreement on greenhouse gas emission reduction. We do not succeed in getting the major countries like the United States, China, India, etc. on emission limits, we should only note that the debate we have here today in the Norwegian economy is quite worthless.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e968	I'm proud of our government. Today we have the best climate law in the world. I feel a bit like it when Johann Olav Koss walked 10,000 meters in the Viking ship, because today we start to work to show that we can when the will is there. Today, the Right says that they have not made demands for the purification of gas power, but that they follow the progress of the Government. Today, the Government is supported by its work to ensure that in future international agreements there are no free allowances. Today, the Progress Party again criticises its own policy, but it may not be new. Today, the opposition in Stortinget shows that it is willing to extend quite far when it has a government that shows will, courage and action. Right-wing fears investment stops in the industry. Well, industry will have long-term framework conditions. And it didn't bloom exactly when the Right turned the industry down and ran its business-neutral policy. But it is also important to understand that through the voluntary agreement that we got pressured through here in Stortinget, the industry has reduced its emissions by 27 pst. Then we've increased the emissions in the petroleum sector by 78 pst. This is a complicated thing, because it's not just negative. As a result, England and Germany can achieve their objectives of shutting down more polluting industries and using the gas they get from Norway. So one has to be able to have more than one mind in your head at the same time. The climate policy of the Progress Party is such that they opposed the inclusion of climate emissions in the pollution law. They were against the CO2 tax. They are against the law that we adopt today. They have not been a purifier of neither Kårstø nor other gas power plants. They were against Gassnova and the conversion of the car charges. They have nothing to boast of. Finally, conversion does not have to be painful. When technology and budget allow night and night from Kristiansand, the transition will be glorious. But I understand that then one should be both a technology and a budget optimist.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e982	The representative of Kristoffersen, the rapporteur of the matter, opened his speech by saying that the climate allowance law would not result in the semination and relocation of Norwegian industry. I recommend the Labour Party representatives in this Chamber to contact the Labour Party rapporteur in Verdal, Bjørn Iversen, and tell him that this will not happen, because Iversen says in today's version of Tronder-Avise that he is now afraid that the lime reserves, the largest lime reserves in Europe, cannot be used because of what the Government decides today, and that the factory is 210 million. kr is not feasible, because the Government imposes SEK 40-46 million on it. kr in annual costs. I propose that Asmund Kristoffersen inform the Workers' Party in the Nord-Trøndelag. I'll tell you a success story. In 1974, Hurricanes in the South-Trøndelag had a larger viable industrial enterprise. It was Elkem Tamshavn with approx. 120 employees. Visionary politicians built an industrial area they called the Green Eye. Today, a total of 600 people work in the modern and traditional heavy industry in Hurricane. Following today's decision in this room, no such new industry could be established, either in Hurricane or elsewhere. The melting plant in Mo in Rana is another case. It wasn't a painful change that the previous speaker had in mind. The melting plant in Mo in Rana was phased out. But it was replaced by an industrial adventure. Small and medium-sized enterprises flourished around the environment that the melting plant built up. This will also not be possible after today's decision in this Chamber. The forest-based industry in Buskerud and in the Trøndelag counties consists of much more than the paper factory. It consists of cellulosic factories, power stations, power plants and paper industry, cardboard and box factories, lime factories, wood-burden factories, etc. – from Mo in Rana in the north to Trondheim in the south and also in Buskerud. Today's regime will dramatically exacerbate the situation of this value chain, which is being hit. But this will not lead to a significant reduction in the need for these products. There will be no less need for paper in the world, although the government will ensure that the paper industry in Norway is closed down. The consequences of this, together with the other things that affect this – the power situation, the absence of the industrial power regime – are closure. How can it be good for the environment to move this production from Norwegian districts to Finland instead of producing paper and the necessary input factors in Norway? Someone has to explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e993	This debate shows that there are not so many simple answers. At the same time, it is interesting to hear the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen admit in his speech that existing industry came out well, which must mean that existing industry has lived well and that it will also be able to survive. However, the Progress Party uses very strong words that the climate quota law means a death sentence on the Norwegian industry. I don't think we're made with that kind of black paint. The Norwegian Climate Change Act is a balanced approach, between imposing stringent environmental requirements and facilitating trading of allowances, which many of us have been involved in earlier today. So there's reason to ask, especially with the background of the last article by the representative Tord Lien: What leading companies have got their death sentence? No one, perhaps with the exception of the company that the representative Torny Pedersen mentioned here, has said that they will shut down their business. In the case of the non-started establishment in Verdal, it remains to be seen when that plant is completed at the end of this year, whether it will start up or not. But it's clearly a big challenge. There's no problem admitting it. Then I want to say a little bit about the process, which many in the opposition have been concerned about. The opposition has received a unique service to get a good answer to all the questions they have asked. In addition, the opposition has received legal assistance that I have not experienced in the 14 years I have been in Stortinget. So the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen says that the government has been arguing for 20 months. What kind of statement is that? Firstly, I think it is a language that is unworthy, both in the setting and in this room. Second, the content might be worse. The work on the climate quota law had to take some time. That is why we have a law that has made it very clear what we are facing, what measures we need and what problems we are facing. That the Progress Party disagrees is okay, but the Advance Party must not believe that even if we had had all the world's time, we would have agreed with the Progress Party on solutions. For there is a fundamental disagreement between the Progress Party and most other parties in this Chamber, namely that the Progress Party, as they have documented today, does not take seriously the climate change that is taking place and that is created by our greenhouse gas emissions. It is also the case that the Progress Party often refers to the aluminium industry in this context. It's quite irrelevant to what we're dealing with right now. At the same time, it's saying that the Norwegian aluminium industry is very good. But there is industry in e.g. Spain, the Netherlands and Switzerland, which emit less CO2 per tons of aluminium produced than what we're doing. So it's more to go after. The Kyoto mechanism is a whip, but it also rewards the one who is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1015	There is little doubt that today is a black day for the Norwegian process industry. The consequences of the decision taken by the majority in this Chamber today will in many ways be an effective way of killing the Norwegian process industry. The fact that Norwegian industry is to have a completely different tax regime from other countries will have dramatic consequences for industry and, among other things, for the environment. District Norway. Let me take a concrete example, which has also been mentioned by several representatives, namely NorFra Kalk's establishment in Verdal. The company plans to move its business from an old, out-of-the-box plant to a new plant with new technology. It will be better for the environment and give less pollution, but due to the strange rules, this company will have a bill of 45 million. kr – probably so much that the company will not be able to afford to realise that plant. This means that you still have to drive with an old plant, that you still have to ship stones and carry them southwards in Europe, where it will be further processed in worse facilities than that in Verdal, which will, of course, cause far greater pollution than if we had had the same regime as elsewhere in Europe in terms of taxes. In today's Trønder-Avisa, the Executive Director of NorFraKalk declares the following: ‘The government and the Stortinget are failing Norwegian industry when they are in favour of the new climate quota law. I think it is so strong that our factory will be the last establishment in the Norwegian land-based process industry, if the climate quota law as energy and the environmental committee are in favour of it." There is little doubt that the curious rules will lead to worse conditions for Norwegian industry. The risk of loss of new and profitable jobs, greater deflagration of Norwegian industrial workplaces, the fact that old factories will not be replaced by new and more environmentally friendly factories, and a ring-fence in the form of the disappearance of established jobs will be increasing. I note that the representative of Klungland is proud of these consequences. How can the Workers' Party be proud to support a new climate quota legislation that will go beyond the normal workers in the Norwegian industry to those degrees? And how can a party like the Center Party, which claims to be the district party, go in favour of legislation that would then, to those degrees, upset the industrial workplaces in the districts and lead to lower profitability around the districts-Norway? All of this can be avoided if you are in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party to have the same legislation as elsewhere in Europe. In conclusion: I note that this is the start shot from the sitting government to a systematic closure of the jobs around in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1033	It is a special debate – when instead of analysing and explaining its proposal, the red-green parties are only careful to shoot at the Progress Party, given that we are not hysterical enough in our review of the climate. So there's no analysis or impact analysis from the red-green batches. It is only a technical review of the Government's proposal, where one assumes that strict rules will stimulate businesses to become more environmentally friendly. The problem in this context is that one stimulates so strongly that the companies break their necks. I challenge the Council of State to analyse the content of its policy, when, for example, one. says that process emissions from today’s industry cannot be purified but assume that one must be able to clean 100 pst. in new enterprises. What does the Government really think about gas power plants, which we have asked questions about? What does the Government really think about forest management, when one believes it is morally good to over-comply with the agreement on forest management, but not morally good at complying with the agreement on forest management? What does the Council of State really mean when she says that the polluter should pay? Should the polluter pay everything, 100 pst., as SV, a part of the Workers' Party and the Left perceive it, or should he pay at the same level as in the EU? The representative of Torny Pedersen, the representative of Micaelsen and others have been deeply concerned that the Progress Party does not go far enough and has the same attitude towards climate change as the other parties. The reason why we haven't agreed to this remark is that we're more concerned with discussing politics and measures than just putting ourselves on a line where one says how worried one is. Proof of this is simply Document No. 8:97, from the Progress Party. We have, as the only party, presented an overall approach to this issue, where the other parties in this room are still just talking about being as concerned as possible, and will discuss the least possible of the policies. The representative Tore Nordtun claimed that the Progress Party would transfer the costs to the taxpayers. It's just nonsense. What we want is not to shift costs to industry, but that the state, which is allocated the quotas, should allocate the quotas to industry – instead of selling the quotas to industry. When many representatives of the red-green parties have said that the industry is awarded 80 pst. Of their allowances in relation to their emissions, I notice that the Council of State writes 70 pst. 10 pst. In other words, the industry must then cover up its emissions. So the representative Kristoffersen says that new industry will come out of this. I notice that the Council of State writes – at least to the Committee – that new mainland industry will receive an extra bill of over 500 million. kr in the year because of this. And when the representative Kristoffersen claims that the committee has received good help and good answers to his questions, a close question has to be asked about whether he has looked at the answers. When so many answers say that this cannot be answered – or will not be elaborated due to time pressure, which is the answer a sheep in terms of gas power – it is neither good help nor particularly clear. When the representative of Klungland comes along with his imagination, I just notice that the representative of Klungland fully agreed with the Progress Party when he himself was in opposition, but now he is just spending time for the history to falsify what the Progress Party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1057	The President has doubts as to whether 'only customs' is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1060	I was asked about the forest in the line change. My answers were probably somewhat unclear then. For this reason I would like to clarify the following: The Central Party has decided at its national meeting that forest should enter as part of the future climate regime. In the case of 30 pst. By 2020, we assume that forest will be added to and not replaced by the concrete actions we describe in our programme formulations. In general, the Centre Party believes that the forest should be included, but it should not be replaced by other necessary measures and conversion processes. We want tough measures in many areas, where the most important are high-point offshore and land discharges, phase-out of oil firing and conversion in the transport sector. When those processes are in progress, we want to include forest to a greater extent. It's important and proper that forest comes in later. This would be good for Norway, in that it encourages sensible forest management. It will be good for the world, because it is a system that encourages and promotes. Forests will be important for the global management of forest areas — and planting everywhere. On the southern hemisphere, it is cut today more than the growth, which is opposite in Norway. It is also important for the forest industry with a new climate agreement, for the use of renewable energy will be more attractive and profitable. Then we should be aware that increased biomass withdrawals in Norway will affect the exact absorption of CO2 so that we are definitely served by a system that takes into account fluctuations over time. With regard to the Kyoto agreement and the forest, it was Siri Bjerke in the Stoltenberg I government who first said that Norway was not going to use forest to meet the Kyoto agreement. This was subsequently adopted in the context of the 2002 Bondevik II Climate Communication. This government has not wanted to change that. So we're not going to use forests to meet the Kyoto agreement until 2012, because it would mean reducing ambitions in other areas in Norway. The center party believes that the most important thing is that we reduce our own emissions and go ahead. In the case of future climate agreements, we want foresting. Our overfill reasoning is therefore consistent and in line with the decision made at our national meeting. So it is mentioned, especially from the Progress Party, that we are now on a deathline for Norwegian industry. I just want to stress that from the centre party it is completely irrelevant to accept that form of problem. It is true that Norway today has a business life that shows that they are taking the environment seriously, because the Norwegian authorities have made demands on how the industry is going to develop. It is not the profit of the Progress Party that the environmental standard in business is as high as it is today. The Progress Party has largely opposed the imposition of stricter requirements on industry. In this situation, in order to meet climate commitments, we also have to make demands on the industry. The balanced measures that are now being adopted are in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1078	Actually, the warning lights should have been lit in the Governmental Quarter today – for several reasons. Only the fact that the representative of Klungland today is standing here and boasting very much of the Government should be one reason to ask yourself if you've ended up on wild roads. I wonder if the representative Klungland got the big legal demonstration that took place in the lawn outside the lion's tray last week – red tabs flanked by trustees who felt deceived by the current government, among other things. in the case of industrial power, reference has been made to the fact that investment plans for around DKK 25 billion may now need to be iced because they are not capable of demonstrating their ability to implement them, while at the same time putting on a political line that may lead to perhaps the best of Norwegian industry, which is the world's leading in the field of renewable technology, having to move out. We were honest on this issue that went on industrial power. It wasn't our honoured opponent. They won the election on this. There will be fast wind in red tabs when you are unable to deliver – and thank you for that! So to the representative Torgeira Mikalsen, who indicates that the Right has made a glide flight in this case, and that we are going for a relaxed regime. I think terminology is going to be completely crazy. We are pursuing a policy in this area that is in line with the policy that the European Union is implementing and that we should have put ourselves on. Through the suspension, we prove that we have a policy that does not give one gram more of greenhouse gas emissions than is the case with the Government's proposal. Another thing is that with the government's proposal it can actually become a little relaxed in the future in some Norwegian industrial communities. At the same time: if there are any people who have made a glide flight in this case, it is actually the Workers' Party. When the previous government introduced today’s national climate quota system, they agreed with the previous government – they did not go for a principle of punishing by retroactive force. Finally, representatives of the government parties stand here and say that we have the best system in the world – or alternatively the best system in Europe. I think the council said it was quite right, that she regretted that she had not been able to file the matter earlier. It illustrates in many ways where we stand today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1091	What did the Labour Party say about the Norwegian industry in the election campaign? Well, you had to put in green certificates to speed up power generation in the country. Then I want to make a visit to the representative Micaelsen, who represents Buskerud on the Stortinget: Södra Cell Tofte, who is one of the corner stone companies in a small community at Tofte in Buskerud, was promised 10-15 million. DKK in annual aid for its environmentally friendly power generation. We haven't seen anything about green certificates. The Labour Party also promised, as the representative of Kristiansen, an industrial power regime as quickly as possible. Now the Prime Minister has said that it will not be as soon as possible, because it is impossible. There's that thing. So the Workers' Party said that they should be committed to maintaining the most environmentally friendly industry in the world, precisely for environmental reasons. There's a lot of talk about innovation. Innovation, innovation, innovation, in the Norwegian industry should be facilitated so that it becomes more environmentally friendly. But what is the basis for most of the revolutionary innovations in Norwegian industry? Well, there are new companies, which are emerging from new technologies. I refer here to the production of solar panels. The government says that the industrial process of shutting down solar panels should be exempt from climate allowances, while the production of silicon, silicon and silicon carbide, which are inputs to create these solar panels, must therefore pay climate allowances. This is a new industry that will not be able to increase its capacity in Norway due to the government’s submission. The most frightening thing about what we have heard today is that State Council Bjørnøy says that after 2012, all industry in Norway will be required to buy all the quotas, no matter what the EU has to do. Then the representative Lars Peder Breck can call it what he wants, he can mean what he wants, and he may think what he wants about it, but it will lead to the closure of the Norwegian industry, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1107	In 1989, after an auction between the other political parties, the majority of the population adopted some very, very concrete and ambitious targets for the reduction of Norwegian CO2 emissions in 2010 and 2020. Since then, all the other parties which supported these decisions on ambitious objectives have had a very significant majority in the Grand Duchy. Why in the world have not the Right, Workers' Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Centre implemented the measures necessary to achieve the objective that they almost overcame each other in 1989, until 2010? It's a question that could have been nice to be answered. After all, it must be the rejection of these parties' consciences when they now criticise the Progress Party, as if we were to blame for the fact that the other parties, which have always had a majority, have not carried out anything of importance. Then it's no wonder that we don't even participate in the competition for so-called goals far into the future, which will be followed up later. I just wanted to mention it to say that we've been witnessing this acting before. We know – and we've seen – that there are plays on goals. So for the treatment of the climate quota law. This is an example of how laws should not be made. After more than a year’s discussion, government parties are sent out to the hearing, for example: to the Norwegian industry and to the Norwegian trade union movement, which is, in reality, given a week of consultation. Then, in the hurry and the rush to Stortinget, you come with a poorly worked-out bill. The majority of the population actually decides that we have to deal with it before the summer, and we have accepted it for the sake of a need for a framework for industry. And the proof of that deletion is that the rapporteur on the matter today, before noon. 09, has made a proposal which he did not promote in the Committee's plenary session on Sunday. What then happens between the proceedings of Odelsting and the proceedings of the Lachting, when, of course, the Committee is to have a meeting and make its views known in writing on this proposal under Section 31 of the Rules of Procedure? I have to say that it's a shame to witness such a blatant legal process in terms of the preparation and thorough consideration of the consequences of what you're doing, as the government parties here get through in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1122	Apart from the justified disagreement that exists at some points in this setting, the vote is marked – and I would also like to say the debate, perhaps with the exception of one party – by a great deal of consensus and willingness to lift up together to address the major environmental challenges. We are in a situation where our generation is about to undermine the basis of life of those who come after us. It demands that we show a common willingness to cooperate across the boundaries of the parties to address the major environmental challenges. Such a situation exists for all parties to the trusteeship of the trustee. When I take the floor, it's because we're experiencing a very strong contrast in the contributions from the Progress Party. The representative, Torbjørn Andersen, made a very committed contribution, which showed that the representative understood the major challenges we face in the environmental discussion, while the representative, Solvik-Olsen and also the Vice President of Stortinge, Carl I. Hagen, did not take into account the same seriousness in this discussion as the representative, Torbjørn Andersen, did. The representative, Carl I. Hagen, is snooping at the goals set in 1989. In the period when the Right was in government, the emissions actually went down, and if you're going to be interested in the discussion about whether or not to cut, you have to at least recognise why you're going to take such cuts. And that's the recognition that the Progress Party has not yet taken over. The representative of Solvik-Olsen says in an article that he can't be as concerned as the other parties, so he doesn't go into the discussion about the United Nations Climate Panel. Who has been most concerned about this discussion, I think, in fact, is a question you might disagree about. I have two questions for Solvik-Olsen. I saw that he drew himself, so then he might try to answer them. The first is whether the Progress Party recognises that climate change is most likely to be man-made. The second question is whether the Progress Party is basing its climate report. I'm recording that Solvik-Olsen says you're taking note of the Kyoto Protocol. But that's not the question. The question is whether Ketil Solvik-Olsen is addressing the major challenges we face and whether climate change is most likely man-made?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1135	On Sunday I saw Harry Potter on TV, and there was something they called gomps, umagic people. For me, a lot of the rhetoric of the Advancement Party reminds me of being a little unmagic. When talking about green certificates and why they haven't, I want to remind the Progress Party that this government has set up a fund of 20 billion kroner to get on the track new renewable energy that doesn't lead to the electricity price rising for private consumers. Then I assume that the Progress Party has problems explaining why they believe what they mean. We were together pressing the previous government to conclude an agreement with the industry that has led to a reduction in CO2 emissions of 27 pst. during the period. Then, of course, it's industry that's up and going today, and as we know, it can continue its reduction. But that's how, as Carl I. Hagen says, the Progress Party believes that everything was much better before. In fact, I think it was for the members of the Progress Party. But I don't quite understand why they then formed the party – if it's become much worse in retrospect. I also want to say a little bit about the opportunity to learn. In 1989, as Carl I. Hagen referred to, the speaker from the Progress Party, Øystein Hedstrøm, said that with the agricultural policy of the Advance Party, there would be a small reduction in the greenhouse effect, because they would reduce tomato cultivation and cucumber cultivation in the greenhouses, and then one would avoid the leakages from there. So a certain lesson has come into the Progress Party as well. So they were against the Kyoto mechanisms and the entire Kyoto agreement, but they have changed to go for it. At the very end, I have to comment on what the representative Kristiansen from the Right was up and said. I understand that the right is a little bit sour. It is probably the first time in history that a government has had a train of companies and trade unions that have demonstrated for something it would do. In any case, no train has ever experienced to the right that has demonstrated something the party has wanted. Of course, there's something Kristiansen should take over. After the war, the Labour Party has led a policy that has led us to the welfare society and the welfare state we have. Of course, we'll keep doing that, and we're going to claim that we're actually responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1157	It was Carl I. Hagen's posts that made me ask for the floor. He went back to 1989 and referred to the goals that were set that time, and said not to blame them for allegedly not doing anything. Here the senior general of the Progress Party remembers completely wrong, because it has been done quite a lot in the meantime. To mention two things: CO2 tax and agreement with the industry. This has therefore led, as also the representative of Klungland mentioned, to significant emission reductions. It has been estimated that by 1990, if not the measures taken, emissions in 2020 would probably be 78 million tonnes of CO2. Now it is estimated that they will be 54 million tonnes of CO2, i.e. a reduction of 24 million tonnes of CO2. There are significant actions in place, but I understand that this is not happening to the representative Hagen's memory, because these are questions that the Progress Party has not been very concerned about. It is only now recently that, after hearing some of the comments, you are quite reluctant to acknowledge that the heating we are about to receive may have a bearing on economic activity. I understand that the Advance Party now feels skewed, because in all areas the party has had as a clue not to do anything that could be unpleasant to its voters. So now you suddenly find yourself in a situation where the voters take seriously and think that it requires action from the politicians. Then, too, the Progress Party comes slowly on the track, but proposes measures that should not affect us – we will take everything out. That is not enough, and it is not in line with the mechanisms of the Kyoto Protocol, so we also have to do something at home, and we are going to do something out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1176	The representative of Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1179	The representative indicates that in other cases I have received two 3-minute inserts after I have kept the main post. I just want to remind the representative Sanner that it is the Progress Party and the Right that are closest to each other in this matter. The installation from Sanner actually becomes completely incomprehensible in that context. The question that Mr Sanner raised, I answered in a reply. The representative would hear that if he had been there. I remember all those who are trying all the way here to make this a general climate debate instead of a climate quota debate, that the Progress Party – as the only party in this Chamber – has proposed how Norway will reduce its CO2 emissions and how Norway will meet its Kyoto commitments. I recommend the representatives who are constantly trying to make this a debate on climate hysteria rather than on the climate quota law, to read the proposal from the Progress Party first, and then we can take that debate afterwards. I have said in the past that there is no doubt that the Progress Party is the only party in this Chamber that has dared to question some of the claims made in the climate debate. But we've never denied that there's a challenge here that we're going to consider and look at. We have not been against both researching climate change and introducing measures. It is also in our party programme. Instead of spending time on the actual history of the Progress Party, let's discuss what this is really about. I would like to hear the representative Jan Tore Sanner say where in the Climate Quota Act the Progress Party and the Right stand further apart from each other than the Right and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1195	Asmund Kristoffersen is the next speaker. Asmund Kristoffersen is the rapporteur on the matter and has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1198	Now that we're going to the end of the debate, I want to say the following: I think we can agree that the Norwegian parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, can go out into the world with a raised head and show that we are now adopting a climate quota law that can be an example to many others, especially when we get into the next period, after the first Kyoto period. We have not, as Mr. Carl I. Hagen said, blamed the Progress Party for our climate policy – for very good reasons. The Progress Party has always been totally outside of any environmental measure and has never influenced Norwegian environmental policy. And thank you for that! Then I will give tribute to the representative Sanner for his posts. The representative Sanner said it clearly. A broad majority is behind a large and comprehensive law based on recognised science, a science that the Progress Party will not take over, which is also confirmed in this Chamber, although there are some conflicting signals, depending on who takes the floor from the Progress Party. Mr. Sanner's comments could have been the last article in this debate, because that was a very ok summary. Then I don't want to be sitting on what the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen said, that we are always talking about the Progress Party in our posts. I tried to be careful in my main post and only concentrate on justifying the government's policy regarding the law that the majority advocates. I was short on a summary review of the majority and minority constellations. I would also like to clarify what the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim said that there is no need for a change in the law to have a different view in terms of detonating the 10 pst. limit, as I might be wrongly perceived. I think it's good to clarify that. I would also like to say a little about urgency and that what we are now adopting today should not be quality assured well enough, because it has also been a topic in this debate. As I said in the previous round, in my 14 years at Stortinget, I have never experienced such a service from a department in terms of answers to questions, and in terms of designing legislative proposals for opposition parties asking for it. That's my experience. No one can take it from me. Then I also have to ask: what has the Progress Party done since the hearing draft came – a complete scheme – since they now give the impression of quieting with blank sheets when we come to the final treatment of this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1215	First, an invitation to the President to look at Section 20, fifth paragraph, where it says: ‘If, during the procedure, the Committee appears to be divided into two or more fractions, each of these fractions may elect its rapporteur.’.» Mr Solvik-Olsen is the rapporteur of the Progress Party. Paragraph 35, sixth paragraph, states: ‘However, the restrictions mentioned above shall not apply to: [[...]] So Ketil Solvik-Olsen can have as many three-minute posts as he wants. So to Svein Roald Hansen, who has obviously forgotten that some years after 1989, the formal objective decision from the debate was formally suspended at that time, because it was not possible to achieve and maintain the objectives adopted. Well, then, sir. Klungland, who also remembers quite wrongly: I do not quite remember whether he was here, but the Progress Party has kept a clear line all along. Yes, we voted against the Kyoto agreement, but at the same time we said that some of the things that made sense in the Kyoto agreement were the quota mechanisms. So we were opposed to setting these measures and cutting them down. But if the majority did so first, the mechanism was actually very sensible, because it would lead to the costs that were imposed, wherever in the world, leading to the maximum reduction in emissions. That was the mechanism, and we said it was reasonable: if costs are to be incurred, the costs must be used to the fullest extent possible. As far as I remember, Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland also spoke about this at the national meeting of the Workers' Party. She did not understand the vigilance in Norway, where, as she said, measures were to be cost-intensive. It is the cost application in Norwegian industry that is the theme of this law. It would be foolish to impose costs, when at the same cost you could reduce 10 to 20 times as much elsewhere in the world, said the Prime Minister at that time. That's the line the Progress Party has been following all along. We have said that once the majority has ratified the Kyoto agreement, we have accepted that we are bound by it. That's why we've been much more concerned about getting a debate on the measures and how to implement the commitments, than this auction about who's best in the class, with goals that will be there many years after this accumulation and most of the members no longer have any responsibility for it. It is as easy to adopt objectives as others are obliged to pursue later. It is too little serious for a serious and responsible party to be involved in it by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1238	The President will maintain that it is the rapporteur on the matter who has an unlimited number of posts of 3 minutes, in addition to government councils. It does not apply to the principal figures of the lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1241	First, I would like to thank you for the pleasant words of Asmund Kristoffersen. There are, of course, elements both in this case and in the forthcoming environmental debates where there will be disagreement between the Right and the sitting governmental parties. We want to make greater use of market economy instruments, while others tend to use more planning instruments. But when that is said, I think there are some issues in Norwegian policy that are still so important that sometimes you have to be willing to look a little over party political discussions, and the environmental challenges we face are such. When we are undermining the basis of life of our descendants, it calls for responsibility on the part of all politicians, both locally, centrally and nationally. The right has made it clear that we want to set up in that context. I'm still surprised that Ketil Solvik-Olsen takes so easily on the challenge I gave him, in the same way that Carl I. Hagen did. They should have listened a little to the post that Torbjørn Andersen made earlier in the debate, where he showed that there are also some people in the Progress Party who take seriously. Ketil Solvik-Olsen said that the Progress Party “estimates” and will look into whether this is a challenge. It's a challenge! Of course, once the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has settled this, one can still choose to ask questions, but one should nevertheless say that we base the precautionary principle. If it's the case that the climate junk is man-made, it demands that we take action. The representative Carl I. Hagen says that once the majority has ratified the Kyoto Protocol, the Progress Party takes note of it. Then you drop the cat out of the bag and say, "We're not in favour of the Kyoto agreement, we're not taking this seriously, but because the other parties have adopted this, we take it into account." I think it is interesting for the voters to know whether the Progress Party is at the heart of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and whether the Progress Party recognises that climate debris is most likely to be man-made. This debate has shown that at least the leaders of the party do not want to go into that discussion, but I am pleased that at least one of the representatives of the Progress Party is making a commitment to environmental policy. I hope that the others will come later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1257	Tord Lien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, absolutely limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1260	I'll try. First for service: When the government has spent 20 months dealing with this matter, and the country's top political authority – which is still the Stortinget – will deal with it in 20 days, it would be lacking that we would not have all the service available. What is the debate today about? It is about the climate quota law – the position of the Energy and Environment Committee on the Climate Allowance Act – and how we are going to discharge the international obligations imposed on us by the Kyoto Agreement. This is about today’s debate, including the conditions applicable to Norwegian industry. Should Norwegian industry have worse conditions than European industry? The approach of the Progress Party: we are not going to vote against the law today. We have promoted a number of proposals that are obviously much better than what the government's starting point is, but with all due respect for Norwegian industry, we are going to vote in favour of the law today. The CO2 accounting in the Progress Party approach is exactly the same as in the Government. The difference is that companies are getting more quotas, while Finance Minister Halvorsen is getting fewer quotas. That the Workers' Party and the Right – so-called industrial parties – will not discuss these realities, I fully understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1281	It is fascinating to follow the debate, but it is absolutely impossible to grasp what is the long-term quota policy of the Progress Party. Shall we listen to Torbjørn Andersen, who shows healthy peasantry in this matter and talks about the man-made climate change? Are we going to listen to the silk king of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who refuses to answer questions – repeated challenges both from Jan Tore Sanner, from Heidi Sørensen and from others – that address the key questions in this, which are how they address long-term issues, and how they address man-made climate change? Or are we going to listen to the vote of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, who in this case is very clear that they will not participate in any future goals, because they think that is unprofessional? I want to ask a very simple question: does the Progress Party realise that objectives and quota systems are interrelated? Today we're here, and we're adopting a quota system. The precondition for having a trading allowance system that determines the level of commitments made by each country is that the commitments taken by the different countries have been adopted internationally in the past. Then it is that the Progress Party was opposed to taking on the commitments we made through the Kyoto agreement, which is the precondition for today's allowance system. Now they admit it, but – with respect for reporting – there are good reasons for getting the Progress Party out in the light of what they see as obligations they have to have in the long term. We're going to deal with this later, but all the parties have said what they want – all the parties, except the Progress Party, have stated what commitments they want. The progress batch will have a quota system to apply, but they know that the quota system we are establishing today only applies until 2012. Now we're starting to talk about what kind of quota system we're going to have from 2012 to 2020. But the vote of the Advance Party will not say anything about what ambitions you should have, because you don't want to be part of this kind of overbidden policy, and it doesn't work anyway. If we are to conduct a decent, serious, serious and sound climate policy and debate here in the country, it is to be assumed that the Progress Party will also come out and tell us whether the Progress Party intends to do something. Is the party planning to achieve a target for 2012-2020? And what kind of objectives should we have as the basis for the discussions we are going to engage in in international negotiations? If you are in favour of an allowance system, you must be in favour of a commitment. And if we're going to have a commitment to 2020 as well as a quota system that works, we have to have a growth where all parties have a sense of what kind of commitments we're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1292	A unanimous bench of the West-Agder government parties has appointed me rapporteur for the matter, so I assume that I can take the floor as many times as I want in this debate. I also record that the representative Hagen does not like competition for who is the best in the class. I have to say that is new beats and tones from the Progress Party. But one should ask whether the Progress Party is against competition only in relation to environmental policy. Norway has been and is a good country in environmental policy. We have been because we have taken climate emissions into the pollution law, we have received CO2 tax, we have the world's most ambitious quota system, we have the Mongstad project, we have clean-up Kårstø, we have an energy fund of SEK 20 billion, we have an agreement with Norwegian industry, we have created Enova, we have created Gassnova, we have a conversion of the car tax, we have doubling of subsidies to the railway, and, not least, we have expanded the hydropower and new renewable energy. By that I would say that we have reason to be proud. I wish everyone a good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1306	A little bit about the issue raised by the representative Jan Tore Sanner, related to the Progress Party's belief and doubts about man-made climate change. It would have been good to know how much facts the Progress Party needs before it enters into them that parts of climate change are most likely to be man-made. It is strange that the Progress Party will take great action if they do not believe in man-made climate change. Is it common for the Progress Party to spend time and energy on something they don't believe in? To me, it may seem that the representative proposal to which the representative Solvik-Olsen refers all the time, which has been presented and which is not being dealt with until the autumn, is just to have a straw line to point to in climate policy and in the forthcoming election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1313	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1316	I would like to inform the last speaker and to Heikki Holmås that our Document No. 8:97 is considerably more complete than the proposition currently being dealt with, and it is relatively reworked. We are the only ones who have so far put forward concrete measures, in addition to the climate quota law that is now under discussion, for how we are to meet our international commitments that the ratification of the Great Britain majority has resulted in Norway's taking on. So Heikki Holmås sauces together the Norwegian climate allowance law and Kyoto. The relationship between countries is the Kyoto mechanisms. It is something other than the internal climate allowance law that is now being dealt with. We've stuck to our attitudes all along. I would like to point out that the answers to the questions put to the Progress Party can therefore be found in Document No. 8:97. But I respect that the representatives have not had time to get into the very thoroughly worked-out material so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1323	I think that this has been an interesting debate. When dealing with the Climate Change Act for Norway, a large majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, are obviously saying that we should have a climate quota law. But the most fundamental question, with which I think the Progress Party has a totally deplorable deal, is: Are we facing a climate problem or not? That question has been asked repeatedly in this Chamber by the Progress Party. They do not at all respond to whether they will join the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the researchers who have provided strong reports on this. It's irresponsible. I would also like to refer to the Solvik-Olsen response to my and Heidi Sørensen's lines when we ask about the basics of the whole climate quota law that we are dealing with today, namely the challenges we are facing. We are then answered – they have not written it in the position, because they do not agree with the majority that we are facing such a problem – that there was a meeting at the bottom of Europe where AIDS was really high on the agenda, like climate emissions, and that there was no doubt – I have actually been and looked at the record of the change of lines – that AIDS was thus an as great environmental challenge as the climate. Then I almost have to ask Solvik-Olsen – he probably does not have speaking time again: Should AIDS be treated under the pollution law in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1332	This debate has evolved a little strange, I think. It seems that the most important environmental challenge we have is whether or not the Progress Party accepts the Kyoto agreement, whether or not CO2 is an environmental problem. That's what this debate has changed to be about, and then you underline the importance of the trading of allowances. The progress party is not against doing anything for the climate. We have made proposals on this, and there we have been much more focused than what is in the document today. Here it's about percent, and here it's also about how anti-industrial you can act in this room. Because you haven't talked about that. What costs are the majority parties here willing to take in respect of industrial workplaces? What are our investment objectives? How much less investment do we want in Norway in the years to come? It has not been mentioned in the debate. Is it better to sell allowances abroad, for example, than to offer them to Norwegian industry, which is the purest industry in the world, and where we have control, where we can influence, where we can make laws to reduce emissions? I wish we could go into new years where we could look forward to major industrial investments, where we have competence, and where we have workers who have worked with emissions in the industry for many years. Unfortunately, this debate has begun to focus on whether the Progress Party should be in favour of or against Kyoto, and whether we consider it a climate problem or not, but no one is willing to take into account in the debate that we have already made proposals that will lead to reductions. Unfortunately, we have a majority today that will probably become known as 'industrial deaths'.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1346	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1354	Odelstinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1362	Mr Solvik-Olsen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1365	To the vote on the proposals: if the proposal of the Progress Party falls, I recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote in favour of the law, even if today's debate has given the impression of the opposite. If the proposal of the Progress Party falls, I also recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote in favour of proposal No. 9 subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1370	The voting shall take into account. Nine proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the salesmen's salesmen's 1-4, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5 and 6, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 7 and 8, by Ivar Kristiansen, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 9, from Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1-8 is included in the vote, while proposal No. 9 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 6, from the Right and Christian People's Party, says: ‘The decrease asks the Government to take into account abnormal events during the base period when allocating free allowances for the 2008-2012 period.’;» The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of its Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1645	In order to reduce the number of votes, the President will first vote on the paragraphs and paragraphs of I where there are proposals that differ from the voting and then vote on the other paragraphs, paragraphs and Roman numerals. The President assumes that this must be a good procedure. The President starts with Section 3, second paragraph, where there is an alternative proposal, No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 3 shall be replaced by the following:The pollution authority may, by regulation or by individual decisions, decide which establishments are subject to the law in case of doubt.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1665	For Section 7, there are three different proposals. That is proposal No. 7, from the right: ‘The last paragraph of Section 7 shall be replaced by the following: an allowance reserve for free allocation to new gas power plants to be based on purification, to high-efficiency, concessional cogeneration plants, and to allowances-based activities established after 31 December 2001 and to extensions after that date. The King shall specify the amount of this reserve, the types of establishments to be applied for and the other criteria to be used for the allocation referred to in this subparagraph.’;» That is proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party: ‘Section 7 shall be replaced by the following:§ 7 Free allowances for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012 shall be allocated according to the following principles:Land-based activities shall be allocated free allowances equal to 100 per cent of their process emissions and equivalent to 87 per cent of their energy emissions. [[allocation of allowances free of charge for the 2008-2012 period]] Paragraph 8.Other allowances shall not be allocated for 2008-2012.In the case of activities which have started or substantially expanded their capacity during the period from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2007, allowances shall be allocated free of charge on the basis of specified standards.An allowance reserve for free allocation to activities established after 31 December 2007.The King provides detailed rules for the allocation of allowances after the fourth and fifth subparagraphs.» And that's proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: ‘The allocation may take particular account of installations that reduce total greenhouse gas emissions by exploiting surplus gas from land-based industries that are not regulated by the allowance system or levy.’;» [[(Section 7, second paragraph, new second sentence):]] It is first voted on the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1711	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1718	The representative should probably have voted against it. Then there will be 68 votes against and 11 votes in favour. The proposal from the Right is therefore not accepted. There is then an alternative between the Committee's position on Section 7 and proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1732	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. Many then suggest that it is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1742	For Section 8, there are three different proposals. That is proposal No. 8, from the right: ‘§ 8 shall be replaced by the following:Contaminants shall decide on the number of allowances to be allocated to each person subject for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012. Allowances shall be allocated free of charge under Section 7 on the basis of the average emissions of each person subject to the allowance in the base years from 1998 to 2001.For the allocation of allowances for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012, the following guidelines shall be taken into account:(a) For activities started not later than 1 January 2001, the allocation shall be based on the average emissions of the activity in the base years from 1998 to 2001.(b) If the activities referred to in point (a) have not been in operation for all base years or for other reasons of atypical emissions in one or more of the base years, allowances may be allocated on the basis of the emissions in the other years.(c) If the emissions from activities referred to in point (a) since 1 January 2001, but before 31 December 2007, have become or are expected to be significantly reduced or increased as a result of significant changes in the nature or extent of the activity, this shall be attributed to the allocation. In the case of changes involving increased emissions, the allocation may focus on the possibilities, including the technical and economic possibilities, to limit CO2 emissions, in particular by putting into use the best available techniques.(d) For activities started after 1 January 2001 or expected to be undertaken with reasonable certainty before 31 December 2007, the allocation may focus on the possibilities, including the technical and economic possibilities, to limit CO2 emissions, in particular by putting into use the best available techniques.The award decision shall be subject to the condition that, in the annual allocation of allowances under Section 9, the emission permit for CO2 under the second paragraph of Section 11 of the Pollution Act is available and that the nature and scope of the activity do not deviate significantly from the assumptions on which the award decision is based. In the context of the annual allocation of allowances under Section 9, the pollution authorities shall test whether the conditions for the award decision are met. If the pollution authorities find that this is not the case, the award decision may be converted. The conversion decision is taken on the basis of the allocation of allowances pursuant to Section 9.The King may provide detailed rules for the allocation of allowances pursuant to this provision.» That is proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party: ‘§ 8 shall be replaced by the following:§ 8 The polluter-pays authorities shall decide on the number of allowances to be allocated to each person subject to allowances for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012. Allowances shall be allocated free of charge pursuant to Section 7 on the basis of the average emissions of the person liable in the base years from 1998 to 2005. [[allocation of allowances free of charge]] Establishments that have not been in operation for all base years or for other reasons have atypical emissions for one or more of the base years may be allocated allowances on the basis of the emissions in the other years, or based on established standards. Establishments with allowances mismatches and allowances allocated above 5 per cent may apply for an extended allocation. The award decision shall be subject to the condition that, in the annual distribution of allowances under Section 9, the pollution authorities do not consider that the activity subject to allowances has ceased and that the activities are authorised under Section 11 of the Pollution Act.’;» And that's proposal No. 5, from the Right and Christian Party: ‘The second sentence of the third paragraph of Section 8 shall be replaced by the following:The provision in the preceding sentence shall not apply if the corresponding activity is actually transferred to another installation in the same activity.§ 8 new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The King may, in accordance with this provision, specify the arrangements for the allocation of allowances.’; The proposal of the Right, then alternately between the proposal of the Advance Party and the vote of the Committee, and finally the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1816	For Section 22, there is an alternative proposal, no. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 22 is deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1831	The remainder of I and above II and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1843	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e1853	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e2056	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e2061	In the debate on substance, no. 1 there was some disagreement and discussion on the interpretation of Section 20 of the Rules of Procedure, which gives a fraction of a committee divided into several fractions the right to choose its rapporteur. Mr Solvik-Olsen was the rapporteur of the Progress Party on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists in this matter. I also refer to Paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure where it says: ‘However, the restrictions referred to above shall not apply to:a. the rapporteurs and the Council of State in the department of the matter.’;» However, Ketil Solvik-Olsen did not receive the word for a three-minute post in accordance with the wording of these paragraphs, while Mr. Klungland from the Workers' Party did not hear from the President, when he asked the floor for the third time – after appointing himself as the case rapporteur for the majority of the West-Agder bench – that he kept to 1 minute. Of course, I am quite clear that customs and practices may not entirely match the wording of Storting’s Rules of Procedure. I think it is correct to formally ask the President of Odelsting to ensure that the Presidency either introduces practice in accordance with the wording of the paragraphs or to ensure that the paragraphs are changed in accordance with the custom. The current situation is not very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-19-lower.ana.ud1802e2077	The President may agree to that. The representative, Carl I. Hagen, has every opportunity to address this in the presidency meeting, to be held in an hour. In the case of Rolf Terje Klungland, the president forgot to say that he would get the word for a comment limited to 1 minute, but he only got 1 minute. So he has also not had more speaking time than the others. - This for information. Do more people ask for the word before this meeting is cancelled? - It's not. Good summer!
