ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e22	The representatives of Morten Höglund, Per Roar Bredvold and Ågot Valle, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e36	I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and myself on the change in the pension scheme for fishermen, so that fishermen who are unfit before the age of 60 are refunded the premium to the pension scheme for fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e41	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e44	I have the pleasure of presenting a proposal for a representative on behalf of Bård Hoksrud, Harald T. Nesvik, Kenneth Svendsen and myself to launch a trial project with free national road ferries on one route in each of the counties of Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane, Møre and Romsdal and Nordland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e49	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e52	On behalf of the representatives of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, Erna Solberg, Jan Tore Sanner, Elisabeth Aspaker, André Oktay Dahl, Kari Lise Holmberg and myself, I have the honour of presenting a proposal for a representative on measures to limit the drop-out in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e57	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e77	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Erik SolheimState Council Knut StorbergetState Council Trond Giske The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e94	My question goes to the Minister of Culture and Sports. As a magnificent representative, the Minister for the Olympics. The central government party has decided that the OL should be located in Tromsø. We have noted the lack of respect for the sport's internal processes and for the sports board, which has been overrun in that matter. The National Government of the Progress Party said yesterday evening, on a principle basis, no to the State guarantee for the OL. We in the Progress Party think it's nice and fun with the Olympics. We like sports and like to see Norway take gold, but we have too many unresolved problems in Norway that we can spend money on this. We have hospital cows growing while a red-green government puts hospital wards and huts in the budgets. We have a road network with unincorporated standards, and we need 19 000 sick homes. OL will also be very expensive. The budgets so far have been estimated at between 11 and 15 billion kroner. Some experts say it's going to be more expensive. The 1994 OL at Lillehammer would have cost SEK 1.5 billion, but ended up costing NOK 14 billion. The OL in London in 2012 was budgeted for with DKK 28 billion, but has ended up at DKK 108 billion – so far. So it's impossible to say anything about what the bill is going to be, other than that it's going to be very expensive. My question to the Council of State is: Does he feel it is right to give priority to the OL rather than to health, care, school and infrastructure needs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e107	First of all, let me say that the government believes that it is very important that we get more resources for school, health and care. Therefore, in 2005, we went to the elections with the clear message not to spend money on more tax havens, but to spend it on strengthening the welfare state, which includes: has resulted in DKK 12.5 billion more for municipalities, which are strengthening health, school and care. But we are also too sportsy, including: We spend quite a lot of money in Norway developing sports facilities, both football courts and halls. We need to build a tough new jumper in Oslo. I think the Norwegian people appreciate that we have an active sport, also top sport. We have not decided whether a new OL should be guaranteed. We will only decide on this after the sport has completed its process and have decided which city they believe should be the applicant. So the government will discuss it, and then a matter of any guarantee for an OL will be presented to the Stortinget. Norway may not be right to organise the OL in 2018, but it is definitely right that Norway should also be one of the countries that sometimes assumes responsibility for the top sports event. If Norway is not going to be able to afford to arrange a Winter Olympics or a Ski World Cup once in a while, then you have to ask: Which countries will be able to afford it? I also think that the sport is well served that we have a top sports event. We saw how the Olympics at Lillehammer stimulated twelve-year-olds to fly around in the light cycle. We see how Sunskjær and others inspire girls and boys to play football. In the combination of sport-latitude, there is a context, not a contradiction. But of course, we have to discuss at any time how much of the community's funds are going to go to that type of event, and we will also do that when we receive an application from the Sports Association for a guarantee for a future Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e114	The Council of State is going a long way in sketching that there can be a yes in this field, and now let's look at alternative use of money in such a context. If the lowest bill came, NOK 11 billion, this could give us mid-terms on all the worst-accident roads in Norway, where 100 people died in meeting accidents last year and 1,900 were injured. We could build 19 000 sick homes that we lack, or provide a strong boost for broadband, ICT equipment and indoor climate and solve the problems in Norwegian school. I understand that I am not getting a clear and clear response to the Government's priorities in this area, and I will then link the question to the use of tipping agents. If tipping agents are used for the OL, this will be a disaster for installations around the OL cities. Will the State Council go in to use tipping agents on any OL?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e121	First, I would like to say that I think it is great that the Progress Party is setting money up against each other. I would like a similar calculation to be made in relation to the great tax relief that the Progress Party's policy would have brought, and to see what was left of school, care, middle-parties and other things for that money. At the latest today, it was revealed that perhaps several hundred billion dollars would have been spent on the Norwegian community by the Progress Party's fiscal policy on the oil industry. We have also not considered how much of the tipping agents are to be used for an OL plant, but in an assessment of an OL, the post-use of the plants will be very important. In this regard, and as a reference to the first question, it may be interesting to see that very many of the investments made in the field of OL at Lillehammer were about roads, rail, infrastructure, equipment for police, new college — things that stand there as lasting values for society afterwards. It will be an important part of our assessment when we receive an application for OL: How will this affect society too? Many of the investments we will then make will be useful in many sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e128	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Olemic Thommensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e131	We've marked the central part's approach angle to Tromsø-OL. On the right-hand side, we're generally positive to an OL tank. We agree that Norway is one of the countries that should clearly take the goal of making such a promise once in a while, and we will be interested to follow the case and see the opportunities that may lie there. But we are concerned about how the government has run this case in relation to the sports movement. State Council Haga was out with a clear message about the O.L., and I noticed with interest that the councils later said that this would be a return to their positions. But then we've seen later that the central party as a party has been out and said that for their part, only Tromsø is an alternative. Does the Council of State think that this is perhaps a little problematic in dealing with the government's credibility in relation to the movement of sports, and is this clarified in the government context?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e136	The government has been very clear. We will decide on a guarantee after the sport has finished its process. The Court has taken a decision that they wish to see the O.L. Now they will decide this week which city they believe to be Norway's candidate. Then our task is to say yes or no to a guarantee. As far as I know, the centre party has already had its position on Tromsø from the previous national meeting. This is a Central Party national meeting decision, so it shouldn't be suitable to surprise anyone. Of course, it is quite legitimate for a government party to have an opinion on what social benefits, for example: in relation to districts, which must be the basis for entering into such large resources on the part of society. But the other parties in the government have not concluded. We're going to discuss this matter in the Government after we get it from sport, and then we're going to decide on both the sport policy and the social at any OL event. So the matter will be promoted for Stortinget in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e146	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e149	I am glad that the Council of State stresses that he will listen to the sport first, and that the Council of State Hagas plays out like this is not related to the treatment of the Government. My question to the Council of State is: When we see that sport has as closed a process as they have – where neither the arguments are given or the vote is known – I am excited if the Council of State has no expectations that the sport should be transparent about its arguments and judgements. It is their assessment that should be based on whether or not to provide State guarantees. Shouldn't you have expectations of this process, when you're going to give your opinion so much weight?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e156	Sport is a private organisation, a member-based organisation that determines both its own statutes and its own forms of treatment. It is also true that Norway is not the applicant for an OL, it is the Norwegian Olympic Committee, which in Norway is identical to the Sport Board. So we couldn't oblige them to apply for the Olympics or so far deny them. But they're dependent on a state guarantee, that's how the state gets into the picture. I have not intended as a sports minister to focus on how sport handles its internal processes, but I am aware that the so-called Martinsen Committee's investigation will be made known after the sports board has dealt with the matter at the end of the week. If we get to know who voted what, it's up to the sport itself. But I think there's been a very broad and open discussion – at least in the media – about the qualities of the different candidates and any shortcomings. That debate will also be guaranteed to continue following the decision of the Sports Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e163	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e166	The Council of State said that we must afford it, that if we cannot afford it, who can afford it? It's an interesting statement from the Council of State, Giske. Over the years, the Progress Party has proposed to invest enough money to provide older people with a valuable care for the elderly. We have proposed deleting the hospital debt, so that we can treat more patients. We have proposed upgrading the Norwegian road network so that we can export more goods. We have proposed that the police get the equipment they need. All of this has been voted down by the government parties, and the reason has been that we are spending more money, creating pressure in the Norwegian economy, higher inflation and higher interest rates. The rules of action must be respected at all costs. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has said that we would like to spend more money, but we cannot because of the rule of action. If you accept the government's logic, how can it be that spending 10 to 15 billion dollars on arranging a winter Olympic isn't going to have the same consequences? Or is the government planning to cut DKK 10 to 15 billion on other welfare to afford the Olympics?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e175	I respect Tybring-Gjedde's ability to look into the future, but it's a little difficult to determine how an OL in 2018 will impact on the Norwegian economic situation. There's eleven more years, so whether there's pressure in the economy, whether there's unemployment, or what the situation is, it's maybe a little early to get completely bastant, at least. Very many of the investments in an OL are socially useful investments, there are investments in roads, in police and defence equipment, in infrastructure – buildings, etc. and sports facilities which may be used by sport afterwards. So it's not a one-off amount, it's permanent investments. In five of the eight years between 1997 and 2005, the State budget was settled with the assistance of the Progress Party. If you wanted a strong increase in welfare, you could have done that at the time. So it didn't happen until the Progress Party lost the grip of the Finance Minister's tie and we got a new majority. That's when we invest in well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e184	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e187	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. In Norway, young people are sentenced to 15 years of age each year to very serious crimes that qualify for long prison sentences. These are often young people with great help needs. At the same time, society has a clear need to protect itself against such persons. Just before Christmas, the Stortinget dealt with the notification of alternative criminal reactions to young offenders. The government parties then used their majority to oppose the advice of central trade unions and to force a decision to transfer young offenders sentenced to prison to child protection and to zone their punishment there. The child protection to which the Government will leave dangerous juvenile criminals is a child protection in a deep crisis. Since Christmas, two young people under the care of child protection have lost their lives. Last weekend we read in Dagbladet about a 14-year-old girl on the escape from child protection who sells her body for baptism. Thousands of cases are not dealt with within the statutory three-month period. This tells of a child protection that fails its care tasks in the most serious way. In the handling of the child protection notification of alternative criminal responses for young offenders, an overall opposition warned that child protection should be given responsibility for the implementation of criminal penalties for young offenders aged 15–18 years. The situation in child protection clearly shows that the opposition was right when we pointed out that child protection had neither the capacity nor the competence necessary to address the challenges posed by dangerous juvenile criminals. The problems of child protection therefore raise fundamental questions about the realism of the Government's plans for child protection to take over the responsibility for the reconciliation and prison functions of the young offenders. My question to the Minister of Justice as the chief responsible for safe enforcement will then be: In the light of the critical and partly chaotic situation in the area of child protection, does the Minister of Justice continue to believe that it is appropriate to transfer redress to child protection, or is the Minister of Justice now willing to take care of this important issue and reconsider whether it is right to transfer responsibility for the compensation of young criminals to child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e202	I am a little uncertain as to what the questioner is looking for when it is claimed that the government has pushed through a change in the criminal execution of minors. For it was a good news that was dealt with before Christmas, where no conclusions were drawn on where children should zone in Norway. To the extent that one has a record in this matter, it was not the deeper part of the matter than the fact that, as a conclusion to the notification work, a sample was to be set up to see if it was right that child protection should have a larger task compared to compensation for minors. It is the government's clear opinion that children under 18 have very little to do in Norwegian prisons, and that it actually creates more crime in the sense that children meet an environment that does not help to change the tracks that we need for younger offenders. I can also report to the questioner that we have a positive development in the field. At any time, there are between two and ten minors in Norwegian prisons. There has been a significant decrease in the last few years in the use of prison sentences for young offenders, and this is positive. The ambition of the government is that this number should go down to zero, and that we can find other ways to react to that that helps to reduce crime. This is the background for the start of a sample work to see where it is appropriate for these children to meet with reactions. I am also pleased that both the Right Party and the Advance Party when we dealt with the Penal Code for a few years ago, just pointed out alternative responses to especially younger offenders. The Right Party and the Advance Party also proposed an electronic home reconciliation for minors, as proposed by the Government. We want increased use of community sanctions and increased use of conflict advice. We can do that because most of the children being judged are convicted of less serious crimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e213	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I feel a certain need to say that I wonder if we have been present in the same debate before Christmas when this big message was discussed. Then it was clear that an overall opposition was completely disagreeable with the main choice of government parties at the time, recommended by the Government. It was a one-sided focus on the fact that child protection is the one to be held with the formal responsibility in the future. I then refer again to the fundamental problems of child protection. I wonder how the Minister of Justice will ensure that, in the future, the children under the care of the child protection system will be protected from heavy criminals, as the government parties and the government have pointed out, will have a future settlement offer in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e220	I think we have to approach this problem in a nuanced way. It's never been that you've said that it's one track or the other track that should be the only one in relation to children. It is clear that there is quite a difference between a 15-year-old who commits criminal acts and gets a 60-day sentence, and for example. a 16-17-year-old who commits a murder. I think it's important that we have nuanced instruments for these, and the goal is the same. These minors have very little to pick up from being placed in a traditional Norwegian prison, in view of being rehabilitated and not being a repeater once you get out, but actually commit less crime. I want to point out in particular one tool. It is the work now being done in relation to young drug users through the Stifliner project and other projects under criminal law. I can't see that there's any particular reason to say that there's any kind of performance attached to either one or the other solution, just choosing instruments that we know work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e228	There will be four follow-up questions – first Jan Fredrik Vogt.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e231	I would say that the treatment of St.meld. No 20 for 2005-06 was just about a choice. This is about the choice: Do you want to take shelter into the child protection system, or do you want to take child protection into the shelter, which the opposition was more focused on? There are many reasons why children are in child protection. Unfortunately, there are also some who have a criminal past. But in order for children to go to prison, they must be serious acts. I wonder how, in view of the safety of other children, the Council of State can defend the fact that more and more criminals are being taken into child protection without the possibility for the child protection once in connection with the Storting's treatment of the child care notification. I wonder: how will the Council of State ensure the security of the other children who are there, those who are not there because of crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e238	It can't be right what is now said, that child protection is taking more and more heavy criminals into its own business. It was a big message that we dealt with in Stortinget, and that means that no changes to the laws or changes to the practices that have taken place. We pointed to a process further in relation to the serious challenge of meeting young offenders in this society. I believe that the conclusion of the message work was very good. We're going to get a process that's going to point out the way forward. It is a paradox that we have a system in Norway where criminal offences are transferred to child protection when the child is under 15 years of age – 12 to 13 years of age who commits criminal acts – and perhaps it is very worrying that a 15-year-old should receive child protection assistance. I think we need to think nuanced about this. I believe that child protection can do a good job and criminal care can do a good job, and we have alternative criminal reactions, which also pointed out in the reporting, which are very important: community punishment and conflict council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e245	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e248	Now the Council of State has said that we need to look at this in a nuanced way. But the fact is that the big message presented had a conclusion, namely that child protection should take on more of the punishment and compensation for young criminals. And then the state council says you should also put down a sample. But it's a little bit backwards that you first come up with the conclusion, and then put down a sample. It will then be the mandate of the Selection Board to look at how to implement the need for child protection for more young criminals. With the situation we have in child protection, with tragic events that have actually shown that child protection lacks sufficient legislation to intervene in serious situations, my question is: Will the Government collectively take care of this and look at how we can better secure those who are in child protection, and the young people who have committed criminal acts?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e255	I can say yes to that. I also believe that the process it has been set up after this big message contributes to it. But when we're always in the situation that there are between two and ten kids in this country who are in Norwegian prisons, I think it's an affordable social task to be able to deal with in a way other than necessarily having to place them in a traditional Norwegian prison. We might find solutions that are in the intersection of child protection and criminal care. For some, the transfer to child protection may be more relevant. For others, it will be so serious criminal acts that we need to secure both the child and the child’s environment against any new criminal offences, so that we have to anchor the situation in criminal matters. I'm positive about most of the solutions just that it helps actually get kids on the right track again and gets reduced crime and created more security.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e262	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e265	We in the Left are very concerned about the development of child protection. We see that they are being assigned increasingly heavy tasks, and the Stortinget has now decided to transfer both lone minor asylum seekers and criminal care tasks to child protection, without giving money or providing competence. We who represent Oslo, who has a large, complex population that consists of many different cultures, see that child protection also has major shortcomings in the multicultural competence, and that there is no competence to deal with the conflicts that arise in that area. My question to the Council of State is whether he is not concerned and sees that there is a need here for both skills building and money to do such tasks. It is a child protection service where job stops are introduced — or there may be other problems — rather than transferring money and skills when transferring tasks to that unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e272	Just to clarify, the Storing has not decided that we should transfer criminal custody tasks to child protection. It was a big message that was dealt with before Christmas, so Stortinget then had the opportunity to discuss exactly the line choices that were to be made. That is the debate we are now having, and I believe that both the opposition and we in the government should have a humble attitude to it, because these are difficult questions. It is obvious that child protection is facing major challenges. I am happy to belong to a government that has chosen to bet freshly on giving municipalities a good arm's length in relation to the economy, so that you can also take care of those who need the most care of all the children under the regime of child protection, and can develop a child protection that is actually capable of doing so. At the same time, we see that we spend a lot of money on children in criminal custody. It is clear that a future reaction will also have to go into a discussion about some of the means we are using today in criminal matters, and that in this way we will also move the funds in relation to the reactions we choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e281	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e284	I am glad that Storberget thinks that it is healthy, but I must say that when it comes to child protection, it is not very healthy. We have a child protection that is in deep crisis and shows an obvious lack of action. I'm not going to criticize this Council of States for that, it's another Council of States that gets an answer for that. But when there are questions about adding new tasks to child protection, and we're talking about criminally charged children, it's clear that the question of being able to keep track of ordinary disciplinary problems in child protection is getting up, and we're seeing today that they're not being handled. This is because there is a lack of legal basis for imposing coercive measures, for example: investigations, closure of sites, search, etc. Does the Council of State think it's time to see if there's anything to do with the foundation of child protection so that you can solve this issue, and that at least it's highly up-to-date in relation to housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e290	I can also say yes. Both the notified studies that the protection of children has now said should be done in relation to specific individual events, and to the extent that the discussion is now about compensation in relation to minors, it is precisely up-to-date with these questions. And it's clear that this sample, which I have now mentioned several times, which is going to go through and look at the use of the instrument, will have to look at what kind of coercive child protection actually has up against what criminal care has. One of the main arguments for keeping it in criminal custody is that criminal services have a drug use that is not available in child protection. But at the same time, I have to worry about saying that most children who are being convicted today – and fortunately there are relatively few – are being convicted of far less serious matters than the individual cases we read about in the newspapers, and are sitting with relatively short judges. For these, the government believes that we can obviously find a reaction pattern that is not dependent on the most stringent coercive substances either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e295	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e298	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. The number of prostitutes has increased considerably in Norway. Many women come here from Eastern Europe and from Africa for prostitution. Some are sent by cynical backers; others come here driven by bottomless poverty. In a modern democracy and a society of justice, we cannot sit calm and look at this. It's about serious violations of human dignity. It is important to expand and improve the provision of help to the prostitutes. They must meet with respect and be given a real alternative to prostitution. Sweden adopted a ban on the purchase of sex in 1999. There they have not seen the same trend in the number of foreign prostitutes. If several countries prohibit the purchase of sex, the basis for the purchase of sexual services will fall away and will contribute to the reduction of trafficking in human beings and prostitution in a global perspective. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government is concerned about this situation and will do something to reduce human trafficking and prostitution. But we're recording that the government is reluctant in terms of the law ban. Two out of three government parties have passed a law ban, and we know that the debate is now in the Council of State's own party. Several opponents of criminalisation have changed their minds and positions because one looks at positive experiences from Sweden. Women and children are no merchandise, and therefore the Christian People's Party has proposed a law ban. We believe that a ban will do something to our positions, and the Labour Party representative Marit Nybakk said in a debate in Stortinget last year: ‘The prohibition of laws has always been a preventative measure. That is why we must dare to take this debate. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State agree that the prohibition of law creates attitudes, and that what is lawful is ok, and what is not lawful, is not ok?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e312	Yes, I agree that prohibitions can create attitudes. It is an important part of both the general preventative part of a criminal offence and the individual prevention to the individual. But this is not a simple question. I am pleased that the questioner's party takes this up, and also good forces in my own party, and that the Workers' Party has such a roof height that we can have this debate. At the very least, it focuses on one of the greatest challenges of our time: how we can stop this kind of slave trade, which is really about, and there I have strong concerns about introducing solutions and laws that are being rested against other measures. The government has so far said in its plan to combat trafficking in human beings that we believe that time is not now in place to impose such a legal ban, but we have been open to looking at and reaping experiences from our Nordic neighbouring countries, especially Sweden, and we believe that the situation is not as clear and as clear as any later to believe that it should also be in terms of the criminalisation of hordes. The government has chosen a wide range of instruments, including the representative, to combat trafficking in human beings. The extension of the reflection period for the girls who are here – they can be longer in this country and get in touch with the police so that we get the backers – the fact that we are now giving the aid lawyer for human trafficking victims before the notification is submitted, that you build reception centres, that you spend a lot of money on return projects, and at all events now build up a separate group in the Oslo police to deal with these difficult issues, especially in order to be able to take those who organize it, I think it is incredibly important, I hope that precisely that kind of action will help us to see a continued decline in the number of those who walk on the streets here in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e319	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I agree that there are a number of measures that need to be taken. We have to take care of the prostitutes, we have to take care of both the backers and stop the crime that way, and we have to give the prostitutes a real alternative. However, the editorial in today's newspaper says: ‘The time has come from the argument that a ban will make the situation worse for the prostitutes.’ We need to look at a device that is so comprehensive that we can do something about the whole situation when we propose a law ban – you have to see the whole thing. Is it not true that in a modern democracy, in a legal society, there are all demands for protection, including for prostitutes? It is my claim that the trafficking in human beings we see today is the modern slavery of our time. Aren't we allowed to settle this slavery?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e329	We have to settle it, but it has to be done on many teams. It is clear that it is complicated to find simple solutions to such a comprehensive and complex problem. When it comes to protecting the girls on the street, we know that the picture is nuanced. Many of the girls say that they are afraid that criminalisation will create more problems for them, that there is a greater need to get backers, more need to get back organizers who can get them transports, apartments, etc. If a law ban comes into force — that is, a lot of the business is hidden, goes underground, as someone has chosen to name it as. Clearly, we should have respect for that. What the girls now claim to some extent also in the public debate, that much of the fear and insecurity attached to being subjected to violence and abuse in the prostitution situation could increase if one criminalises, is also an argument that I believe we should have the utmost respect for. I think all parties agree that there is one human being in this traffic that you need to focus on, and it is the prostitute -- it is the girl who comes either from Africa or from other parts of the world, and who is actually struggling in bottomless social distress. All the measures we are going to implement will help to help her.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e338	There will be follow-up questions – first Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e341	First, I'm going to give the Council of State the honor of being a person who I've perceived doesn't automatically resort to a criminal ban to remove things that are difficult. We had a debate in the previous big deal about lifting the ban on begging, assuming that a law ban was not automatically solved. Nor can it be that you automatically prohibit everything you don't like or appreciate. In this way, this is kind of parallel to the debate on sex purchases. I have seen it so that the Council of State has also here been clear, so far at least, even though he today indicates that one should discuss all perspectives. I could imagine if the Council of State has any thoughts about what negative consequences it would have, to a greater or lesser extent, if you were to ban sex sales here in the country. In this way, how were we going to deal with the outcomes that come after? Of course, we can ban it because we don't like it and because it hits us in a way we don't want to, but at the same time we will have new challenges. I could imagine hearing if the Council of State has any thoughts about what negative consequences such a ban might have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e350	The negative consequences of this are often found in the motives for promoting such a proposal, and in something that is often the underlying reason for promoting penalties at all, first of all the fact that politicians often have a urge to act without actually helping. We have a legal ban today against buying sex from minors, which we know is very difficult to investigate, and it can be a resting place for us in relation to the serious crime it is in reality having sexual relations with minors and to all over buying it. It's very difficult to investigate. We see the same situation in Sweden, where in 1999, when this ban came, there were seven things of very small size. So it really wasn't very effective in that action when you looked at the number of cases. The second is that it often seems renovating, so that it gets the girls away from public space and things out of sight, out of mind, and in such a way that we forget that much of the punishment would be a disaster for many of the girls.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e359	André Oktay Dahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e362	The right share the intention to fight prostitution and to enforce the ban on trafficking, but the most important thing, as the council of state was about, is to do things that work, and that actually help the women and men, girls and boys, who prostitute themselves. I also believe, like the Council of State, that the debate should not become a sort of petty-bourgeois party political competition. At the same time, the Right also believes that we must take into account all the people in Oslo who do not think it is possible to be attacked by aggressive prostitutes downhill as soon as the clock is over 17.00. The first signals from Sweden show that the market has only moved a little, and even Swedish justice politicians have actually come to realize that the prostitutes are back out on the street and offer their services. In Norway, the internal market is already significant. There may be even greater criminalisation, even without the newspaper's contribution on the advertising pages. How will the Council of State facilitate an experience-based broad review of the theme, based on the proposal that is being promoted here, so that we take decisions here in the Grand Council based on knowledge and not on prejudices, and actually help the boys and girls, men and women, who are involved in prostitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e372	I think it's important to have a good discussion and a good process in relation to such an important question. After all, until next year, the majority will be presented with a completely new special criminal law, that is, a law describing all the relevant criminal orders that are not contained in the special legislation. It is certainly important to establish at least some principles of what should be prohibited in Norway and what should be lawful. What are we going to spend the police's resources on, and what are we not going to spend the police's resources on? What's effective, and what's not effective? I believe that much of this discussion should be channelled into the issue of new criminal law, as the Stortinget is presented to next year, and as we are likely to debate at the end of 2008 or the beginning of 2009. So I think it is important that we now also have so much ice in our stomachs that we wait and see what kind of assessment Sweden is doing in connection with its legal ban. As far as I have learned, Parliament has asked for a new evaluation of how this ban works, and it would be incredibly important that we also benefit from the experience gained in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e379	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e382	In order for there to be no doubt about it, I would say to the Minister of Justice that he should have full praise for having followed up the line that has now been followed in Norway for many years, to go after the backmen in human trafficking, and that in that context he has not hesitated to make sure that the police are organized in such a way that it is sufficient and good. My background for the question is enough that if I had not had close contact through my work in the Church's Bymission, I would probably have been in favour of a ban on sex purchase for politically correct reasons. What I learned at the time through other and wise people was that it's really hard to take a stand on behalf of someone you think should help, if you say afterwards that you haven't even asked them or heard them. So my question to the Council of State is, how will he make sure to obtain e.g. The views of prostitutes – we know that many of them are in a socially depressed situation – and make sure that it is also part of the debate that needs to be held on a case-by-case basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e389	I want a close dialogue with the groups working with the prostitutes in employment at the PRO centre in Oslo, and also directly with the prostitutes' sails, to hear the girls' perception of how the law ban would work. I think it is important now to start work on, in particular, the specific aspect of criminal law, that work – not just in this area – is being carried out broadly in relation to several areas of criminal law. This is why the Government has taken the initiative to have both consultations and meetings in the whole country on criminal law. We've already had a big meeting in Bergen. We're planning to have hit points in Oslo as well, and it's going to be natural that the question of not only the criminalisation of whores, but also whether the sexual law could otherwise be so broad that we had forums where the prostitutes were heard. I'm open to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e396	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e399	For the debate, it must be appropriate to say that it is the sex purchase itself that is about criminalizing. It is heard in part of the speeches that the prostitutes are also to be criminalised. It is completely wrong and nothing that is on the agenda of neither the Christian People's Party nor the parties of others, as far as I know. So the government council said "good forces" in its own party working for a law ban. I think they do that, in cooperation with other parties, so that we can deal with an increasing degree of human trafficking and take the prostitutes, in the first place, seriously to improve their situation. That's the starting point. When we look at Sweden, there is no doubt that the amount of prostitution has fallen, and that there is no evidence to suggest that it has become a more difficult situation for the prostitutes. So my question to the Council of State is: does everything from Sweden not mean that it is the right way to go in order to reduce the scale of the human trafficking we see here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e408	As I said, I do not want to draw such a bastful conclusion from the experience of Sweden. With regard to the extent of prostitution, there is a debate in Sweden about how much of the person who may have moved indoors, so that neither one nor the other can say about it. I hope that the assessment that the Swedes are now going to make in relation to the law-enforcement ban will be more able to monitor exactly that. The PRO Centre has reported that there has been some decline in prostitution in the street environments in Oslo, so we need to have a nuanced approach to the situation here in Norway. Then I have to repeat: I am glad that all parties have put this on the agenda, because it helps us to focus more strongly on a part of both the fight against crime, especially with regard to the backers and the pimps, and also on social policy, which I believe has been voted on for many, many years. You get an increased pressure on the whole human trafficking issue, which I think the government's human trafficking plan is just helping you travel. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e419	I would like to ask the Minister of Culture a question. When the Minister of Culture was a magnificent representative, he waged a fine fight for transparency. That's my starting point for today's question, because a Culture Norway is really a special challenge in terms of transparency and transparency. The state is the main source of income for very many of the cultural parts of our society, and the state has enormous power of cultural policy. In cultural policy, counter-power is needed, counter-measures are needed, counter-environments are needed. Yeah, that's probably one of those fields where disagreement for the sake of the disagreement actually has a self-value. However, under this Council of State we have been increasingly signaled by both researchers and journalists that cultural bureaucracy is becoming more and more closed, and access to the cultural bureaucrats is becoming more difficult and more difficult. I have also experienced that as an opposition politician, for example. will take several weeks to obtain access to documents when asked. Sick factual information shall be subject to political guidance. There is also a lot of power in state institutions on the cultural side. There, the Council of State is doing a profitable job of getting more women in, but there are very closed processes, and it's worried the Left that we don't get any debates related to the recruitment of those jobs. I have not seen that concern at the Council of State. That's why I ask the Council of State: why isn't the Council of State concerned with this? Why has the council chosen to run a style where he closes his department instead of opening it? And why do you not want the open debate and open access to information in the field of culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e428	I fully agree with the representative that there is a need for transparency about the allocation systems, advice and selections and judgements that are held in cultural life. There are a lot of people who depend on the money you get from these tips and samples. I think transparency is one of the ways we both ensure the quality of that work, assure us against camaraderie and outside considerations and ensure that we can always have a debate on what kind of criteria are underlying. Of course, in the case of public documents from the Department, correspondence and the kind of things, the Public Service Act applies in full. We're trying to facilitate this, both for representatives and others asking for information. But it's a little interesting that the representative refers to researchers, because I guess she referred to what's been in the media that some researchers have had problems getting information from the department. That's absolutely right. It's a matter that comes from the time of the previous government. So it's been several years since this case started, so here you'll probably get in touch with those you might know from the government period when we had the Bondevik government. We want to do very well also for researchers who want to test the cultural bureaucracy, study it, look at how to get less bureaucracy, more transparency and more culture for money, because there are measures we want to implement. Among other things, some of what we did in the 2007 state budget. to decentralise some allocation schemes both from the Ministry of Culture and from the Council of Culture to the institutions and to the municipalities, so that the decisions were to be taken more closely where people were and spread more so as to achieve a smaller accumulation of power in few hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e437	Most of the articles are probably related to journalists today, but also to the experience we as opposition politicians have. But I will leave it behind and rather follow up on it. Spreading power is quite important in the cultural world. It is absolutely right that the Council of State has delegated some of the tasks. You have a desire to raise the appropriations on culture, but just use the usual, old channels to distribute the money. So my follow-up question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State have no idea that one might have to look at the way we distribute cultural money in order to be able to spread power more, not only locally, but also form a counter-power to the state, get to distribution channels that make it impossible to put all power ever closer to the Council of State's own hands, but that one might have someone who dares to exercise that counter-power, without being afraid that the Council of State can intervene in the processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e446	We spend a lot more money on culture in 2007. We're increasing the cultural budget by nearly half a billion dollars -- it's the increase of times and a completely different pace than before. We're doing the cultural promise. At the same time, it is important to see that the money is spent well, that we do not end up with more bureaucrats, but less, and that the money goes to the artists. Then we also want the greatest possible freedom for the individual artist. Then it's wrong as the representative says, that we're now centralizing power. On the contrary, we decentralise power to the artists themselves and to the institutions – out of the departments and out of the Council of Culture. The Cultural Council is, in so far as it is a counter-power to the Ministry of Culture and the Stortinget, because there are independents and there are artists' representatives and other cultural professionals. They have been strengthened their budget, relatively, in relation to the other cultural budget – for the first time, I think, since it was established.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e454	There will be two follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e457	It's very interesting to hear from the Council of State when he's talking about a decentralization of the distributions from the Council of Culture. The Progress Party has for a number of years pointed out and seen the danger of having a cultural elite in Oslo and distributing the money to the country – and insofar as it also distributes the money to itself. There are an incredible number of those in central cultural positions who also receive financial support from the state. Now, as far as the representative Skei Grande was concerned, that was the case. The Progress Party has proposed new ways of financing culture, including: through the funds. I wonder if the Council of State is going to look at another way to distribute the money, and wind up the Council of Culture as it is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e464	No, we're not going in to wind up the Cultural Council. We think we need an artistic independent body at national level to distribute a lot of money for artistic reasons. The whole idea behind that structure is that politicians should govern the framework, but then the choice between different theatre sets and compositions or whether it or that tour should be supported should be artistically based. We politicians don't have to go into that. It is a design that the Council of Culture must take care of – and we need to take care of that. So I think some of the decisions can be moved out to the artists and the cultural institutions themselves. That's why we, for example. took the support scheme for museums, support schemes for local concert actions and some other schemes and left it to artists, cultural workers and institutions around Norway. We will continue because it strengthens the freedom and independence of the institutions. It reduces bureaucracy and spreads power. So that's a line we're going to continue with. But we need a strong cultural council that also takes the artistic discretion at national level and manages it, regardless of us politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e471	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e474	This round has become a debate on openness/closeness – it can be seen formally, but it can also be seen in relation to heavy political processes. As a magnificent representative, I remember the openness of the Council of State Giske at the beginning of the debate on the State-Church – I remember it from a lot of rounds in this Chamber. We who have been following state council Giske for many years know that he has a significant ability to be agitator and use definitions. Recently, the Council of State has received some attention when summarising the State-Church hearings. Using centimeter targets to measure the amount of opinions of the Norwegian Council of Churches, and then comparing it with that of the Council of Free Churches and other bodies, might say something about whether it is an expression of transparency or the use of ruler. Does the Council of State think that life sentences have been treated, including those Christian organizations that are not part of the Norwegian Church, in a fair, honest and open way, as he has now summed up the Church Hearing in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e483	If we just laid mathematical formulas on the basis of the summation, we would keep the Church of State as today. A majority of the hearing bodies are in favour. 85 pst. Of those belonging to the Norwegian Church, represented by the Councils, it is clear that they do not want a divorce. The majority want the order of the day. It's just 1.5 pst. of those who want a full distinction between state and church. But then we say from the Labour Party when we have now made proposals – because I guess that's what Dørum refers to, that despite that we should listen to the life-sensory minorities that have fundamental objections, among other things. against Section 2 of the Constitution, where it states that the State has a religion. There is a meeting between the majority who still want a state church, and the minority who have fundamental objections, that we are trying to find a compromise that takes care of both. It's not certain that our compromise is the perfect one, but at least it's an honest attempt to reconcile something that's almost incompatible. I also hope that this will be a broad solution, because that is what people in Norway need, to take care of an open, broad people's church, while at the same time taking care of the minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e488	We move on to the next main question – from Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e491	I have a question for the Minister of Justice about security in society, and not least security in Norwegian prisons. Unfortunately, serious incidents are occasionally occurring in Norwegian prisons, such as killings and serious rapes, both between prisoners and from prisoners to prisoners in prisons. It should worry the council very much – at least it worries Stortinget, I assume. This week there has been a very serious incident in Ring Kingdom prison, where an inmate now hovers between life and death. The lack of security within prisons has been worrying for a long time, not least has employees repeatedly pointed this out to the Council of State — and also to the Justice Committee in the context of the annual budget debates. At the same time, we have a government council that, to a great extent, at my discretion, is betting in open places, that more and more people are going out of prison and back to society. I might point out, perhaps in a parentheses, that the Council of State is the Norwegian Prime Minister in free slip, and an extraordinary discount last year came up against a special discount of 150 years. We've been looking up now to show that a convicted, well-known gentleman according to the media has manipulated the prison he's been in, to get more favorable and pleasant terms of settlement. At the same time, the Council of State has said that more and more people are going back and forth to society faster than before. Then I find it interesting to hear how far the Council of State is willing to go in terms of repatriating prisoners convicted of very serious crime and of serious attacks on Norwegian society. To what extent should they be released, and not least – what risk should Norwegian society, i.e. its citizens, have to bear through this experimental exercise initiated by the Council of State? Is it more important for the Council of State to remove the queue and be remembered as the Council of State which removed the queue at the expense of the safety of the Norwegian population?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e500	Here were many questions and many statements. I can't comment on everything, but a lot of it wasn't right. Firstly, it is important to remove the cows in Norway. It would be paradoxical if it was safer for people to stand in line and not come in to atoning and go out into society, instead of getting into some kind of atoning. So I think the most insecure thing we can go into is to let people stand two, three years in a shelter and get no response at all. I am pleased that the government now seems to succeed in bringing down the reconciliation queue. When we joined, and when we set in motion our action plan last April, six months after we joined, there were 2,700 in the queue. Now that's the number down to 2,100. We have a record bet in relation to new settlements in Norway, precisely because we want those who commit crimes to enter and get a zone. Now, when a record number of new prisons are established, over 300 in two years, it is quite clear that there is something that stands out in relation to the pay queue. It's not right that this is a bet that just goes in the direction of open settlements, as they say from the opposition. Now the government has started the construction of Halden Prison. We're going to spend over $1 billion on it. These are 251 enclosed spaces. In these 300, which I mentioned instead, there's also a lot of closed places. This is a bet that I perceive has broad support in Stortinget. So I don't see this as any experiment at all. We will have a significant increase in the number of closed locations, including security aspects in themselves, which will help secure society in relation to the most serious crimes, in order to make a living. It's quite obvious that we need more safe havens to take care of those who have committed the most serious crime. It's people who, today, are particularly attached to Ila, for whom we need more places, and who must not take into account the same good that other prisoners have, with parole and open atoning, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e509	I record that the Council of State and I have a different perception of reality, and that's kind of fine. When the Council of State claims to bet on closed sites, it is possible that he does so, but not much of it is happening now. What is going on in the budget and in action plans presented by the Government is essentially an open-ended effort, and more will be phased out to places with much less strict conditions than we would otherwise have. So I think that the Council of State must thus live in its own world. Then it is interesting to hear the Council of State's assessment of whether people who work in prison are so totally wrong when they claim that the ambition of the Council of State is at the expense of security. It is also at the expense of qualitative follow-up in prisons when there is only a one-sided focus on reducing queues – costing what it will cost. Once again, if the employees are wrong, what kind of oracle response, with respect to reporting, has the Council of State found out since he has a different reality from that of the employees in prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e516	Over the last year, I have spent a lot of time visiting all prisons in Norway — there are 52 of them. I have been inside every single one of them and have thus gone out and into Norwegian prisons. What has been at the heart of those visits has been the question of security, the question of staffing and the question of whether we are doing enough in relation to the content of housing, so that we do not create undue frustration in the institutions – which is also a very important security element. It is not the case that the report of the employees – we have met with the trustees too – shows that this is a safety issue. I have seen that, in particular, the KY, the Federal Bureau of Criminal Affairs, has claimed it. But it's not that this is a bunch of statements we get from the people in the criminal care department. During last year and this year, we spent nearly half a billion dollars and strengthened the content of the ransom, got more places and contributed to education in all prisons and also rusted up in relation to security, among others. on Ila. So I want to strongly distance myself from the reality description that this is something the government doesn't take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e526	There will be three follow-up questions – first Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e529	There is little doubt that we are dealing with a prisoner population who is increasingly demanding both the employees and the building stock in our prisons. The previous government provided the basis for the construction of a new Halden prison, which will provide a valuable grant of closed places when it is completed in 2009. However, we hear, and unfortunately more and more, that dangerous prisoners are being replaced by guards to give room to even more dangerous prisoners. The reason is natural enough that we do not have enough maintenance spaces and closed spaces. In addition, we know that for periods, the police are in a state of complete disorientation when it comes to custody. The government has so far established open prisons. My question to the Minister of Justice will be whether there are concrete plans for the establishment of new closed places during the period until Halden prison is put into service, including the following: to remedy the difficult situation of custody, so that criminals who should be incarcerated are actually in custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e540	After all, I listen with silence when representatives from the former government parties talk about this. During the entire previous government period, the number of settlement queues remained relatively high, compared to 2,800. You didn't take the grip that would help this number go down. Now we have a situation where the reconciliation queue goes away. There is reason to point out that people in pay queues have considerably shorter judges – 80–90 pst. the convictions are less than 60 days. It's people who are convicted of pro-mille driving, winning crimes, minor damage and some less serious violence episodes, for which one has to zone 30, 60 or 90 days. It's definitely important to us that they get a quick response, so they don't come back into the system. It's one of the most important things we can do to create less crime and more security in society. In the case of contributions to closed places, it is true that the previous government prepared the construction of Halden prison, but that was the appropriations it stood on. It's this government that gives money to it, so that we actually get the places. It is the case in criminal policy that it is not just useful to plan and say to do so. You have to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e547	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e550	Let's not talk more about Halden prison, except that it's good that it's being built. It was planned – not just for a purpose, but for a clear purpose to do so. I will, to the seated state council, show that it was also planned to double it, because one feared that Halden prison alone would not last. It was thought that there was also a need for prison places in Salten. I'm not going to go into the number of enclosed spaces. I'd rather ask the Council of State a question about something else. We know that the people who are in Norwegian prisons are very different. Some people are struggling with life. Some can return through open atoning and other ways, while others are very challenging. For my part, I have often chosen to call these not 'the tough guys', but 'the stupid guys'. I want to ask the Council of State question: does he have a feeling that you now have a differentiated criminal enforcement regime, which means that 'the fools don't trick the others who are in jail, and puts them in such a situation that they are hit by 'the lure guys' trick ways to deal with the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e559	This I think is a good problem. I don't have any sense that we've been aiming to get a differentiated enough criminal care based on the challenges we're facing. This applies in particular to the organised criminals. This also applies to custody, but not least – as I was involved in a previous question – concerns the younger offenders. That's where we're going. One of the most important measures taken by the Government during the last year is the expansion of education provision in all prisons. It contributes more to a slightly more nuanced response system. It also contributes to one such as starting with a vocational education, may get an early parole or get into an open settlement if he gets a apprenticeship, and get into work instead of in crime when he is once released. This type of thinking is important for the Government. I believe that this will be essential in order to reduce the return rate in prisons, which is too high. I believe that we just have to be able to do criminal care to think more nuanced and more individually than what we have done in the past. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e568	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e571	The Council of State today says that criminal justice is a budget win. He boasts that the settlement queues have become shorter, and that many open, new prison sites have been opened. The reality is that more and more criminals, serious criminals of violence, have been released in the past. They are transferred to open shelters to reduce settlement queues. In addition, we see that there is a large increase in gross crime. In their replies, the Council of State refers to the Ring Kingdom prison, which is one of the high-security prisons in Norway. Today the security locks in the Ring Kingdom prison are empty because you can't afford to man them. Does the State Council of Storberget think this is acceptable? What will he do to have these security locks manned?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e580	It is not true that today we are releasing more and more people out earlier than we have done in the past. There has been a discussion in connection with the resolution plan if further so-called release is to be achieved. The government has chosen not to go into it. We follow the same practice that the former government had in this respect: if you have a 90-day sentence, you get a release five days earlier. I've said many times, and I still know, that I don't think the former government was wrong. I don't think the current government is wrong when it comes to assessing these five days, that it's going to be crucial for Norwegian crime development. I can inform the questioner that when it comes to the issue of early release, the share of early release went down last year, during this government's first full year of government. We haven't gone into a practice where you're more free-handed than you've been before. When it comes to the issue of Ringerich Prison, I don't recognize the questioner's problem, based on the experience we have. I believe that the crew is sufficient to meet the needs you have in the Ring Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e589	Then the Storting goes to the last main question in the oral quiz.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e592	I have a question for the State Council, Solheim. Over the last 50 years, the number of people living in a democracy has been more than doubled. There is something for which the right side has worked actively, and we are actively working for further democratisation. Unfortunately, several countries have gone from democracy to dictatorship. Zimbabwe and Venezuela are two examples of this. Venezuela appears to be learning from Zimbabwe, both in terms of attacks on important democratic principles, in terms of land reform, and in terms of the nationalisation of businesses. This seems to be the government's main sponsor as well as the government council Solheim's own party to like. Jan Davidsen stated, well to mark after Valla's departure, that Hugo Chávez is his great model. He went on to say: ‘He is in the process of apprehending in a country where differences are high and poverty is widespread. He does as the labour movement has done in Norway: he uses the community to redistribute the resources.’ Isn't it time for the Government and the Government of Solheim to make demands for extensive democratic reforms in Venezuela instead of continuing with the praises of the one-sided ruler Hugo Chávez?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e607	Let me first say that I'm a little sorry that no one has asked questions about what a number of big business representatives have said about in the media on the wrong basis last day, namely the issue of health workers crisis in the poor part of the world. I had expected to get that question, since so many big business representatives have been so active in the public debate on it. But now leave it. I won't leave Gitmark for that. Gitmark, a forest cave, is developing two countries with significant democratic problems: Zimbabwe and Venezuela. Let me start with Zimbabwe. It is one of the most brutal dictatorships in Africa, one of the countries in the world and probably the country in all of Africa that has gone the longest — from being a relatively successful and economically well-functioning country to being one of the largest disaster areas in Africa today. I'm going to the region in the first week after Easter and will spend time talking to leaders both in South Africa and in Zambia, neighboring country, to discuss the situation in Zimbabwe. There is an identical view on the situation in Zimbabwe of the democratic right and the democratic left. As far as Venezuela is concerned, I am a little surprised that the right hand almost said every time democracy comes on the agenda, it seems to me that Chávez is the biggest democratic problem in the world. I think that's considerably exaggerated. But the situation in Venezuela is complicated. Chávez collects a lot of power in one hand. There is every reason to be concerned about this, especially because it has been seen that the concentration of power in one leader, even if it is done with democratic instruments, has not been beneficial in other Latin American countries. On the other hand, Chávez has implemented a number of social reforms which, at least in the short term, hopefully also in the long term, are of great importance. So Venezuela is a country with which we should engage in a dialogue on the concentration of power that takes place. We should pay tribute to the social reforms being introduced, expressing concern for Chávez’s friendship with some dictators in other countries for which we have very little sense, but it will be something on the side to see Venezuela as the biggest democratic problem on the globe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e620	I know Zimbabwe well after many visits there and know that one of the main reasons why the country is now in such a situation as it is now is that there were too few demands made at an early stage. The left side has chronically supported incorrect managers. Stalin was one of the heroes on the left. Mao was also a hero on the left. Ho Chi Minh was a big lighthouse on the left. Enver Hoxha got a visit from almost the whole left side. The list is the same length as it is unmerciful. Isn't comrade Solheim afraid that hero worship now by Venezuela's president Hugo Chávez just makes this list of left-wing tyrannicals one more name?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e627	Now we're at a level where I don't know if I'm gonna laugh or laugh. I dare to argue that there is not one person in this room who has spent a greater part of his time fighting dictatorship followers on the left, for example. of the ACP [[m-l]] Secondly, I believe that an exchange of what the democratic right-hand side and the democratic left-hand side have faced in terms of misinterpretation of the situation in different countries, very quickly ends with a draw. I'd like to go into a longer layout now, for example. on the US Vietnam War, which is one of the greatest crimes in the post-war period, one of the wars that killed most, on a pointless basis. Today we have the Iraq war. At best, the right has had a very unclear relationship with these two wars.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e634	There will be three follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e637	It was interesting to hear the Council of State taking a distance from almost all the party heroes to their own party through the history of this questioning. President Hugo Chávez has shown himself in many ways in the past, including: in the UN General Assembly, in which he referred to the President of the United States as a devil. Several of the SV's trustees have, in retrospect and in the past, been engaged in supporting Chávez, among others. Ågot Valle, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Bjørn Jacobsen. The last two even wanted Venezuela into the UN Security Council. The SV Youth Organisation, in a resolution, states the following: ‘Venezuela’s plans for nationalisation comply with the Soria Moria Declaration of the Norwegian Government’. It is a worrying opinion of a government party youth organisation, for the policy of nationalisation to Chávez is mildly controversial. I would like to get the State Council's comment on this comparison from his own youth organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e651	Let me first say that calculating Stalin as one of those to whom our party has expressed support over time, I see as just as meaningful as declaring Hitler to be the great idol of the Advance Party. We're at a level of hesitation that doesn't belong in Stortinget. So let's go over to discuss Chávez, which is more serious. What I'm concerned about is the form of confrontation that Venezuela's policy has, where Chávez gathers a lot of power in his hands, while his political opponents are unfortunately willing to use the military coup to try to remove him. Chávez is elected by democratic means – a choice that is accepted by the whole world. The Carter Centre, the EU and all those who observed the choice, considered this option acceptable. But despite the fact that Chávez follows democratic rules in his march, I am concerned that one man gathers so much power in his hands, because we have a long experience in Latin America, for example. With Péron in Argentina, so that even people who are democratically elected should not have too much personal power.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e658	The President will remind the Council of State that the word 'doubt' is on the list of words that we do not use in this Chamber about what others might think. Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e663	I'm going to stick to that question, and not to the question that the Council of State would like to have had. He is given the full opportunity to respond to this in the interpellation debate that has been scheduled in Stortinget over Easter. It might have been more appropriate if he had reserved his playoffs for that debate. This is not a question of a settlement of history, which Solheim knows very much about, but it is a question of a new turn in development policy in Norway towards Latin America and towards some regimes that show anything but the democratic mindset of which Solheim is a follower. In the extension of this, I would like to ask quite specifically about the policy of nationalisation of Chávez: does the Council of State of Solheim believe that it would be a fundamental right act of Chávez to nationalise Statoil and other oil companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e670	We are constantly asking whether it and that country should nationalize or privatize. My attitude is that I can't sit in Norway and be a sort of over-judge over whether it's right to nationalise the Venezuelan oil industry or privatise things within the health care system in Tanzania – to take two concrete examples. This has to be decided in these countries themselves. Norway cannot be a kind of international arbitration court for that. We have national control over a number of aspects of our oil business because we have thought it has served us. Whether others want to copy it in other parts of the world is their case. Venezuela is not a Norwegian aid country. Bolivia, on the other hand, is facing some of the same problems. Norway will not advise whether they should nationalise, but will present experiences of what we seem to have been successful here. Let me also say that the Right had two right-wing politicians, from Bolivia and Venezuela, visiting a month ago. I invited them to my office to talk to them, and there was no way of praising them. The representative from Bolivia welcomed Norway’s entry into Bolivia, and begged for Norway to make Bolivia an aid country. So it was a right-hand critic from Bolivia.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e679	Anne Margrethe Larsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e682	Latin America is again the subject of polarization and this time with Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, and President George W. Bush as the extreme. This was clearly demonstrated in connection with President Bush's recent visit to the region. The Minister of Development has, as you know, embraced the left wind blowing over the region with great enthusiasm and, although he has subsequently made some reservations about Chávez’s policy, the impression is that the line of the Minister of Development contributes to the polarisation that haunts Latin America. The question then is whether it would not have been a more constructive approach not to fall for the temptation to embrace their beliefs in Latin America. I think here, among other things. on President Morales in Bolivia. Instead, the Minister of Development could well apply for the role of bridge builder and be part of and strengthen the democratic rights that Norwegian foreign policy has been very well served in many contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e692	Here follows the Norwegian right-hand side – and here I include Left – not in the hour. I hope it's an acceptable language usage. So there are representatives of the opposition parties in many Latin American countries who, together with their authorities, want Norway to come in with assistance. In Bolivia it is completely unanimous. President Morales wants us to be there. But it also wants his right-wing opposition, which talks to the very widest Texas accent when I meet them. This is because they are just seeing Norway play a bridge builder role, because Norway is a country where opposition and position can work together. One of the projects we support in Bolivia is led by the former Secretary of State of Right Vidar Helgesen and his organization IDEA, who is just trying to play a bridge builder's role. But let us now agree that the democratic wind, which takes the form of a left wind, that celebrates over Latin America – in Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, it can land like Paraguay, it has arrived in Ecuador – is essentially a positive flow that deserves our curious interest and support. Then we can warn against individual phenomena that there is reason to warn against, like, too much concentration of power at Chávez.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-28.ana.ud1104e699	Thus, the oral questionnaire and the current map have been completed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
