ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e46	There are two letters from the Prime Minister's office to Stortinget. The first letter, dated 18 October 2007, reads: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 18 October 2007 at 2.30 p.m. 1600 is determined: City Council Helen Oddveig Bjørnøy, State Council Karita Bekkemelm and State Council Øystein Kåre Djupedal is dismissed from office as a member of the King's Council of 18 October 2007 at 2.30 p.m. 17.15.Head of department Manuela Ramin-Osmundsen is appointed State Council and takes over from 18 October 2007 at 5.30 p.m. 17.15 The Board of Directors of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Department for Anti-Discrimination in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. 17.15 Administrative Board of the Ministry of the Environment. He retains responsibility for managing development matters in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.State Secretary Bård Vegar Solhjell is appointed State Council and takes over from 18 October 2007 at 9.30 p.m. 17.15 Administrative Board of the Ministry of Children’s Home Affairs and Training. State Council Solhjell also assumes administrative responsibility for the Ministry of Knowledge.Fylkesmann Tora Aasland is appointed State Council and will take over from 18 October 2007 at 2.30 p.m. 17.15 The Management Board of Universities, Higher Education Affairs, Research Finance and Vocational Education Affairs of the Ministry of Knowledge. 17.15:State Secretary Bård Vegar Solhjell for Prime Minister Jens StoltenbergState Secretary Henriette Westhrin for State Council Helen Oddveig BjørnøyState Secretary Kjell Erik Øie for State Council Karita BekkemelmState Secretary Lisbet Rugtvedt for State Council Øystein Kåre DjupedalState Secretary Per Botolf Maurseth for State Council Øystein Kåre DjupedalState Secretary Kjersti Markusson for State Council Kristin Halvorsen is hereby appointed Secretary of State from October 22, 2007. 17.15:State Secretary Henriette Westhrin as State Secretary for State Council Kristin HalvorsenStanding Representative Heidi Sørensen as State Secretary for State Council Erik Solheim in Environmental ProtectionState Secretary Kjell Erik Øie as State Secretary for State Council Manuela Ramin-OsmundsenState Secretary Lisbet Rugtvedt as State Secretary for Council Board Vegar SolhjellProject Director Jens Revold as State Secretary for Council Tora AaslandState Secretary Kjersti Markusson is appointed State Secretary for Minister Jens Stoltenberg from 22 October 2007. The second letter, dated 19 October 2007, reads: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 19 October 2007, at 1 p.m. 11.00: Appointment of political adviser Erik Lahnstein to the State Secretary of the Council of State Liv Signe Navarsete.’ The letters referred to shall be annexed to the minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The former members of the Government, Karita Bekkemelm and Øystein Djupedal, take the seat of representatives. The first alternate for Oslo, Akhtar Chaudhry, takes the seat as a representative of the time the representative Heidi Sørensen is Secretary of State. The representatives of Øyvind Halleraker, Inger S. Enger, Truls Wickholm, Eirin Kristin Sund, Gunnar Kvassheim, Gunvald Ludvigsen, Bård Hoksrud and André N. Skkelstad, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: 1st@item: inlistbox For Vest-Agder County: Kjell Ivar LarsenFor Akershus County: Cathrin BretzegFor Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid SvendsenFor Troms County: Knut Werner HansenFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Ellen SamuelsenFor Sør-Trøndelag: Knut Gravråk From the Socialist Group of the Left-wing Group, there is an application for welfare leave from the representative of Øystein Djupedal from 23 October to 23 November. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, is called to meet during the period of leave. Ingvild Maggen Malvik is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e184	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinges meeting this week. The representative of Per-Kristian Foss will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e191	On behalf of the representative Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I have the honour to make suggestions to reintroduce the right to cancel the list candidates at municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e196	The representative, Ulf Leirstein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e199	On behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions on improving the position of taxpayers in disputes and improving the situation of people with debt problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e204	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Following an opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee, cases are proposed. 1 and 2 treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e231	As the President said, we are dealing with the report on Nordic cooperation and the report from the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council as a whole. I am therefore going to essentially concentrate on the big message in width. The representatives of the delegation to the Nordic Council will then take note of the parliamentary cooperation of the year that went on. However, I would be allowed to say at the outset that we are quite impressed with the report from the Nordic Council and that parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic region works very well. So I want to say that groceries aren't always the most exciting thing you read. But St.meld. No In fact, 41 are exciting, because Nordic cooperation is currently in a very dynamic period, whether it concerns the work of the Council of Ministers, the active foreign policy of the Government or the parliamentary cooperation of the Nordic Council. At the beginning of October, the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Bodø was with his colleagues from Sweden and Finland. There, ministers discussed cooperation on foreign and security policy. They were even at Landsdelskommando North Norway where they were briefed on developments and challenges in the north. It's not that many years since this would have been completely impossible. However, the former lines of security policy between Norway, Sweden and Finland are today a ‘cooperative space of opportunity’ — as Jonas Gahr Støre expressed it in a lecture a few days ago — a meeting between NATO and the EU in a common geography and international perspective. It was not until the mid-1990s that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence of the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers was able to make a presentation to the Nordic Council. I myself sat at the Nordic Council in 1997, and it was new and exciting what started to happen then, that we could also discuss security policy issues. Norway is now participating in the EU 'batlegroups' under Swedish leadership. Both Sweden and Finland have PfP status in NATO and participate in NATO operations. Both Norway and Denmark have signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Iceland on security policy after the Americans withdrew from the Keflavik base at relatively short notice. Cooperation with Iceland is largely concerned with monitoring sea areas, in view of a sharp increase in oil cargo and other civil traffic. Of course, increasing Nordic cooperation focuses on our north-eastern policy: political dialogue, business cooperation, joint arenas and networks for research and development of competences and, as I said, foreign and defence policy. In June, two important things happened: a ministerial meeting on the Baltic Sea Cooperation in Malmo and a meeting in Tromsø where both the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs attended with a heavy business delegation. Norway is currently chairing the Arctic Council and the Arctic Parliamentary Committee. Following us is Denmark and Sweden. Due to their composition, these bodies are essential for tackling the climate challenges in Arctic areas. At the ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in October 2006, there was agreement to continue the process of collecting knowledge on climate change. Norway has proposed a project to assess the status and impact of climate change in the north. This weekend, the Arctic Parliamentary Committee met in Ottawa, Canada. We shall certainly hear more about this later in the debate. It is important for us to include parliamentarians from countries such as Canada and the United States in the development of worrying climate change for the environment in Arctic areas. This also applies to Russia, but Canada and the United States are important. That is why the Foreign Affairs Committee is moving to Canada in the spring. In 1997, Finland launched the concept of the EU’s northern dimension. Both the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers made a rapid commitment to help fill the EU’s northern dimension with content. But in the EU there has been a lot about and about – and back and forth – the northern dimension. Finland has now again been a driver and a driver of the new northern dimension, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. The importance of the participation of Norway, Iceland and Russia as equivalent partners with the EU in the northern dimension cannot be overestimated. This work should also involve Barents’ cooperation and bilateral cooperation between Norway and Russia. During the Nordic Council last year's session, the new arrangement with a Nordic summit created an interesting debate. The theme was «Development of the Nordic region as a global winner region». I think that the focus on the Nordic welfare model should be mentioned here as an important competitive factor for growth and industrial development. I also want to add that there was a lot of emphasis on research and innovation at this very summit. The Norwegian Prime Minister also stressed the need to take global responsibility and welcomed the establishment of a Nordic Council of Globalisation. Let me also underline the importance of Nordic cooperation in combating trafficking and prostitution. Common Nordic action is necessary to those countries that are suppliers of prostitutes to the Nordic countries, and unfortunately they are also located in our neighbourhoods. This cooperation must also lead to new pathways. The EU must provide for common provisions and measures in individual Member States to a far greater extent than today. We have to remember that trafficking in human beings is the slave trade of our time and represents the negative sides – if that's what it's supposed to be – at the new open borders. In fact, trafficking in human beings has passed both drug trafficking and arms trafficking in the last year as a source of income for international mafia. We must bring this to life, with all the means at our disposal also in Nordic cooperation. I also put emphasis on this because around the corner here there are 'jobs' Eastern European girls who don't know anything about our welfare model, who don't know Nordmarka or our fjords, but who are slaves in apartment-based prostitution. Guys from high school in Oslo are increasingly making their sexual debut with prostitutes. This is demeaning. There is a setback for Norwegian gender equality policy and a setback in the view of women and women. There will be a lot of good here in Norway, and more action will be taken. It is doing a lot of good both in the internal police work and internationally to combat trafficking. But we need to have even stronger international cooperation. So honour the representatives of the Nordic Council for the initiatives taken to combat trafficking also from the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e261	I may seem a little tired today, but last night the gold came «home», and I would like to congratulate Brandn on the Norwegian championship. So to the matter. Nordic cooperation is important, both because we are thus included, even though we as countries are outside, and because the Nordic countries have a long tradition of cooperation and brotherhood. It is important that we all have an opinion that the Nordic region is one region, but not in such a way that some still believe that Norway is the capital of Sweden. The Nordic region should also take the challenges in the north seriously, and together, it is definitely becoming stronger. Cooperation between the Nordic countries and neighbouring countries, both east and north-west, is important in order to build networks and to share competences. Still, it's probably the more nearby things, literally, that we should first get to grips with and get to order. This applies to frontier barriers, which, of course, are tangled up for most people, and no one really understands why is there. Why should it be so difficult to travel between Norway and Sweden? Since Norway is in the European Union’s periphery, there will obviously be some issues that we can’t deal with – at least for the time being. However, Norway may seem to be a country where most of the obstacles lie, and I hope that the Nordic Council of Ministers will soon be able to find solutions to some of these ‘kidney-on-mountain’ rules. Of other things that it is very important that the Nordic countries cooperate on, crime is organised across borders. As the rapporteur of the case also pointed out, this concerns in particular the trafficking of women and children. We have to fight together to stop this unworthy and inhumane way of treating and using people. It is good to see that Nordic police cooperation works, and that we have managed to achieve unbureaucratic and well-functioning cooperation in the fight against trafficking and organised crime. I still want us to remind each other that it still comes about. 200 children to Norway via trafficking, sold from their home country or country of origin. That's who we can catch. It is likely that there will be some going through Norway and going out into the sex industry in Europe. We have to keep fighting this as long as there's energy in us. The Progress Party has put forward proposals in the Nordic Council and has been adopted by the Bureau to hold a conference to try to get a joint action plan on violence in close relations. This is fully in line with the Council of Europe's three-year action, and it is very positive that the Nordic Council can also work together at this level – very well! But then there's something that's not quite as good. It must be allowed to question all the Nordic Council working groups. Do we need them? What are they doing? Very familiar it is approx. 150 working groups in turn on behalf of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers. Is it the case that these working groups rarely finish their projects, or are there often new working groups being set up? What specifically does Norway and the Nordic countries get back from all these working groups? It's worth asking yourself as long as you're involved in funding these groups. The second question I want to address in this context concerns cooperation. I think there is reason to ask the question of why discrimination against political parties is allowed in the Nordic Council. In particular, I think that some parties at national level are not allowed to participate in decision-making processes and are totally dependent on what other parties place in the committees, in order for some members to be able to participate in the various committees. As an example of this, I can mention that there are five committees – or ‘committees’, as it is called – in the Nordic Council. The Progress Party has five representatives – or members – of the Nordic Council. That would mean that we would have one place in each ‘committee’. We don't. This should be looked at by the Bureau. The Progress Party will also, in the course of the year, promote a proposal for an amendment of the Statute so that it no longer requires five members from three different countries, but that it holds five members, in order to form a party group. This could lead to everyone being included in the various processes of the Nordic Council. That large batches are treated as a paria caste is not a contribution to cooperation and community. It is time to revise the Statutes of the Nordic Council, so that all are equivalent and all are treated in the same way. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that I believe in Nordic cooperation and Nordic cooperation, and that this is necessary at a time when the Nordics are under pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e282	I find with surprise and some satisfaction that most things can be seen in a Nordic perspective, including the Norwegian serial gold in football. I think that's positive. I guess the basis for putting it into that perspective is the observation that the only nationality that is not represented on the gold medal winner team is the mountain. The position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is unanimous this time. I also note that with satisfaction. As we know in the years to come, we have often had dissidents in the position of Nordic cooperation, which has partly expressed principleal scepticism against Nordic cooperation in general, and more specifically against certain practical aspects of Nordic cooperation. The fact that this time the Foreign Affairs Committee has gathered on a unanimous position which gives a very strong expression of faith in the opportunities of Nordic cooperation, I think it is positive. However, there is a wording in the wording of the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee that I have given a little pause to, and that is the wording that says: ‘The Committee will stress that Nordic cooperation is under pressure and that cooperation in the region will become increasingly important.’ This finding that Nordic cooperation is under pressure, I am not quite sure that I have got the idea. Usually, such an expression is interpreted in such a way that a particular type of cooperation is in difficulty or is subject to attacks of one kind or another. That is, as far as I have registered, not the case. Both in the Grand Duchy and in the other Nordic parliaments, it seems to me that the problem is rather the opposite, that there is in some way too little disagreement, in the sense of taking Nordic cooperation as given and as a matter of course. It is positive from one point of view, and it also reflects the opinion, at grassroots level, in all Nordic countries, because all the opinion polls show that Nordic cooperation is something the Nordic countries want and stand behind. On the other hand, it can easily be that what creates no controversy of any kind politically, it's not particularly significant, nor is it given particular priority. It is probably the challenge of Nordic cooperation, that there are so many untapped opportunities. How are we going to make these untapped opportunities really catch up and be realized? It is well where the major challenge lies, both in terms of government cooperation between the Nordic countries and in terms of parliamentary cooperation between the Nordic countries. The second part of the sentence I quoted, that cooperation in the region will become increasingly important, I think quite clearly is a correct observation. On the one hand, the Foreign Affairs Committee points out that regional cooperation in general is becoming increasingly important in the new European architecture. The second is that precisely our region — the northern region of Europe — has some special and quite striking challenges in terms of the major issues of today’s policies, environment, not least, and energy issues, but also in terms of security policy and stability in relations between countries. It is interesting to note, when looking back a little, that the efforts the Nordic Council could make in the 1990s with regard to Baltic Sea cooperation, and in helping the Baltic countries to find their political path further, both domestically and externally, are now institutionalised in a way that makes the formula 5+3 – i.e. the five Nordic countries plus the three Baltic countries – into the political vocabulary as a technical term. I had the pleasure of representing Norway on a 5+3 expedition to Georgia a few weeks ago. I've been on a similar expedition to Ukraine in the past. The interesting thing is that in those countries that today strive most politically to find their place after the Soviet Union went into disintegration, Nordic-Baltic cooperation is seen both as a hugely interesting model of cooperation and as an interesting model for political partners in a neighbourhood that we all know is full of political problems and challenges. There's a potential for Nordic-Baltic cooperation that I think we should be very conscious of, because it's a political factor that weighs, and that means something to those countries that are in the most vulnerable position in relation to their powerful neighbour Russia. It is also interesting to note that, on the initiative of the Nordic Council, we had a seminar with politicians from Belarus at the latest this month – both on the part of the official regime and on the part of opposition groups – together with our Baltic friends and the other Nordic countries. As far as I understand, the experience with this was extremely positive. This shows that Nordic–Baltic cooperation also has a potential at the informal level to help resolve the most entrenched situations in our own neighbourhoods. So it is certainly true that the regional aspect and the relationship with our eastern neighbourhoods are an increasingly important part of Nordic cooperation. It is worth pointing out that cooperation in the area that has been almost taboo in the past also in the relationship between good Nordic neighbours, namely purely defence policy and military cooperation, is now emerging in a new form, how many of the old security barriers that were present due to different alliances for the Nordic countries are no longer present, and makes it possible today to develop closer cooperation in this area as well. It is very important to underline what the Foreign Affairs Committee is also saying, for example, clearly, that such cooperation today does not appear to be an alternative to, for example. NATO cooperation or intra-EU cooperation in defence and security policy. If it had appeared to be such an alternative, we would have been back in the situation where Nordic cooperation has again and again stranded if you go back to the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s – every time you have invested in Nordic cooperation as an alternative to further European or transatlantic cooperation, it has failed, and it has failed for good reason. Today, none of the countries perceive this as an alternative to – one sees it as a complement to and as a natural strengthening of – the cooperation that takes place within the NATO alliance and the cooperation that takes place within the EU. Let me just mention in passing that, of course, it would have been even easier to take advantage of the political gravity of Nordic cooperation — the potential political gravity — if the alliance and cooperation within NATO and the EU had been the same for all Nordic countries. In certain situations it would have given the Nordic voice a political impact that it does not have today. In the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there is a section that refers to the Coexistence of Civilizations initiative, and I am also pleased to note that the Committee on Foreign Affairs attaches importance because there are opportunities in this. The phrase ‘Coexistence of Civilizations’ has been deliberately chosen as an alternative to the phrase ‘clash of Civilizations’. And it's a good choice because it puts its finger on the fact that “clash” – that is, collision, collision – between cultures and civilizations is not the only option that exists in the historical phase we're in. Too many people live in the belief that clashes and conflicts are inevitable. In some contexts and in some cases it may be true, but it has been easy to become a self-fulfilling prophecy if one believes that the total impact is a historical necessity that is not to be avoided. There is nothing in history that is a necessity. What happens is the result of human choices and human folly. That's why it's essential to get into our common collective consciousness that it's not inevitable. If you want to avoid full conflict, yes, it is simply a matter of choosing the strategies and procedures that allow you to engage in dialogue and interact with other cultures and traditions, and in this way find sensible solutions that do not involve violence between states or between groupings or individuals. The word ‘sivilization’ — when talking about ‘Coexistence’ or ‘Clash of Civilizations’ — in itself implies a moral requirement for the actors in terms of the instruments used, and in particular the means of refraining from using it. In this regard, I noted with great interest that no one less than the pope made an official statement a few days ago that has received significant media coverage, where he finds that no religion, without exception – no religion – has the right to legitimize or support the use of violence in any context or for any purpose. It also makes an important contribution because those who talk about civilisation clashes very often depend on the notion that it is the religions that are the problem – Islam or other religions. It is an important finding that religions have a clear duty to contribute to finding peaceful solutions to the conflicts that exist in today's world. Let me remind you that last year at the Nordic Council meeting in Copenhagen, there was an important insight into the work done by the Nordic Council in the context of the Coexistence of Civilizations, that integration policy is something other than a special sector alongside other policy sectors, which are particularly interested actors. Integration policies, if they are to be taken seriously, mean that all policy areas, from housing policy and urban planning to language policy, religion policy, etc., are to be seen from the point of view that the aim is to stay together instead of separating, that the aim is for all citizens, irrespective of the background, to have the same opportunities to make an effort for the benefit of the community, and that everyone should be subject to the same obligation to make a contribution to the benefit of the community. Let me finally return to the untapped opportunities of Nordic cooperation. Let me just exemplify it with some keywords that from the Norwegian point of view can be particularly topical and especially interesting. In the case of trade between the Nordic countries, and particularly between Norway and Sweden, there are clearly opportunities to call for the benefit of the population on both sides. It is and becomes incomprehensible in a time when we are more and more concerned with rail as an environmentally friendly and efficient means of transport, that we are unable to develop it positively in the east-west of Scandinavia. It is primarily a challenge for us Nordics to create a national transport policy that exploits that potential. As far as cultural policy is concerned, we in Norway are engaged in a national upgrade, and that is good and good. But also there I miss a conscious exploitation of the Nordic perspective. If we had been able to develop our Norwegian cultural policy more consciously from a Nordic perspective, we would probably have been able to achieve more for the increased resources we put into cultural policy activity. Finally, two key points: research and higher education. There, I would have almost said, the good cape fight, the competition between the Nordic countries, should encourage considerable increased efforts – and once again Norway is the worst in the class, without comparison the worst, despite being the country that has the greatest financial resources at its disposal. It is high time that we in Norway got out of the rest mode with regard to this particular sector, and also where we can gain inspiration and exploit better coordination with the other Nordic countries. A brief comment on the views of the representative Karin Woldseth on party cooperation in Nordic cooperation: It is timely to raise that question, and I think it is also a good thing if the representatives of the Progress Party in the Nordic Council will make a proposal within the Nordic Council framework to amend the rules of procedure that apply today to party groupings in the Nordic Council of Ministers. Without therefore predicting any position on the reality of the matter, there is good reason to go through that set of rules again. It has existed for so many years, and it was decided in a perhaps so different situation from today, that it may be well-founded. But, of course, as long as the legislation exists, you have to play within the regulatory framework you have, and per. Today, therefore, the minimum requirement to set up a party group within parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic region is that there are three of the Member States represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e323	During the first part of the opening remarks to the representative's salary, the President expressed the hope that the salary would finally proclaim Bergen as part of the Kingdom. He fell, however, upon that Bergen is a nation of his own. Nevertheless, in great respect for pay, the President will point out a logical flaw: The City of the Team, Bergen, must be part of the Kingdom, otherwise the creation could not have been the Norway Master. Here we are all winners!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e326	At a time of globalisation and free capital flows across national borders, political governance and social rights are under pressure. In this context, the Nordic region is a model, including the Nordic Council, as an intergovernmental form of cooperation. We have a lot in common in the Nordic region, we're neighbors and we have a lot in common. We are small countries, but are among the richest in the world, and we have succeeded in developing the most advanced welfare countries combined with economic prosperity. We have combined high standards and rights for people. Norway is at the top of the world in labour productivity. The north is at the top of the living conditions. Heidi Grande Røys is Minister for Nordic Cooperation. She is also the ICT Minister, and studies show that Norway and the Nordic countries are at the top of broadband access. It's not random. It's a result of a strong state involvement and a split layer between public and private, and it's called the Nordic model. I would like to highlight some areas that SV believes are particularly important in our cooperation in the Nordic Council – education and research, the north, climate and environment, and not least the fight against trafficking and prostitution. There is a strong need for cooperation between the Nordic countries to combat trafficking and prostitution. This is done by developing common Nordic measures to those countries that are today suppliers of prostitutes, and, above all, by providing women and children with protection, education, employment — and a future. SV is pleased that the Nordic Council is giving priority to joint education. A joint Nordic Master's programme, the Nordic Master's Programme, is now being established with the first student admission in the autumn of 2008. It shall help Nordic universities and higher education institutions to establish themselves internationally. The aim must be to develop and strengthen cooperation in the Nordic region around education, from primary school up to research environments. The Nordic region has a lot in common to deal with globalisation. Norway has actively supported the work of globalisation of the Council of Ministers, where education, research and innovation play a key role. It is about strengthening the Nordic welfare model through innovation and research. Cooperation between research and innovation is at the heart of NordForsk, which got its first strategy in 2006, and the Nordic Innovation Centre. Five Nordic research centres — two in welfare and three in healthy food — were also established in 2006. Secondly, it is important for Norway to involve the Nordic countries in an offensive Northern Region strategy. Norway has emphasised the importance of the Nordic region as a priority region in Arctic research. We know the incredibly important work of the Arctic Council, which consists of the five Nordic countries as well as the United States, Canada and Russia. The Nordic Presidency of the Arctic Council until 2013, and that leadership should be used well, not least to keep climate change and environmental concerns in the north on the agenda. The Arctic Council's report on climate change in the Arctic region was groundbreaking and a warning of the UN Panel's report that came this year. We need to strengthen efforts to prevent man-made climate change. They'll hit our areas particularly badly. Nordic environmental cooperation is extensive and should be further strengthened for years to come, and the Nordic region should appear as an environmental policy priority region. Finally, some try to reduce the importance of the Nordic Council’s cooperation. I believe that cooperation at the Nordic Council is extremely important, especially at government level, but also people for people-to-people cooperation and politicians-to-politicians cooperation. It is important that we have a cooperation based on building a Nordic region, based on peaceful traditions and interaction between good neighbours. The Nordic model is also a good example for the rest of the world. Strong community and good cooperation are important for individuals to unfold their lives. It is the Nordic model, and therefore the Nordic Council is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e352	I cannot resist the temptation to interfere in the discussion between the President and the representative on whether there is a logical lack of the representative's reasoning. Now there are rarely logical flaws in the representative's reasoning without it being mentioned. It's not that I feel the need to get paid to the rescue, but I heard the other day a reporter say the following on the radio: Today we're going to Ireland. We're going to visit the Norwegian oyster-eating champion. He's also Danish. So it's supposed to be Norway champion without being from Norway, obviously, at least in the case of oyster food. In a way, the statement is quite illustrative of the reality, the age in which we live, and the proximity of Norway to its neighbouring country. Nordic cooperation is about exactly that. It's about the cultural community, the big deal, the economic contact, the geographical proximity and the openness we have for each other. There is a wide range of Nordic cooperation. There may be too many working groups, but there is a great diversity in cooperation – and that is good. The more important it becomes to focus on the key challenges and to focus on them. I am also very pleased with the broad consensus across the parties, which has been expressed so far in this debate, on the importance of Nordic cooperation. I believe that Nordic cooperation has an important time right now, because the most recently notified EU countries have had a maturity in their EU status which means that they are opening up more to Nordic cooperation again, and not least because security and defence cooperation has entered the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers in a completely different way than before. What was previously unheard of has now become a natural part of the agenda. Our part of the world is also characterized by globalisation. The Christian People's Party does not see it as a threat, but rather as an opportunity to further develop our Nordic model of well-being, co-determination and democracy, and to focus on knowledge and culture. Nordic cooperation should be high in Norwegian policy. That perspective must be reflected both in our national priorities and in our foreign policy. We have had a debate in the Nordic Council over a few years about holding the Nordic region as a global winner region. Presenting the Nordic region as a brand, as an expression of a successful project, has been important to Nordic politicians. We have a standard of living, a education system, a health sector and a political stability that makes it good to live in the Nordic region – yes, in many ways we are a winner region. But we also have our clear challenges in relation to sustainable management of natural resources, focus on quality of life as opposed to material standards, competitive business, research efforts, integration of our new northers and climate change, to mention something. We need Nordic cooperation that does not necessarily sum up the Nordic as the winner, but that addresses the challenges of globalisation, analyses them, and creates a willingness to meet these challenges together. It is right to strengthen cooperation in research and innovation, higher education, the environment and energy, as well as to stimulate popular cooperation in non-governmental organisations and to remove unnecessary border barriers. The Nordic model can be developed further if we maintain our solidarity values, not only here at home, but also internationally. The fight against poverty and injustice, the promotion of human dignity and human rights, the provision of opportunities for individuals to work, education and health and the meeting of common challenges are a common Nordic agenda in international cooperation. These are values and an agenda rooted in our Christian and humanistic cultural heritage in the Nordic region. We need a solidarity Nordic if the Nordics are to be a global winner region. I actually get a little bad taste in my mouth by the term 'winner', if not the solidarity of the Nordic model is involved, even when we leave the Nordic region. Competition in the economic field is hard, but we only become a winner region when we use our material wealth and our intellectual capital to combat the world's poverty. In particular, we meet this challenge when we discuss the future of the Nordic Development Fund. There is a comment on this in the attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee to which I would like to draw attention. Governments have decided to cease this cooperation because they were unable to agree on the filling up of capital. The Christian People's Party, and the undersigned, is critical of the process of this closure. There should have been a better dialogue between governments and parliamentarians about this. Then we have a debate on how to use the money given that the fund has been adopted, and there are two alternatives: to follow the proposal of the Nordic Development Fund Board to give the funds to the World Bank or to make them available to the Nordic Investment Bank, NIB. For the Christian People's Party, it is obvious that the funds Norway has invested in this fund are development funds — ODA-approved funds, which must be used in accordance with the principles deriving from the ODA authorisation. But I would also like to ask the Nordic Minister of Cooperation to respond to the challenge of a joint committee to the Government, to explain why it has been committed to shutting down this development fund, which may be one of the few manifestations of Nordic cooperation on solidarity with the world's poor. The forthcoming session of the Nordic Council brings up many different proposals for consideration by parliamentarians, but it is right to say that some main themes are the most important: globalisation, climate and border barriers. Everyone is very relevant to Nordic cooperation. I've been into globalisation. The climate change and the forthcoming negotiations on a new international climate agreement are the second important theme that requires Nordic coordination, where I would say the Nordic countries, have added value to bring about international cooperation. We are well aware of climate change in our part of the world where police are melting, indigenous people are changing their living conditions, growing conditions are changing, new transport routes are opening up and the role of the sea is becoming even more important. It is my wish that the Nordics can speak with a radical voice in the international negotiations, that we can cooperate more closely on energy, energy market and more sustainable consumption solutions, and that we can drive climate adaptation together. A third theme is the removal of unnecessary border barriers between our Nordic countries. I would argue that Nordic cooperation always needs to prove its entitlement to Nordic citizens. We as parliamentarians need to be able to show results in Nordic cooperation that are useful to the individual people in the Nordic region. There are many opportunities to do so in the borderline area, but it is demanding. I've been working on this from a lot of sides. I've been Social Security Director and I've written explanations to the Department about why the rules should be just like they are. I've been a government councillor and I've listened to officials and women who have said the same thing: here at our place it must be like this, even if it's different there. The life of a Council of States is short. I've been reminded of that in the last few days. So you want to give priority to what you can get results from. And you like to follow such advice on border barriers, which governments often get. Therefore, a pusher and a force in this frontier barrier cooperation is needed that can challenge at political level, challenge the politically responsible state councils in different countries to do something about the pillage and embezzlement of unnecessary nature experienced by many citizens when they are going to live and work in two different Nordic countries, or operate in several different Nordic countries. Therefore, the proposal for a coordinator or an ombudsman has been raised. I am pleased to note that we now seem to have come to a good conclusion on this, in interaction between the Bureau and the Council of Ministers, which allows us to put such a solution in place. I remember very well once former Prime Minister Paul Schlüter came into my office in the Ministry of Health. After he had written a letter and pointed out some frontier obstacles, he personally trodden up and said, Councillor, what have you done with what I wrote you about? And then you get to answer in a different way than when there's a note from a government agency that says you don't have to do anything. I have had the pleasure and honour of being president of the Nordic Council for the past year, and I have been committed to raising the need for effective work on border barriers and getting more political attention in the Nordic region on the challenges in the northern regions, among others. as a consequence of the climate challenge. I believe that during the forthcoming session we can see that both of these areas receive attention – and in the case of border barriers, also a solution – which will provide concrete results in the long term, for the benefit of Nordic citizens. That is ultimately what we are running the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e380	When we meet at the Nordic Council this next week, the presentations of foreign ministers and defence ministers are at the heart of the agenda. Security policy and foreign policy issues have become a legitimate part of the debates in Nordic cooperation, and I also refer to the Committee's reference to the fact that, in the current situation, former security policy divisions between Norway, Finland and Sweden have changed to become a political space of new opportunities. The government has used this opportunity in an offensive way. There is reason to favour the Government, and there is also reason to believe that this has been followed up well from the Norwegian side in the cooperation under the direction of the Nordic Council. Norway has its security policy anchoring in NATO and its strongest security policy challenges related to the development of the north. It is gratifying that from this position, which is so fundamental to us, we find a community of interests and see new opportunities for cooperation with our neighbouring countries. So Nordic cooperation is in the middle of an interesting development. Exposure areas are expanding, but that does not mean that we have reason to detract from the traditional areas of cooperation. The unique thing about Nordic cooperation is the high focus it has on relationships that affect our citizens in their daily lives. The work on removing frontier barriers, as the representative Høybräten said, is a good example of this. I must be allowed to express some doubts as to whether the results are so far in relation to the ambitions of the Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers, following the dynamic process of former Prime Minister Poul Schlüter. Int. S. No 8 refers to the following: ‘On the parliamentary side, the question of whether there is a need for a separate ‘Ombudsman’s institution’ to pursue the work of removing unnecessary border barriers has been discussed.’ So far, the co-operation ministers have put in place so-called drive mechanisms to counter frontier barriers in two areas: the field of business and social and health. On the parliamentary side, there is a need to follow closely the continuation of the work on removing frontier barriers. We have a Nordic labour market where tens of thousands of people work in the neighbouring country. Not least we in Norway enjoy it in today's tight labour market here at home. Most of us living in the Nordic region experience that the working environment, skills requirements and languages are not a big obstacle to the use of our workforce in the neighbouring country. However, many — too many — experience different tax, sickness, pension rights and so on. practical obstacles are not easy for the authorities to deal with when it comes to the problem. The problem for workers is that the obstacles arise when unexpected and difficult situations arise. They often experience being stuck in traps that they did not know about or heightened when they entered the job. I am aware that the driver in the social and health field has sent in several issues that need to find his solution. One example is related to the independent right of fathers to papacy. In Norway, fathers are only entitled to their own cardboard leave through the child’s mother. When mother does not live or work in Norway, the Swedish, Danish or Finnish worker in Norway is not entitled to a paper commission. It doesn't help if he's a member of the population. In the Norwegian gender equality debate, we underline the importance of parents sharing responsibility during the period of maternity leave, but we therefore exclude our own workers if they have their citizenship, address of residence or family in one of the neighbouring countries. This does not seem very reliable in relation to the ambitions we set for the development of Norwegian welfare policy, and is one of the examples of cross-border barriers that I assume ministers go into and seek solutions. The issue has been documented and transmitted to the relevant State Council. Cultural and educational cooperation remains the backbone of Nordic cooperation. It is also in these areas that, through the Nordic Council, we have set the stage for participation. The Nordic prizes, the North Plus programmes, the Nordic houses, the research cooperation, support for cooperation in the voluntary sector, the art and cultural programmes and now the latest media programme with the development of video games for children and young people are all evidence that through our Nordic cooperation, we have reached far beyond contacts and actions at the level of government. It works directly into people's everyday lives, and therefore Nordic cooperation is also appreciated, perhaps often more appreciated by ordinary people than among us politicians. When new measures come into effect, we must not allow it to weaken the good foundation developed over time in neighbouring country cooperation in the field of culture and education. The Nordic region as a global winner region is an excellent innovation within the framework of the Nordic Council. I fully support the development of that cooperation. However, it must not be the will to bet on this, as one now does, among other things. through a strong prioritisation within the budgetary framework of the Council of Ministers, leading to a weakening of the potential of artists, non-governmental organisations, students and educational institutions to implement joint action. This will be challenging in finding solutions within the budgetary framework that the Council of Ministers has and within which we are to work. It is, as I said earlier, cooperation within culture and education that has created the foundation of Nordic cooperation, and we must not get into a situation where it is levelling, when we now also see the possibilities of developing cooperation in other areas where there is every reason to develop cooperation, but which must find its space as a supplement and not just as a substitute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e400	The post-war period has shown that common languages, common values and equal social models provide a good basis for cooperation. The Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers have thus, over the years, produced significant, albeit not always spectacular, results. Indeed, we have taken many of the results for granted, such as the possibility of travelling freely between Nordic countries without passports, a free labour market and the right to health protection and social protection for Norwegian citizens living in another Nordic country. Furthermore, the Nordic Council of Ministers may refer to fruitful cooperation in areas such as the environment, equality and integration, as well as culture, education, research and, in particular, the development of democracy in the Nordic region and in the neighbouring regions. In addition, work is being done on removing frontier barriers. I want to stress that cooperation is largely based on serving and involving a wide range of individuals, large and small enterprises and organisations. Specific problems related to everyday life have often been the focus of attention. In other words, Nordic cooperation has not been a project reserved for the few or an elite. This has given Nordic cooperation a good anchoring in the population, which I believe consistently connects something solid and secure with it. However, the perspective of Nordic cooperation goes further than that. In today's Europe, belonging to a region is becoming increasingly important. This is particularly important for Norway, which has chosen not to be a member of the EU. The importance of this is not diminished when we know that Nordic cooperation can help draw EU attention to the north. Here we are facing major challenges related to the management of large marine resources and global environmental problems. In addition, our geopolitical position is facing great resources in the North Sea, the North-East Atlantic and the Barents Sea, and not least our common border with Russia. In order to deal with this, we need friends, and we find them, among other things. Here in the North. I will now turn my attention to the surrounding regions of the Nordic countries. Cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries has moved into a new phase. It is now fully equivalent in form and content, with enhanced political dialogue and the loss of aid-related project funding. This is a happy development that testifies that the Nordic Council of Ministers has been involved in breaking down old dividing lines in Europe. At the same time, it is important to continue cooperation with Russia. Sustainable development, democracy and a regulated market economy should be central. In addition, the promotion of a free press, which unfortunately has become an increasingly topical issue in Russia. I also want to highlight the importance of following up the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers in relation to Belarus, in particular with a view to promoting human rights and democracy. Belarus is a dictatorship in the surrounding regions of the Nordic countries, where elementary civil rights are not respected. We should therefore keep Belarus in focus and do what we can to promote democratic development. So a few words about climate. The issue of climate change will receive a lot of attention at the Nordic Summit in the context of the annual session of the Nordic Council, which will take place here in Oslo from 30 October. What impact will climate change have on the Nordic countries? This issue will be at the heart of the debate. Given that climate change is particularly visible in Arctic areas, we should contribute to their focus. Another central theme will be how the Nordic countries can influence the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Summit in Copenhagen. It will be the most significant climate meeting since the Kyoto meeting in 1997. The aim is to have an international climate agreement that can replace the Kyoto Protocol. I believe that the Copenhagen climate meeting will provide a good opportunity for joint Nordic markers. We can, among other things: visualise Nordic values, research and development of environmental and energy technologies. A topic that concerns me strongly, and as several others have mentioned, is trafficking in human beings, including in particular prostitution and trafficking. Unfortunately, it has become a problem of increasing topicality in Norwegian and other Nordic cities. We don't have to go beyond any quarter from where we are now, to confirm it. I am therefore pleased that the Nordic Council of Ministers has addressed this problem. Some of the hindrances are that there have been major changes in the prostitution markets in the Nordic countries and internationally in recent years. Increased globalisation, large differences between rich and poor countries and the opening of borders against the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe are central. The result is inter alia: increased trafficking in human beings and more prostitution. This requires new social, legal and political measures. However, before they can be implemented, we need to resolve new issues. Should, for example: Prostitution criminalized? Whether this is not a political consensus in the Nordic region — either within each country or between countries. What about the demand side? Several Nordic countries are now trying to limit recruitment to prostitution by also looking at those who buy sex. Furthermore, we have seen that prostitution and trafficking in human beings are increasingly crossing borders, which calls for a significantly stronger international focus. The Nordic Council of Ministers' responses to these challenges include: the project ‘Prostitution in the Nordic region’. It aims to establish a common knowledge base that will increase the possibility of good Nordic cooperation. I look forward to studying the results of this collaboration. Finally, a few words about globalisation. ‘North as a global winner region’ – yes, it sounds great. The Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council, together with another contributor, have issued a report with such a title. It focuses on Nordic values and recommends common strategies based on common vision and action. The Nordic Ministers for Cooperation have followed up on concrete proposals. I think this is positive. However, like others, I have reacted a little bit to the angle of incidence. Is it true that globalisation gives winners and losers? If someone's going to win, does that have to happen at the expense of others? I imagine a win-win situation related to globalisation. At the same time, I see that some countries reap far greater benefits from globalisation than others. Not least, the Nordic countries are well positioned. Unfortunately, some countries seem to be standing as losers. I believe this gives us a responsibility to help poor countries reap benefits from globalisation. In addition, they should be protected against the worst negative consequences. In other words, we should not be blinded by what we ourselves can earn in the crowns and ears of globalisation, but be involved in taking on a global responsibility. We can afford that. I am thinking here primarily of helping to solve global environmental problems and poverty problems – and promoting human rights and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e432	I have to be allowed to comment, so do I. As an avid Fireman for many years, it is allowed to rejoice that the gold came home. But besides that, I don't think I should go so far into the discussion between the President and the representative Inge Wohnning, because in the Nordic Council we have now spent several years discussing self-governed areas, and I am afraid that there might be an application from Bergen for greater powers in relation to both Nordic and national work. So we get to enjoy stretching as far as to the gold, and then we get, I think, parking it there. To something far more serious: the polar bear disappears at the same rate as the ice in the Arctic Ocean, and in 50 years the polar bear strain may actually be reduced by more than 30 pst. The polar bear is an important symbol of what is happening in the climate, and this is illustrated by the front page of the year’s big news of Nordic cooperation, and that Nordic cooperation is increasingly addressing the issues related to climate. The Nordic Council's session in Oslo will also focus to a large extent on climate, energy and the environment, and Nordic cooperation as a whole is increasingly concerned with these issues. And once again, as several of the representatives have been involved, Nordic cooperation is in the midst of a political change – a dynamic change, as someone said – to meet current challenges, and that is good. The Nordic countries must be involved in meeting the global challenges where it brings benefits to the Nordic countries, but also where we can best participate. In the wake of the debate on globalisation at the Nordic Council session last year, the Nordic Council of Ministers has decided to give priority to climate, energy and environment, knowledge and innovation, border barriers and profiling. Concrete cooperation and related projects are under development. We are going to be impatient, but at the same time I have a need to admit that good work takes some time. We are not going to waste money after hasty measures, but we are going to spend time getting the right and concrete measures that we are going to give priority to. And we're going to make sure to anchor the activities where the insight and the competence are to be found and where the activities are to be carried out. This will primarily be the Nordic Council of Ministers with their institutions and the other Nordic and national hinters. It will be a major challenge for the Nordic system to work more cross-sectorally both within the countries and between the Councils of Ministers than we have now, but I think it is absolutely necessary to have some overarching work that we are going to work towards. Funding for the financial year 2008 is secured through a disposal of 60 million. Danish Krone. We have started the discussion on funding in the coming years, and of course we must have it in close dialogue with the Nordic Council Budget Group, but also with the specialist ministers. As an example of current concrete areas of cooperation, I can mention global climate negotiations, new energy solutions, coordination and programming of national research efforts – including in climate, energy and environment – and a strengthening of the Nordic innovation environment. The Nordic Prime Ministers launched a series of different actions at their meeting in June, and the status of work at the Prime Minister’s meeting will be reported during the next week’s session. It is positive that the prime ministers are directly involved in the work, it shows the weight of the Nordic governments putting on this activity. The Prime Ministers shall also participate in the Nordic Globalisation Forum to be organised by the Swedish Presidency in April next year. The Forum shall be an advisory platform where policy, business, research and organisations shall meet annually to discuss ideas and strengthen the anchoring of Nordic globalisation. The 2008 Forum theme is still discussed, but is related to climate, energy and the environment. I also see that posts by parliamentarians in the next week of the session will be important in relation to what the summit is about, so it is important that a person has good posts that address it. In this process of creating Nordic benefits and anchoring the work on globalisation, it is important, as I said, that the Nordic Council is active and is continuously involved. I hope that the Council and the Council of Ministers can see this as a joint responsibility where we can join forces to create the political dynamics that we need to achieve concrete results, so that it does not just become words and flakes and new projects that have no use here or there. Another area of activity that is now being continued, including as part of globalisation, is the reduction of border barriers. As this debate shows, and as all the debates I am in Nordic cooperation show, the interest and commitment to building border barriers is also great among parliamentarians. The Nordic Prime Ministers decided in June of this year that each year at their meeting in connection with the session, they will be provided with an allocation for remaining border barriers and measures to remove them. In the course of this year’s distribution, drivers in the social and health fields and the business area, established under our presidency last year, have made a central contribution to the Finnish leadership who has been in charge. On a proposal from the Nordic Council on the establishment of a coordinator for the cross-border work, a proposal for a new structure for the cross-border work has now been drawn up. This is going to be the next week, but I'll still be able to say something about what's going on. In view of the need to focus heavily on the issues and not least on better coordination of the many good forces dealing with cross-border barriers, a Nordic Border Obstacle Forum shall be established. The Forum shall include a national representative from each of the countries and shall be chaired by a co-ordinator who shall also report to the countries. The Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers shall participate in the Forum. I think that is important precisely to make sure that both the secretariat is working on the forum, and not least for us to put in place the coordination that may have been missing something in the past. National representatives will have central tasks in relation to border barriers in their respective countries. As the Border Barrier Forum takes shape, the tasks of the two sector drivers will be included in the forum, and the arrangements we created last year will be terminated. But we have to make sure that several of the proposals that the representatives in the Chamber have also made can go through – and not be put in a new drawer, waiting for new ones to come forward. It's important. As I was at the beginning, another central role in Nordic cooperation in the last year was to strengthen the participation of the self-governed areas. Although Norway is not directly involved in the same way as Denmark and Finland, this has been an important issue for Nordic cooperation as well as for Norway. Our starting point is that it is important for those who want to participate in good Nordic cooperation to have access to it in a constructive way. A separate working group has been set up to look at the participation of self-governed areas in Nordic institutions, cooperation bodies and programmes. The configuration of the working group was endorsed at the Minister of Cooperation meeting at Åland on 5 September. The document has been named the Åland Document, and it will now be up-to-date and will take shape in the day-to-day cooperation. Among the conclusions of the Åland document, I would like to emphasise that Denmark and Finland can now give representatives of the Faeroe Islands, Greenland and Åland responsibility for hiring ministerial meetings, offices and working groups. This makes the self-regulated areas much more visible and makes it easier for them to express Nordic cooperation. Compared to the Nordic Council, the Helsinki Agreement is to be understood in such a way as to give the self-governed areas the right – within the competences transferred from the countries – to be addressees and to answer questions, recommendations and other representations from the Council. The self-governed areas can thus also be more active and visible in the government-parliamentary dialogue. I had great pleasure in my cooperation with the Council on budgetary work when we had the Presidency last year. I have given it to the forthcoming Presidencies that it is important to have good and close dialogue and regular meetings throughout the year with the Nordic Council Budget Group. Not least, it is important that the Council is active early in the process, when one takes over the political discussions, so that one in a way does not come in too late – after one has discussed the major political overarching issues – and only sits and files on concrete projects. It is important that one also has the major political overarching discussions – to ensure that we have a common stand when it comes to the challenges we face. I see well that the forthcoming budgets can be more demanding than those we have had now, precisely because we need to find a greater room for funding globalisation work within the ordinary budget than we need to do in 2008. It will be demanding and will ultimately depend on good cooperation and dialogue between the Council and the Council of Ministers. So there's something at least I want to fix. And I have good faith that Sweden, which is going to take over the presidency next year, has the same view. It will be exciting to follow the implementation of budgetary reforms to create tighter governance and more policies, which were part of the group we had seen down, which would modernise the entire budgetary process in the Nordic Council – which is also important in order to ensure transparency and involvement in budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e470	The attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the report of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council show that Nordic cooperation is more dynamic and more important than ever. It is not just the internal Nordic that is important, but more and more the cooperation that the Nordic countries have with their neighbouring countries – Russia, the Baltic States, the Baltic States and the EU, to name a few. The fall of the Berlin Wall has made this possible. Then to the close things. The Nordic Council budget of nearly 900 million. The Danish krona will be adopted next week. It is important for me, as head of the Budget Group, to stress to the Minister for Cooperation that all party groups in the Nordic Council believe that the trade ministers must take a significantly greater responsibility for shaping and prioritising their budgetary areas, in close cooperation with the parliamentarians of the Nordic Council of Experts. That's so to say absent today. Such a form of work would never be accepted in the Stortinget, the Folketing, the Riksdag or Everything. The Prime Ministers have ordered that there be money, at least 60 million. kr, to finance various globalisation measures. It is good that the Prime Ministers are ordering more Nordic cooperation. For the next year, globalisation measures are funded by spending 35 million. SEK of the liquidity of the Nordic Council. The remainder is collected from different budget lines. At the same time as this operation, the Nordic Council of Ministers is sending out approx. Thirty-five million. kr of liquidity back to countries. This means that Norway, which already has a pretty well-filled state fund, is getting back between 5 and 7 million. kr. Then the money just becomes a curious thing. We don't need money back. We would rather need the money to solve more problems in Nordic cooperation, among others. tasks of the EEAS and of all Nordic Councils, namely combating trafficking and prostitution. More measures and more money are needed here. What should have been done was to maintain the liquidity that countries now receive further into the budget in 2009 in order to co-finance the various constraints and initiatives that the Prime Ministers will bring with them. It will be a demanding exercise to redeploy the budget for 2009 — that work has already begun — when there will also be room for the joint Nordic initiative relating to the major climate summit to be held in Copenhagen in 2009. For example, we need to find money for our own Nordic educational project. I believe that we should have a Nordic educational project where schoolchildren and young people at different levels can follow the climate conference in a virtual way and gain insight into the climate problems and their impact in different parts of the world, and that we are therefore also launching a separate educational initiative for school students on climate problems. We should have started with this already in 2008. The most recent thing is to find money for this in 2009. Border barriers are another area where the parliamentary side has great impatience. We will see results. Some important steps have been taken by employing drivers, as they are called, and that is good, although parliamentarians would prefer to have a full-time Ombudsman, with reporting obligations directly to parliamentarians. Drivers are in the process of making even more border barriers visible than what has already been identified. They are constantly monitoring new developments, and they have found that both business and everyone are experiencing obstacles to the border on a daily basis. That is why good practices must be put in place, at least better than today, in order to ensure that what is being mapped out by the perpetrators is presented to the parliamentary side – by which I mean the parliaments – and the trade ministers throughout the Nordic region, and there must be political will in the governments to resolve them. Only then will we succeed in breaking down frontier barriers. I honestly believe that we already know enough to get started. What's missing is that there's more to be done. I also believe that if we do not do this task, it challenges the legitimacy of the entire Nordic Council. The Nordic Council is vitalised and a number of major policy areas have been raised. I'll just mention some areas to be discussed next week. We would like, among other things: provide a report from the Council of Ministers on the cooperation in the field of alcohol policy in the Nordic region. We will be given a statement on consumer policy cooperation in the Nordic region and a statement on the gender equality situation in the Nordic region. There will be a presentation of the establishment of a Nordic genetic resource centre. There will also be a statement on how to strengthen the participation of self-governing areas in Nordic cooperation. It will be a follow-up initiative on globalisation. In particular, there will be an important presentation of EU maritime policy and the Nordic region. And of course, there'll be a statement about the cross-border work. A number of important issues have also been raised from the point of view of parliamentarians and will be discussed. Apart from frontier barriers, which are soon left in all cases, there is also discussion of an integrated approach to the management of the Baltic Sea. There will also be a discussion on a common Nordic initiative for the implementation of the EU directive on the energy use of the public sector. It will be a debate on the psychiatry in the Nordic region. And a number of other important things will be raised. Finally, in addition to the work on common Nordic issues, the Nordic Council has an important task as a bridge builder. The Nordic Council participates in a number of contexts. It is enough to mention the Western Norse Council, the Baltic Sea Conference, the Baltic Assembly and the Arctic Parliamentary Committee, and we have established important contacts in countries such as Russia, the Baltic States and other countries that are striving to become real democracies. A week ago, for the first time, the Nordic Council organised a meeting with representatives of the Belarusian opposition and a representative of the Lukashenko regime to contribute to dialogue across regimes. International cooperation requires patience. Building trust is necessary, but not done in a hand turnaround. A key prerequisite for the implementation of Nordic cooperation is that the ministers responsible assume their responsibilities and follow up on their areas. This means that the members of the government must take time to report back to us at the Nordic Council on how they follow up the resolutions and decisions taken in the various forums in which we are present. In the end, the representative, Karin S. Woldseth, took up two important areas in his post. One was all the working groups set up by the Nordic Council of Ministers. The largest amount is actually there. It is just a handful that has been set up by the parliamentarian side, the Nordic Council. What is important about these working groups is: What do we learn from them? Where do we get the information they're coming up with? What success criteria are used by the Council of Ministers when they are set up? What are they going to deliver? It's still pretty unclear to many of us. The second question raised by the representative Karin S. Woldseth is why one allows to have special rules for individual parties that are part of the Nordic Council. To that I will say, and I will give a signal from my point of view: I believe it is time for reforms, time to address this question that the representative Woldseth is travelling. Right, we have to deal with the rules that we have, as they are per. Today, but I think the rules can be changed. We have to start work on it immediately, so that when we choose positions for 2009, this is cleared away, and everyone who participates in the Nordic Council is defined as party groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e510	St.meld. No 41 for 2006-2007, on Nordic cooperation, also refers to the regional cooperation bodies in which the Nordic countries participate outside the Nordic region, including the Arctic. Friday last week I was in Ottawa at a meeting of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee. At the meeting, the Committee was presented to the new Arctic Plan of the Canadian Government. The plan represents a major investment in the Canadian North, with a strong focus on strengthening military presence – with the construction of new bases, new marine vessels and deep-water ports. Furthermore, a research centre will be built where the focus will be research in the northern regions and the Arctic. A key element of the Canadian plan is the strengthening of Canadian interests in the northern regions. Compared to the previous plan, the importance of international cooperation is strongly downgraded. Now the national interests are being highlighted. I believe this reflects recent developments where much of the international agenda and the debate is about safeguarding national interests. Monitoring the continental shelf and focusing on the rich resources found in the Arctic are a natural focus for the Arctic countries. But that's not enough. I take this up to point out that we must not forget that it is only possible to find solutions for the good future management of the Arctic through international cooperation. Dialogue and interaction must have a major place in Arctic cooperation, and Nordic countries must be the drivers of this. The Arctic is changing now. Villages need to be moved because the land is being washed away under the houses. Infrastructure becomes useless as the tundra melts. Cruise ships with Mediterranean-educated captains navigate between icebergs, and several thousand passengers land in cities with a few hundred inhabitants. And the Northwest Passage was, as we know, for the first time in very long ice-free in September this year. Everyone understands that what's happening is a consequence of global warming. The dramatic thing for the Arctic is that the temperature increase here is more than twice as strong as the global average. That is why the consequences are already visible. The climate challenge must meet with two main strategies. One is measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The second is adaptations to the changes that are already taking place as a result of climate change. It's urgent to find solutions that can give us an Arctic with sustainable societies and sustainable nature. The Norwegian government’s Northern Region Initiative has a strong focus on dialogue and cooperation. It's necessary. We need binding agreements that regulate the activity of an increasingly open polar ocean, where both energy resources and new sea routes are made more accessible. This calls for international solutions and not new polar races. These are issues that also reflect the work of the Arctic Cooperation Committee. We are now preparing for the next Parliamentary Conference to take place in Alaska in August 2008. Here adaptations to climate change and the use of alternative renewable energy sources will be key themes. We also look forward with excitement to results from the fourth international polar year, which is going on this year and next year. Research efforts in this regard are formidable. It is also essential for the first time in a polar year to be researched how people living in the area, that is. in the Arctic, living. Science is necessary to understand what is happening, and why, but we also need to develop social knowledge, knowledge of how the people and communities affected by climate change are affected. We have a great responsibility in Norway and the Nordic countries to translate the findings of this research into good policies for the northern regions. As parliamentarians in the Nordic region, we must take responsibility for political responses to the insight that science and research have given us about how the Arctic is now changing as a result of global warming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e529	The committee setting and the report clearly show that we have extensive and successful Nordic cooperation. I also think that the debate has shown that this cooperation perhaps shows most of all that Norway is the country that makes the most sense that we are getting attention on the main issues that have attracted more people into this debate. One thing is to focus attention on the issues that affect the lack of cross-border cooperation, and that we get rid of border barriers, but most of all it is important to focus more on the situation that we experience as we advance the areas that we have in our own backyard, not least in relation to Norway being outside of direct European cooperation. It is clear that we have a strong need to get drag help to get more attention on the environmental challenges, the climate challenges, in our own area. That is why this committee setting and this report also show that we have succeeded in getting a greater focus on the Arctic areas and, I would say, a greater focus on increased Baltic Sea cooperation. Only a few comments on the need to participate in the Baltic Sea cooperation to an even greater extent. I have had the pleasure of following a sample that has worked with the Baltic Sea as such as an area which unfortunately appears to be the most polluted sea area in the world – which we have in our frontier waters, and which has become the world's most polluted sea area because of the lack of coordination, that there is no political measure to enable the countries bordering the Baltic Sea to interact adequately, which has resulted in the Baltic Sea becoming in many ways a common sink for various activities, which has made those living in the near Baltic Sea areas those who suffer from this. When I draw this up, it's because of the work, which has been published in a report, which has been led by Asmund Kristoffersen in an excellent way, which I ask the Council of State through the Council of Ministers to ensure that they are followed up in the further work. Then there are a number of people who have drawn up the concept of 'North as a winning region'. That's good, and that's very fair. But I am also a member of the Nordic Council's disability policy selection. In fact, the concept of the region is scouring – it is scuring very strongly. We see that only in Norway do we have 450,000 people of pre-employment age who have a disability or a starting point that makes them unable to participate in everyday life as the so-called healthy people do. The fact that we in the Nordic region have between three and four million people of pre-employment age who in many ways are totally or partially excluded is a situation in which we cannot say that the welfare model that we like to present outside the Nordic region is particularly applicable to this group. In the Nordic region, we often measure the success factor depending on how much employment we can achieve at all times. It's quite obvious that in this area, the Nordic region is the best in the world. We see that in Norway, as in most Nordic countries, the employment factor is increasing, while for disabled people there is a falling trend. We have an employment rate in Norway of more than 70 pst, and it's increasing. Among the disabled, it's down to 45 pst, and it's falling. When the representative Inge Wohnning said that we have too little disagreement in some areas, I actually feel that he hits the blink quite well when it comes to this extravagance that disabled people are part of in the Nordic region. We have a deafening consensus in the political follow-up on disabled people in Norway. But anyway, we're experiencing stagnation. My contribution here is to ask the Council of State that in this area too, the Nordic Council of Ministers must be more able to put these very important issues on the agenda. Finally, there has been a lot of talk about Bergen and Firen in this debate. I think I have to clear up a very obvious misunderstanding. Fire has not become the Norwegian champion, as it seems to reign an opinion of. Yesterday they became the best serial masters in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e546	There was then an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e549	There's going to be more fire. For those of us who have never experienced that Brann has won serial gold, like me and everyone else born after 1963, the serial gold actually goes even higher than the cup final and raising the royal cup. So these are good things. So yesterday, Brann won the serial gold. I would like to be at the Fire Stadium and sing "The gold is going home, the gold is going home, the gold is going back to Bergen, the gold is going home." But I wasn't. I hope I had been present. I was in Ålesund and tried to calm the victor ashore there, but couldn't. So it's been 44 years since Brand won the gold. I hope it won't be the same for the next time. Normally, yesterday was also going to qualify Firen to the Royal League, but it didn't, because on Saturday, the Norwegian Football Association went out and said we won't join the Royal League, because the agreements that are there are not good enough. I would like to say that many of the representatives here are also representatives of the Nordic Council. If there is one thing that characterises the Nordic Council, it is that there is broad cooperation. Many representatives from many political parties meet in the Nordic Council. I'm very happy about that, it's a good cooperation. But there is no good Nordic publicity. In my opinion, the Nordic public got a real boost when we introduced the Royal League, because then for the first time they got sports supplements in the Norwegian newspapers that not only wrote about the Spanish-speaking, English-typical – Premier League – or Italian leagues, but also wrote about the Nordic leagues. Suddenly, young boys and girls who grew up here in the country not only knew the names of the top players in the English, Spanish or Italian leagues, but also began to know the top players in the other Nordic leagues. This should not be underestimated, because forming a Nordic public is, in fact, absolutely crucial to getting the sense of collective identity that everyone who participates in the Nordic Council and everyone who has the Nordic as an important item on the agenda is working for. I think everyone who grew up a generation before me remembers these Swedish struggles – the fight against the Swedes. It's nodding on the press leg here. The Swedish fights all remember, because there was something that gathered the entire Norwegian people. It was this Nordic identity and this war – not the war, but the comradely cape battle – that lay there. The Swedish struggles were important. In the same way, I had hoped that we would be able to make the Royal League something that was important to the Norwegian people, because then we had managed to build a Nordic identity and a Nordic public. We have Swedish TV, but not many of us have Danish TV, which would be an important contribution to building a Nordic public. That's why I think the Royal League is essential. There's not much about culture and sport in the setting. It's a small section on culture, but sport isn't exactly a central theme in the setting we're dealing with now on Nordic cooperation. Therefore, I would like to encourage all the representatives who attend meetings of the Nordic Council in the future, those who travel as delegates, and I would also encourage the Minister – who is also a part of Firen-Hungary – to do a better job to ensure that what has the germ in it to create a Nordic public – namely the Nordic Football Conference, is an important item on the agenda of the future meetings of the Nordic Council. So it's 44 years since Brann won the serial gold last time. I hope I'll be able to experience it at least once more in my life, even if nothing is safe in this world. I hope that, with contributions from Norwegian politicians, we make sure that the next time Brann wins the series, we get to compete and try to be the best in the Nordic region as we're going to go out and try to be the best in Europe. Then we can make sure to bring back the Nordic perspective in our sports games in the comrade's cape.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e566	The President is a little uncertain about what this debate really is about, but he reads that it is the attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee on Nordic cooperation. The question is whether the debate should have been conducted in the Football Federation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e569	I was a moment in doubt if I had to withdraw from the list of speakers, when the theme was as changed as it seemed to be. But now we're back. This debate has shown that Nordic cooperation is both important and desirable. If we are to reap the fruits of cooperation in the Nordic region, we must help to ensure that this cooperation is on the agenda, as it is now, and that it is given political status. The work that is given priority in the committees must be followed up by the Nordic Council of Ministers. Fortunately, it is the case in several areas, including health and social policy, that I am concerned about. We often think it's a little late, and we're impatient, as the minister was inside his post. But she has just said that to achieve good results in a number of areas, it often takes time. St.meld. No 41 for 2006-2007, on Nordic cooperation, has fortunately highlighted situations for people with disabilities, with a focus on children and young people, and there is a strong focus on children and young people in the Nordic region. We're very concerned about that. Fortunately, we can also raise our eyes a little and worry about and address challenges outside the Nordic countries. In the work of the welfare committee, we have been very concerned about the health situation in the northern regions, and in particular with our neighbours in Russia. I would particularly like to mention Murmansk, who has been on the agenda of the welfare committee for a long time. I am very pleased that it has been taken seriously, also in St.meld. No 41. I feel quite confident that the Minister will follow this matter in particular and take responsibility for doing a good job for our neighbours. The work of the welfare committee and of the health and care committee makes very visible the challenges we face and that they are similar in the Nordic countries. We have been in the welfare committee for several years working with psychiatry in the Nordic region, as an example. We have been particularly concerned with the waiting lists for children and young people in psychiatry. What we can say is that children and young people with mental illness in Denmark are the same as children and young people with mental illness in Norway. Young people with eating disorders in Finland are equally demanding to be treated as young people with eating disorders in Norway. And not all Nordic countries are equally good at everything. We know that medical and technological developments in health are moving very fast. Sometimes we think it's going late in some areas, because we'd like to treat everyone for their illnesses and disorders. In any case, we are always challenged to give patients the best treatment. It's quite demanding for a small country to have top expertise on everything. It's not safe for us to have it either, so it's quite a lot to pick up, we think, in Nordic cooperation, which can provide great opportunities to exchange both services and health care across Nordic borders. We often have examples in the media that patients travel to Denmark and Sweden for treatment, for example. in some cancers where it is stated that in Norway we cannot give the same treatment. So is Norway having its good things to offer Nordic cooperation. I want to mention e.g. telemedicine. We know that the environments in Tromsø are very advanced in telemedicine, perhaps among the best in the world. Then it is important that there can also be a theme in Nordic cooperation. I also encourage the Minister here to take part in that debate. The Socialist Group has also raised it in its group meetings and wants it to become a topic of the Nordic Council. Now it is known that we are planning the themes for 2008 in the various committees. We will see very quickly that these are quite serious issues that are going on the agenda, which are similar in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Norway. I just want to mention briefly violence against the elderly. We are very concerned about the drinking pattern among young people in the Nordic region. We are very concerned about children and young people like this. experience serious care failure and its long-term consequences. We see that it's the same challenges in Norway as it is in the other Nordic countries, and I think we have very good benefits from that cooperation. I want the Minister to both follow up and follow up on the matters that we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e586	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Dagfinn Høybrätten and Berit Brørby, the president and vice-president of the Nordic Council, respectively, for the excellent presidency of the year that has passed. They have contributed greatly to the vitalisation of Nordic cooperation. The representative Inge Wohnning has also made a powerful contribution to extended and targeted Nordic cooperation. He was himself in some of the main areas to which he has contributed greatly, even though he did not mention himself. But I think there's reason to mention it from this pulpit, because this has shaped Nordic cooperation, among other things. the last year. Many speakers have spoken before me today and have spoken about the great features of Nordic cooperation. So I'm not going to spend so much time on the general and general aspects of Nordic cooperation. However, I would like to start by saying that those who do not think we should spend so much time and energy on Nordic cooperation, and who believe that it is wasted, totally misjudge the value of this cooperation. Of course, five independent countries and three autonomous areas cooperate closely. Yes, we're talking here about a cooperation between nations that one doesn't find the spouse of anywhere in the world. The value of this cooperation is shown, among other things. by the fact that all these countries appear to be welfare nations, where the population of all nations has been involved in a wealth development. It may appear to be an example for many other nations. There is good dynamism in Nordic cooperation. Cooperation ministers and prime ministers are active in this work. It is a new force in Nordic cooperation with North-West Russia. There is exciting ongoing work in the field of defence policy and security policy between the Nordic countries, as specifically represented by Marit Nybakk. We're talking about what we're doing in Nordic cooperation, we're going to be of Nordic use, and the examples that we're referring to here are really useful to the Nordics. In the Environment and Natural Resources Committee, for which I am currently the leader, we have had frequent and systematic contact with neighbouring countries to the Nordic region for good reasons. I would like to draw attention here to nuclear waste and nuclear safety related to energy production. Visiting Andreyeva Bay at Kola, a huge storage space for spent and very dangerous nuclear fuel, was important to see for yourself what needs to be done, and not least to see how Norwegian money is very well spent there. The world has not yet solved the problem of handling and safe storage of spent nuclear fuel. Nevertheless, it is satisfactory to see that both Sweden and Finland, which use nuclear power, are researching the way in which they can handle their own waste. Hopefully they'll succeed, and maybe they can be models for the rest of the world. The Nordic Council has given this great attention, since it concerns itself and future generations for thousands of years. Therefore, our attention is focused on unsatisfactory conditions at the recovery facility in Sellafield in England and the reduction of the Ignalina power plant in Lithuania. Yes, we have, over several years, had a close and formalized cooperation on concrete matters with the Baltic States, especially through their joint body, the Baltic Assembly. We are developing this cooperation, including: as regards marine environmental issues in the Baltic Sea, energy efficiency and safety. We are also following up our common interest in EU policy on an integrated maritime policy. We also want to systematize our cooperation with British-Irish Inter-Parliamentary Body on, among other things. the areas of radioactive waste and energy policy. This body is a kind of Nordic Council 'light' version of the British Isles and Ireland. Nordic energy cooperation is very important. We have a very well-functioning market, but transmission system bottlenecks, better integration, better energy efficiency and cooperation on new renewable energy continue to call for considerable efforts in Nordic cooperation. It's sad that we haven't come any further in the transition to the hydrogen society. My proposal to set up a Nordic hydrogen fund a few years ago was torpedoed by the Nordic Council of Ministers on the grounds that the Nordic countries would follow the EU pace. That was stupid! We could have come further if the will had been there. The Nordic Council can become very important for the Nordic countries’ joint fight against man-made climate change. Through this cooperation, we definitely inspire each other. I also believe it is important that the Nordic countries in this area act more than so far towards one voice in international forums. Our initiative in the Nordic Council on a common and visible Nordic approach at the World Environment Summit in Copenhagen in 2009 is important. I assume that the governments have noticed this and are acting afterwards. Norway is heavily involved in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Here, all Nordic countries need to stand together to ensure that both EU countries and Russia implement a civilised policy. So far it has been defective. In order to acknowledge the pleasant visit of the representative Ivar Kristiansen to me in connection with the Baltic Sea cooperation, I would like to give him strong credit for having addressed this problem of fish-juke in all the assemblies where it has been natural to meet internationally, so that it has often been on the case map. It's important, because safe management of natural resources has to do with our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e607	I think of Nordic cooperation as very important, not only for the Nordic countries, but also for the world around it. The Nordic model of cooperation must be a good example for other countries of how neighbouring countries can cooperate in a peaceful and developing way. I respect large international cooperation bodies and organisations, and the cooperation projects they represent, but I do not believe the need for strongly formalised Nordic cooperation is of any minor importance because these exist – rather the opposite. The goal of Nordic cooperation is to increase the community between the Nordic countries and us living in these countries, through a strong popular anchoring. I am pleased, but not surprised, that polls show that Nordic cooperation is very strong among the inhabitants of the Nordic countries, and that there is a sense of further strengthening this cooperation. I think that those who believe that Nordic cooperation has played its part and is superfluous should notice. I would also like to stress the importance of young people becoming so visible in Nordic cooperation through the Nordic Council of Youth. These great young people are doing a lot of Nordic cooperation today, and this tells us that cooperation can be even more extensive in the coming years. I would also like to mention on this occasion the important work done by the Nordic Association to promote Nordic cooperation and the community. Not least, it is gratifying to see that they also work hard to take care of the Scandinavian community. I hope that this voluntary Nordic cooperation will continue with unimpaired strength and that they will have the framework conditions for continued positive development. Nordic cooperation with our neighbouring countries is also very important and in positive development. I myself have been given the opportunity to work with indigenous questions in the People's and Consumers' Committee of the Nordic Council. Here I have been working to find out what we can do from the Nordic side to support indigenous people in the Barents region. I've been given the opportunity to travel around in these areas to talk to people and see how they live. We know that the welfare gap between people living in these areas is enormous, but I'm not sure that so many know what the situation is for indigenous people in particular. It'll lead too far to go into this right here, but if this were something I could have talked a lot. In this context, the Nordic Committee of Citizens and Consumers has highlighted the need for short-term and long-term assistance to indigenous peoples of North-West Russia, in particular as regards health and business development. I have registered with pleasure and respect that the Council of Ministers has received these and other input in a very constructive way, and that concrete action has been taken in several important areas. In particular, I would like to mention the efforts to promote democracy development, language and culture. These are examples of Nordic cooperation being important for the world as well, and something really happens from the Nordic cooperation point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e630	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e633	This year's debate on Nordic cooperation has been unusually tense, at times it may have reminded you of a sports event, and it is rare that major debates take place. I felt impelled to perhaps remind my associate Heikki Holmås that we have one thing in common politically, namely that we both represent Oslo in this assembly. On the constitutional aspects of the case, the Minister of Cooperation expressed some concern about the risk of ambitions for a self-governing area in Norway. The state councils can take it easy. At my discretion, the level of ambition is significantly higher than controlling itself. It's about making this city, whose name I'm not going to mention, a global winner region. But then to that theme I felt yearned to finally link a little comment to. The Minister of Cooperation was at the heart of the new forum set up to address the cross-border problem, and until then I would say that I think it is a very good solution. If you call things one or the other – the Ombudsman, the forum or the terminology you choose – you really don't care, only the matter will be dealt with effectively. What I have been opposed to the wish to use the concept of the Ombudsman in this context is that it will easily cover the fact that, after all, Nordic cooperation is intergovernmental cooperation. This means that the usual content of the word ‘ ombudsman’, which is established both in Norway and in other countries — this is one of the few words in which the Norwegian language has enriched other languages — will not really fit a function to take place in the context of intergovernmental cooperation. But what is vital is that this forum should be given the necessary political weight and that it should also be given the necessary priority by the Council of Ministers so that it can really perform the function. What several speakers have pointed out, and I think it is quite right, is that the weight of the national bureaucracies in this area is so great that it needs to have a significant political will, and it needs to be a significant political force to succeed in building up unnecessary border barriers. I agree with the representative of Brørby that perhaps the most important test of the effectiveness of Nordic cooperation, from the point of view of the citizens, is whether we succeed in solving this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e647	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fooding, see page 256]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e663	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President would point out that the case rapporteur for this case, Heidi Sørensen, has resigned from the Stortinget, and the first posts are therefore held by Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e674	Let me start by saying that I appreciate this proposal from the Left, among other things. by Mr Kvassheim, and that we get this up on the political agenda through this channel. We agree with the proposers that it is both important and right that we now get a commitment to wind turbines at sea. According to the IEA, energy demand increases by 50 pst. by 2030, and we also have major challenges in terms of climate change emissions. Norway has extensive offshore knowledge, knowledge that is mainly used in the maritime industry, but not least in the oil and gas industry. This knowledge must and should be further developed in the case of wind turbines and offshore energy production. Today, we can look like we have a huge potential for future renewable energy production. This energy can be used as an important contributor to the electrification of the cap. And not least, in the future, windmills at sea can produce electricity in large quantities to the mainland as well, if we do it the right way. But, as I said, it's challenges. These wind turbines are not per. Today's shelf goods, which one can get the impression through the debates. These mills do not yet exist. Therefore, we must be willing, together with private actors, to spend a good deal of money in the future on research and development of marine wind turbines. The government has agreed to this. Norway has a great deal of offshore knowledge, as I have been in the past. That is why I am also fully convinced that we should be able to get future technology for wind turbines at sea. We're going to do this, also for the environment. Then questions will be asked as to why the government parties do not support the submission in the setting. The answer here is two-part. We believe that the proposals from the Left are well taken care of in already adopted strategies, see. the climate plan. We don't need double plans and bureaucrats. We need more renewable energy – that's what we need. The second point is that the government has decided to spend twice as much money as the previous government spent on its most on just renewable energy next year. We have major ambitious targets in the field of renewable energy investment, namely 30 TWh by 2016. We have support arrangements in place within wind, water and heat. I feel convinced that through Enova we will support research, development and demonstration of wind turbines at sea. The aim must be to be able to commercialise this new technology in the future. Let me finally express my joy at that Storting through, among other things. this debate shows such a commitment to renewable energy investment. This is not only important for the development and production of future environmentally friendly energy, but it is also very gratifying for the great climate effort of the Workers' Party and the Government. I interpret today's debate so that the opposition also supports the government's great commitment to renewable energy. I would like to mention that next year the Government, as presented in the draft budget, wants to use 76,8 pst. more on renewable energy than before. It is good for both the climate and the environment that the government now seems to gather broad support for this initiative. It looks very good, I must say, for Storting's further work on the Government's climate communication, which is now in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e697	The development of wind power generation based on offshore offshore offshore offshore offshore mills is interesting for the future, as the Progress Party sees it. Especially here in Norway, where we have very large wind power resources both along the coast and not least on our large seas, offshore wind power generation is so absolutely worth looking at a number of things in the future. Because we know that in the future we will need, in part, significantly increased energy production also in Norway, although the very large growth in global energy consumption will occur in completely different countries in this world. In view of the uncertain climate change, we will need forms of energy that do not contribute to increased greenhouse gas emissions, such as: CO2. Here, wind power generation represents the nearest perfect solution. It combines power generation with non-greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, wind turbines located in the sea will significantly eliminate the unfortunate visual effects that some of today’s wind farms on land often prove to have. When we then know that there is a lot of energy in wind that we can use for energy purposes, it should only be a matter of time before we get far better at exploiting the very large wind power potential of Norway has both offshore and onshore. Better use of wind power potential must be achieved on a significantly larger scale than hitherto in Norway over the next 10 to 20 years. In fact, Norway is today a slowdown in wind power. It is estimated that an offshore offshore offshore offshore wind farm located in an area of only about 100 km 2 could have an installed capacity of around 1000 MW. With good and stable wind conditions offshore, this park can therefore – if it produces too fully for half of the year – have an annual production of formidable 4.5 TWh. It's an electrical energy supply that equals something like seven-eight Alta power plants. It's impressive. Offshore wind resources therefore represent an energy potential that we must strive to make better use of in the near future. However, offshore offshore offshore mills, especially liquid ones, still require a not insignificant development of technology. Experience so far shows that the few offshore windmills that exist do not withstand the enormous stresses of weather and wind at sea. So the desire to put a large number of wind farms out of land in the sea is not at all unproblematic with today's technology, but with new and improved technology, we can create a new generation of wind turbines that can probably withstand the natural forces offshore much better than with today's technology. We see that energy companies like Statkraft, Luminous Energy and Hydro now want to bet on exploiting the wind power at sea. It is estimated that in 20 years' time offshore wind farms will be able to cover 20 pst. of today’s hydropower production in Norway. This corresponds to, as I can figure out, approx. 25 TWh, so this we can't afford not to try to get to the future. All parties at Stortinget agree to bet on this, as far as I have registered. But it may be a little disappointing that the government still doesn't seem to want to bet enough and as targeted and forward-looking as the opposition will, on marine mills in this matter. In that case, it's a very bad thing, because if we're going to be able to realise an increase in the use of this large and almost completely unused wind power potential we have, both along and off our long-range coast in Norway, then the time has come to focus on this now. However, the pace of technological development of offshore wind turbines depends on the commitment to research and development of new and more robust generations of wind turbines that withstand extreme weather impacts in the open sea. It should also be possible for the State to contribute, if necessary, important means of increasing its commitment to research and development in order to create the necessary new technological developments so that we can develop marine mills that can be used for the purposes referred to in this document. So finally, floating offshore offshore offshore offshore mills will be a long and important step in increasing the production of environmentally friendly energy in Norway – and hopefully also in the world. I will take up the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e729	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e732	80 pst. energy consumption in the world today comes from fossil fuels — coal, oil and gas. What will become the major challenge in the future will be to reduce this proportion, while many people who do not have access to electricity today will have access. According to the International Energy Agency, the representative Nordtun will have a global growth in energy demand of 50 p.m. by 2030. It's also within the range of fossil fuels. That's when the IEA says that the big challenge is to create a bridge between the fossil-based society and a renewable energy-based society, and it becomes so crucial. There we have gas, natural gas, which emits half as much coal, which is an important option globally. Then we have the vision that you can take out CO2 from processes related to coal and gas and deposit it. It also fully agrees with the IEA, and it will play a significant role in the future. Then you have renewable energy, which has a great potential, but the challenges are that today's price is too high. It's probably sun. It's ten thousand times as much solar energy that goes to the globe every day compared to what we use. In the case of wind off our coast, at least you can produce 700 TWh, according to NVE, the next few years out to 50 meters by setting up the windmills. That's where we have a huge potential. That is why I was happy when I saw that Minister of Oil and Energy Åslaug Haga said over two pages in the newspaper Dagbladet on 22 October, 'Haga bets at sea', and on gigantic windmills. But what has characterized this government, and as I hope we might have let go of the new council, is that big words go through the air, and you don't deliver the results. That's where we've had a little bit of trouble with the previous Council of State. For example, we were. promised an action plan to avoid a power crisis in Central Norway. We've been waiting for that for two years. We were also promised a better support regime for the release of renewable energy. Nine out of ten wind power projects in Norway are not being developed today because the aid regime is too poor. But on the basis of Haga's statements yesterday, I was absolutely sure that the government parties would at least vote for the proposal that the Left has promoted and taken the initiative. I want to praise the Left for addressing this issue, asking the Government to present a national strategy for the development of wind power production based on marine mills. If I understand correctly, I intend to vote against the proposal for such an action plan, even if the Council of State goes out and says over two pages in the Newspaper that we should bet on the sea. It's just to keep people fooled, that's all. So I urge the government parties to make a conversation with their government council today, and then you get the right vote in the Storting so that you follow up the big words with important votering signals. Otherwise, I woke up early today – yes, I had been awake for a while, then – and listened to a debate from the morning between Tore Nordtun and a few others in the committee. There Nordtun firmly, as he also did in his post now, that he supports the Government's great commitment to renewable energy. It was much larger than the previous government. Then he stuck under the chair that the previous government sent out a bill with the introduction of green certificates. The whole industry, all the actors, agree that green certificates would provide a completely different level of support for renewable energy than what we have today. If you haven't taken it in, it's very difficult to see how you can move on and get a more offensive regime. I see that the new Council of State – which has so far been only offensive in the media and not in the policy that has been delivered, but I also assume that it will – said in the evening post yesterday: «Too bad in the climate. Takes self-criticism. The government's climate effort has not been good enough. It admits Sp-leader Åslaug Haga.” She also refers to the renewable energy effort, and then I wonder: Can’t it be that Tore Nordtun is right that there is a historical commitment when nine out of ten projects in some areas are dropped, while there is too little? It's too bad what we do in terms of renewable energy, and it's too bad what we do in terms of sea mills. There will probably be clear demands in the negotiations on a climate settlement in Stortinget on how to design a level of support for the release of wind turbines in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e756	Measurements along the Norwegian coast show that we have very good wind conditions. 4 500 hours of operation of wind turbines is estimated to be 3000 hours ashore. We have large sea areas, and it is believed, at least so far, that there will be no conflict with these sea mills, even if we will have some conflict. Offshore wind power has so far been installed on shallow water near land. The potential is much greater on deep water, only we can get reduced costs. But we have positive projects in this area. Hydro has ambitious plans in relation to Hywind. They have tested in sea basins with promising results, and now they want to move on and build demonstration facilities that they hope can be completed within one to two years. They have received the NVE concession for a pilot project outside Karmøy or as an alternative to joining a wind turbine on an oil platform. It's very exciting. If we get an offshore wind farm near an oil platform, we'll be able to do two things: we'll be able to reduce the CO2 emissions of these bad and polluting gas power stations that we have on the platforms, and at the same time we'll be involved in developing technology. This is exciting, and we have to facilitate this. We have some advantages in Norway. We're taking advantage of wind conditions. We're taking advantage of technology, because we've been driving offshore for a long time. We have finances. Yes, we have the opportunity to meet the global environmental challenges we face. The low-emission sample setting is ready for us to use the advantages we have. And in the case of sea mills, we have a advantage: we can become a major exporter of new renewable energy, and that should be our goal to become. But political courage is needed, and political action is needed. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants a national strategy for the development of wind power projects based on marine mills. It is especially that today there is not a joint committee that can go in for this. The reality is that we have to use the possibilities we have. 700 TWh, says NVE, so five to six times the energy we have per. Today, but this will not be triggered if we are to have the worst level of support in Europe for this type of technology as well. Ten cents per cent. kWh for immature technology is too bad. The Christian People's Party has said that an objective should be to have 30 TWh of new renewable energy in 2014 and that we should have support rates at such a level that they trigger 30 TWh. We can read yesterday's Evening Post that we have a troubled Council of State in relation to the fact that new renewable initiatives are taking place outside Norway. All right! Then we have to take care of that. Then we have to do something, among other things. for sea wind turbines, and we need to do something about the support system for new renewable energy. We can also read in an NTB message that the government will help get the technology in place in relation to the marine mills. That's good. But if we read the government's draft budget for next year, it's completely flat on clean energy. 2007-2008 is flat. I hope with the input that has come from both the oil and energy ministers and from the new Environment Minister, that we will now go from word to action, and that we will also see it in this specific matter that we are dealing with today, in the budgetary procedure we are going to go into, and in the great climate agreement that we are going to try to get into port.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e778	The International Energy Agency estimates that global energy demand will increase by 50 pst. towards 2030. 80 pst. This increase is calculated as coming from a fossil fuel. This, together with the serious threat of climate change, forms the backbone of this debate and of several debates that this committee will have in due course. The threat to climate and the protection of the world’s new renewable energy means that nature protection interests and environmental protection interests are increasingly inconsistent. This will be e.g. as expressed in debates on the production of new renewable energy, perhaps specifically in debates on the production of hydropower and wind power. The centre party is an environmental party. We are busy with sustainable and good nature management and strong environmental protection. Offshore wind power is perhaps one of the energy production solutions that seem to be most concerned with both the environment and nature protection. Therefore, the Centre Party is keen to strengthen research and development in this field in order to stimulate the development of this type of technology and energy production. I am glad that the Council of State has warned that it wants this to be a field of initiative in time, and that the ambition is that Norway should be the leader in the development of such technology. This is not random. We have a unique possibility, because for many years we have been among the leading nations when it comes to offshore technology, and because we have a long experience with offshore activity. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State indicates that the investment in offshore wind power will be signalled and organised in the Joint Research and Technology Development Programme in the energy sector, Energy21. The strategy shall be established through close cooperation between governance, research institutions and the energy industry. This is what we from the Center Party's page naked about. In fact, we believe that through such a holistic effort, what is also the ambition of the proposers, is a good coordination of the work on new renewable energy technologies, because it is not such that success in this area can be measured in the number of state strategies or the number of programmes. The most important thing must be the concrete results of the programmes and actions. One could comment on the representative Børge Brende's comments in many ways, but I can't raise myself from the claims that come up there. In fact, we in the Central Party believe that nothing is better than that an opposition party is impatient to achieve the goals that the Government has seen in its government statement. We have large seas and thus many possibilities to test out energy production with windmills at sea. However, it is important to ensure that any such production can exploit land where there is no conflict with other commercial interests. Fishing, transport and petroleum industries are examples of these. One of the freshest shots on the trunk when it comes to offshore wind power projects is Vestavind Kraft's plans for a plant on the Stad Sea. The company has been in conversation with both fishing interests and others to find a location that conflicts at least with other interests. This is an example for follow-up. However, there is a high level of coordination in this area. The Ministry has launched an assessment of the legal implications of the use of seas for renewable electricity production and of how any large-scale expansion should be facilitated. It's an important grip. Finally, the production of energy by offshore wind turbines can mean much for the future. It can represent great potential for Norway, because it is scarce with both more renewable energy and the development of a clean energy production technology. This can mean a lot, because you can get a job here. But it won't happen this year, and it won't happen next year either. Maybe it could be 15–20 years before this thing starts on a large scale. There are major technological challenges to it. That's why we can't just sit down and wait for the technology to get ready, and every time the conflicts arise when other types of renewable energy are created, we don't agree until we have offshore wind power. No, we need to keep working parallel on facilitating the production of micro and mini-power plants, wind energy on land, bio-heat and bio-electricity production, and more research on wave and sun as energy sources, because offshore wind power is not the whole solution to future energy production in the world, but it can be an important part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e801	Let me start by saying that I, as committee leader and as the Energy Commissioner of the Left, look forward to good cooperation with the new Council of State. I have now been in the United States for five weeks, partly as an observer to the United Nations, and have not met the Council of State before. But I have registered that she has been very ambitious about investing in renewable energy sources, and has criticised the government's efforts so far. I have also recorded that she has said that the government's climate policy is not good enough, and that a more ambitious approach needs to be made. Me and Left have been identified as the Government's leading opponents in the field of renewable energy policy. I record that in my absence, Haga has replaced that role. Marine mill bets are an important part of the low-emission sample setting. When the Left promoted its proposal in April, this was not the subject of the political agenda. Gradually, there have been many new ones. It is positive that the Left's proposal for a national strategy to invest in sea mills has helped to put this important issue on the political agenda. But what we definitely do not need is another area of energy policy with seemingly full agreement and great ambitions, without the policy needed to trigger the necessary measures. Today’s debate has demonstrated that sea mills have enormous potential, which can provide large amounts of clean energy and can also be linked to offshore electrification and thus contribute to a significant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, not only indirectly but also directly. It is also very exciting that large industrial opportunities for a nation are linked to an industry with long and good experience in offshore installations. It is necessary to initiate heavy and coordinated efforts in the case of sea mills. That is why a national strategy is necessary. I am disappointed that the parties to the government will not take part in the proposal that the Left has put forward, which is endorsed by an overall opposition. I record that an overall committee meets a national strategy. I hope that the Council of State today can confirm that there will be such a strategy, and that she can say something about when it will come, and what it should contain. In the view of the Left, a national strategy should contain clear, committed objectives. It should include promises of support for pilot projects, substantially better production aid than is currently in the Government’s design, crystallisation of test areas, increased research efforts, etc. There must be a rapid dialogue with stakeholders in order to identify which of the contributors should contribute. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is an application from the municipality of Karmøy for funds for a test centre for marine energy production on Karmøy, which can be linked to the pilot projects now notified in the areas outside Karmøy. It's important to think big to achieve the climate goals we've set ourselves. Norway, which has made good use of fossil energy exports, has a clear commitment to contribute in this area. Sea mills are an area where we can contribute. I record that the Council of State says Norway will be world leader in this area. In the contribution of the Ministry to the Committee there is much more reserved. There one says that one will also identify the potential of a possible bet on sea mills. Sea mills can become important in the long term, and that is one of many possibilities. I am curious whether the Council of State will today appear in its newest edition or in the more reserved ministerial edition that has so far characterized the government's policy in this area, including what has been presented in the state budget and the climate communication, which has recently been presented, where there are no indications that sea mills are an area in which a large-scale effort will be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e829	This is a very exciting thing. As we from SV see it, we believe that sea mills can lead us into the third energy bag of Norway. The first energy stroke was the hydropower. Wise people in this room made sure that it was not only for private use, but also for the benefit of the whole community and helped to build the country. The second heavy industrial and energy bag is the one we're into right now. It's the era of oil and gas development. The third epoch can become the offshore windmill epoch if we are wise and able to lead a political and capable of building up under the forces that are already operating such activities, such as SWAY, and StatoilHydro through its Hywind project, and grasp the competences that, among other things, are. the research communities in the Trondheim area actually own today. We have two good assumptions that suggest that Norway should become a leader. One is that we have one of Europe's and also the world's best winners for sea wind turbines. The longer to sea they are placed, the stronger and more stable the wind. The wind gives us a clear competitive advantage because we can produce the largest amount of electricity for a given investment. If you're going to choose between building a huge windmill in the middle of Germany or out in the Norwegian Sea, you're going to get more money for every invested penny by building it out in the sea. Secondly, we know a lot about marine installations because of the oil industry. The strong electrical and industrial environments we have, on the other hand, contribute to such competence. This, together with the land-based wind power producers, is a good base for the development of sea mills. If we seize the chance, this can be a blessing to the country both in the way that we manage to create energy, but also because we can build up research. We can take a leading role in developing this, and in the long term we can build up a supplier industry for the production of wind turbines. We can make sure that this gives stable power generation. Some of these technology-leading manufacturers are always to be skeptical and take it with a pinch of salt when they say that prices can be reduced well below the price level of the long-term contracts on the Nord Pool power exchange. This has enormous climate potential. Energy is the very basis for growth. If they're going to have energy in those parts of the world that don't have it today, and if we're going to create growth there, they need energy. In China, in India and other parts of the world where they have wind, this could be an important climate action for the whole world. In addition, it could be important for Norway, because we have the ability to electrify the socket, and we have the opportunity to replace more and more forms of fossil fuel technologies with environmentally friendly technology. So there's one thing that's important to remember, and as I think is very important that, among other things. StatoilHydros Alexandra Bech Gjørv by his discussions and posts in newspapers have pointed out, and that is that we cannot grasp the sea moths and say that this should be the answer to our challenges today. I believe that the research study, the foresight study, presented by the Research Council, is very clear. They say here there is a need to think that a comprehensive energy plan is to be drawn up for the Norwegian base. They're very clear that this should be seen in a whole. The environmental movement is very clear and says that you can't wait for sea windmills to electrify the base. You have to expand infrastructure, put wind power on land to do this. The lack of power and the power shortage in central Norway cannot be resolved by sea windmills in the short term. One must get speed on windmill expansion now. This is something that's a little bit ahead of time, and you have to grips with the short-term needs as well. We need to strengthen research efforts, and we need to clarify the legal basis for deploying these wind turbines on a Norwegian base. In the first place, maybe the most important thing we do is to back up with pure prototype support for the installations that the different companies are now building.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e856	I'm happy for the commitment to sea windmills from a total mass. That's a good starting point to keep working on this. I'm a great enthusiast, and I'm so lucky that I'm going to be allowed to participate in organizing an offensive bet. That's what the government wants, and that's what the climate announcement says. The investment in wind turbines is part of the sharp price conversion that this government represents in the case of renewable energy. It is tempting to hear the submissions here today reminding us that there were no plans in the renewables field when we took over two years ago. Now we're doing a good job, but I think in fact no one should be proud of what we've been doing in Norway overall on the renewable side over the years beyond what we've been saying about hydropower, which we're going to enjoy. However, we need a greater diversity of forms of energy in the renewable sector, and a great effort is now being made to add it. I would like to remind the representative Gunnar Kvassheim and others that when I talk about that I do not think we have done everything we should have done in this area from this government, I also say quite clearly that I do not think that the previous government did its job either. We could have a different starting point when we're going to work on renewable energy. This week I will have a report from Enova, which they have ordered, on the potential for sea wind turbines. This report will show that the potential for exploiting the wind at sea is enormous and far greater than the representative Børge Burnde had in mind. Compared to land wind conditions, wind conditions are better and more stable at sea. I'm not saying it's without conflict to have sea wind farms, but it's quite obvious that the level of conflict will be lower than what we look at in the country. Offshore wind power is a good piece from a commercially profitable level today, and significant cost reductions are required. It can be achieved through technological development in a combination of research and development and demonstration activity. A successful realisation of marine energy will require efforts from an overall Norwegian image of an actor. It needs to make a significant effort on research and development. Industry must set up, regulatory authority must do its job, and we must definitely have the instrument in motion. I am concerned that Norway, with its strong technological offshore environment, has good prospects for being at the forefront of the development of offshore wind turbines. What's going to be happy about this is that we can get the electrified socket, and that we can get a lot of energy produced for us marines, or for exports in the future. We will move on to this work and then facilitate efforts in three areas: research and development, demonstration projects and production support. The Hywind project and the SWAY project have been discussed. There are applications at Enova now, and if these projects are as good as they are, there should be provision for substantial support from Enova. We're talking about a total of tens of millions of dollars. A comprehensive strategy on research and development related to renewable energy is being pursued, which we refer to as Energy21. In the work on Energy21, it has been suggested that sea wind turbines should be central. In other words, the plans for research and development are in progress, and in addition, we know that demonstration projects are right around the corner, as everything indicates that there will be appropriations from Enova for special projects that become known in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e880	Governments say we haven't done enough. This government promised the greatest investment in renewable energy in the past. However, it all boiled more or less away and became a great disappointment to the actors. The windmill building has stopped due to bad framework conditions. Small-scale development will now be hampered by new tax rules. So green certificates that could really mean something to bet on new renewable energy are wrecked by the Government, and instead there was going to be a better system, called it first, and eventually at least as good as the green certificate scheme would be. When the government’s proposal for new renewable energy support schemes was delayed, it became a real disappointment for all actors. Everyone felt tricked around by the government's beautiful promises of the time's commitment to renewable energy. So my question is: will this Council look at new renewable energy support schemes with new eyes, or will the forerunner's lack of support schemes be stuck in this area for the next two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e891	This government represents a sharp change in the price of renewable energy investment. Nothing has ever been granted in the vicinity of so much money for renewable energy. As far as 2008 is concerned, I am sure the representative is aware that the efforts will be doubled. I do not know myself again in the description that all actors feel cheated in connection with the investment in renewable energy. That's not right at all. I talk to renewables representatives every day. They're happy with a number of the bets that are in there. So that's the area we're struggling with. In wind power, it is a fact that the level of costs has increased dramatically in recent times. But the description given by the representative is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e900	Governments have a pedagogical challenge when she starts by saying that we have not been good enough in terms of renewable energy, while claiming that there has been a sharp change in the course of this effort. I have to say that there are some people who have not done their job writing to the Council of State about what was actually there when the red-green took over. So there were plans. It is not like the Council of State claimed that there were no renewable energy plans. It was sent out a bill that meant that we would get a system of green certificates. It would have given twice as high rates of renewable energy in relation to what we have today. This was among other things: a system requested by the Centre Party itself. Then you can't stand on Stortingen's pulpit and say that there was nothing there. There was something much better. That's why the government has to tighten up. That is why nine out of ten renewable projects have not been triggered – which is now being dropped. My question to the Council of State is: When the Council of State claims to be so offensive, why, after two weeks in the chair, did she send out new regulations relating to renewable energy that would amount to aid that was not sufficient? So it was after 14 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e909	There were many elements here. I think that the representative Burne also has some pedagogical challenges in describing the offensive efforts of the previous government. It is true that the Center Party also had ambitions to create an electricity licence market with Sweden. I'd like to see that we got it. But it was simply not possible to negotiate until then. Green certificates were the only thing that lay as an idea from the previous government. It was not feasible. With regard to the new electricity support system, I am concerned that we will get it in place, and that we will get that place quickly. In the regulations sent out at the hearing, I have simply taken the decision of the Stortinge. At the same time, I have said that I believe there is a need to go through all our renewable support schemes. It's obvious that we have challenges in some areas. I'm open to see if there's going to be any changes. But now we have to be able to pair our legs in such a way that we actually get a system up, so that we get our renewable effort on the rails.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e920	The Council of State spoke of a sharp change in the price of new renewable energy. At least the Council of State should be honest with what it itself writes in the budget proposal: ‘The Government intends to introduce the new renewable energy support scheme from 1 January 2008.’» [[...]] At least let's get to 2 January. Then we'll see if ESA has approved this. Then we'll see if what the government has managed to do is a sharp transformation. I want to draw attention to Energy21, with which the Council of State concluded its contribution. We need more knowledge, and we need to follow the strategy in 2008, we say in the proposition – but the allocation is flat. New things are going into Energy21 and ENERGY – but the allocation is flat. How will the Council of State solve this sharp conversion when the allocation is flat, and more should be included in these different programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e932	There is a sharp change in the price of doubling the effort on renewable energy. By contrast, we only double the effort from 2007 to 2008. In addition, what we did from the time we took over, and until 2007. There is a sharp reversal of the rate of investment in renewable energy compared to what the previous government stood for. There is no doubt whatsoever about this. So we can discuss whether that's enough, but it's a completely different discussion. As far as the electricity support system is concerned, it is right, as the representative said, that we have some challenges in relation to ESA. I'm sorry. On the other hand, I have good faith that we are going to be able to get the system in place, so that it becomes operational as quickly as possible. Our ambition is still that it should be from 1 January. But it's not on us. It's ESA. We need to get a bet on sea wind turbines in combination with what we're going to do from the state, and that's what the industry is going to do. Fortunately, demonstration projects are soon underway. I'm glad we're going to get on with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e941	Although there is no majority in the vote to decide on the request for a national strategy for maritime investment, a unanimous committee says that such a national strategy is being met. Can the Council confirm that it will come? And can she say anything about when it will come, and in what form it will be presented to the Storing? It is not that what the Council of State has done is to criticise something that is far behind in time. She has had a very critical look at the climate communication, which was presented in June. SV has said that had they been alone in government, this message would have been much more ambitious. The centre party has said that they would have gone much further. Can the Council confirm that it is therefore the Workers' Party that is the problem in relation to the lack of ambitions of the Climate Communication, as both the Centre Party and the SV would go so much further?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e948	I fully support the climate announcement that was presented to Stortinget in June. My point is that no government has done enough in relation to climate. No government has done enough in the past in relation to renewable energy. Had that been the case, we wouldn't have been where we are today, where there is a need to take the big roofs that we now need to do. As far as the strategy on wind turbines is concerned, this will be part of the major strategy that will be called Energy21, which we will have a draft by 5 February, and which will then be debated politically. But in addition to the research and development strategy, we will have demonstration projects standing up, and everything indicates that the appropriations for the first demonstration projects are right around the corner. Nothing pleases me any more. The reality is that the strategy is in place in the sense that the practical work is taking place, the demonstration projects are underway, the research plan is in cool and comes into the new year relatively quickly. Wind power, offshore windmills are part of that strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e955	Governments have repeatedly claimed that there has been a significant exchange rate conversion with this government. The only course conversion that actually took place was that one went very far from the green certificate, which a total of four years demanded was to come, and which an actually expected was to be completed under the red-green government, but which was then put on ice. At least the Council of State has been liberating honestly on one point, and that is that the previous Council of State, the Minister of Energy of the Senter Party, did not deliver what he promised. For two years we heard in this room that this government had put forward as good a renewable policy as possible. Now the state council is going to further improve it, and it shows that the Enoch wasn't completely honest when he spoke to the Stortinget. But what this proposal concerns is an overall approach to offshore wind power. The opposition has proposed that a communication be made on the state of energy of the State of the Kingdom, i.e. an overall approach to energy policy in Norway. It was downhearted. We put forward a proposal for an overall approach to Tread layers and the power price there. It was downhearted. What is the problem since government parties cannot support the need to formulate a comprehensive energy-related strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e965	There's something funny about the opposition not getting up with more creative grips than green certificates. I would like to see that we had put in place green certificates, which I have been working for for years. But it was not possible to get a negotiated solution with Sweden. It's sad, but it's the reality. And then I'm concerned that we're going to move on, take concrete, practical action, which we're now doing related to, for example. the demonstration projects with sea wind turbines. Energy21 is an overall approach to how we will work in the future to drive alternative renewable energy. There is a comprehensive compilation of the efforts to be made in the various fields. It shows that we have an offensive approach to the totality of the renewables field. The size is right at this moment occupied by ocean windmills. I think we should be concerned about it, but we should also be concerned that in Norway we should have a wide range of renewable energy carriers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e970	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e975	It is very positive to hear that there is a great deal of goodwill in this room with regard to investing in renewable energy solutions. If we are to help solve the climate challenges facing the world, this is an obvious and important area, which requires considerable attention and commitment in the future. I support all those who have highlighted the importance of focusing on new and better solutions in renewable energy and the development of marine mills in particular. In order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and create new economic pathways and jobs in the future, there may be great opportunities in sea-going wind turbines. It is obvious that both Norway and other countries will limit the amount of renewable energy that can be developed without major conflicts of interest. It's e.g. high resistance in the reindeer industry in northern Norway to large land-consuming wind farms on land. If we are able to develop new solutions based on wind turbines at high seas, this may help to resolve many of the conflicts that will arise as a result of a necessary transition from non-renewable energy sources to renewable energy sources. That is why it is important that we start this work as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of examples of good renewable energy pilot projects being moved abroad because there is no support device to lift these types of projects in Norway. The Tidewater Power Plant of Hammerfest Stroem in Kvalsundet and Fred Olsen's wave power project are examples of this. I'm afraid that the same thing can happen with the concepts we have in marine moths, if we don't bet on this right now. In order to halt this movement of renewable energy pilot projects, I would like to stress the importance and the need for government parties to get on the road and to contribute to the establishment of a resilient investment support scheme for such projects. I therefore hope that the commitment we have seen in the matter today can trigger such an arrangement in connection with the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, so that we can get further into the work in this important area. When we have a country that looks geographically as it actually does, with an infinitely long coast with stable wind conditions, the potential for wind power generation using marine mills is vast to the sea. Sea mills are not land-intensive and therefore not conflict-making in relation to, among other things. travel, leisure, sanitation and other vulnerable wildlife. That is why it is also incredibly important that we tackle and focus on developing a national strategy in this area now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e988	The council said that now the Stortinget was busy with sea windmills, but she wanted one to be concerned with all types of renewable energy. Then I would just like to welcome the Council of State to the energy debate. It's been going on for two years. It is more likely that there are marine wind turbines that are the topic today, but renewable energy in general, thorium, gas power, all this has been discussed a lot in the Committee and in the Stortinget. And that is precisely why the proposal is being promoted: despite two years of debate and countless promises from the predecessors of the Council of State, very little has been put into practice. It is interesting to see that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre write in the comments that the proposal is relevant. The proposal is relevant – but it is obviously not relevant enough for one to vote for it. It's only relevant enough for someone to comment on it. The proposal is entirely unproblematic. There is no commitment to the Government to what a strategy should mean, besides that we want to put in place a strategy that formulates what you want, and that one puts political finger-prints on this, and not just refers to the Research Council and Enova, that is, the bureaucracy, who are going to work on this. Where is the political governance if we say we're going to bet on something? There's no willingness of the government to commit, and that's very sad. The representative of Nordtun said that the time here is unnecessary, because this is stated in the climate communication. When this setting was issued, the climate notification was not submitted to Stortinget. The opposition had no idea if there was anything about sea windmills, but the government parties obviously felt that sea windmills were not so important that one needed to put it into practice in a strategy. So we've heard a lot of self-confidence from the Government on Renewable Energy. After all, there are no parties that have fought against renewable energy. I don't understand that self-esteem. What one has heard from the opposition, on the other hand, is a system criticism, a criticism that one does not go far enough, that the aid schemes are too small in relation to the ambitions that one has expressed. The representative Sande said we should measure the results. Yes, that's exactly why the criticism comes – because everyone was expecting a bet that made one get realized projects. Instead, we see a bet that is so small that projects are put on ice. Then I register that the Council of State takes up green certificates and says that it was not possible to reach an agreement with Sweden. The previous state council said it was possible to get an agreement, but it would not be good enough for Norway, because the investments would come in Sweden. So here it's a little bit different story description. I also record that the Swedes said they were very interested in getting an agreement, but it didn't seem like the Norwegians wanted it. And we know what kind of disagreement exists between the Center Party and SV about hydropower. The Swedes would allow a lot of hydropower. That did not want SV, and thus a Swedish system in Norway would be impossible. Why this proposal? Well, it is important to have a concrete decision in the Stortinget precisely because the former Council of State has promised and promised and promised – on a renewable basis, on an industrial power regime, on a home-fall regime, on a mid-Norway action plan, and we have never seen anything about it in the Stortinget. That is why the Storting must now show the way and vote in favour of the proposal under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1007	I support all those who have emphasised how important it is now to focus on new and better solutions in the field of renewable energy, and in particular the development of marine mills. It is obvious that if we succeed in this area, we will be able to realise large amounts of energy, new economic pathways and more jobs in the future. Norway is also well placed to achieve this. Norwegian environments obviously, due to their experience with offshore petroleum activities, have specific prerequisites for developing and ripening solutions in sea-going windmills. Just as the Danes have succeeded in building up an industry around land-based wind power, so in Norway we can do so with sea-going solutions. That is why I think it is very positive that parties on the Stortinget support the Left's proposal for a national strategy for wind power generation based on marine mills. If we're to succeed, it requires that we get started quickly. I therefore hope that the government parties can be more concrete and join the proposals for measures promoted in the vote. I must also point to some other issues that will be of importance for a bet on sea mills. It is important that we take with us the experience we have gained in today's solutions in wind energy. In this connection, I would like to draw up plans for the development of a traditional offshore wind farm on the Syreground outside of Rogaland/Agder, which is actually an important spawning and fishing area. The project has encountered considerable resistance among fishermen, who fear that, among other things: will affect the stock of fish. Impact assessments and good dialogue with regard to conflicts of interest, such as fisheries, industry and the maritime environment, are very important. It is therefore necessary to draw up a plan for the use of sea mills. It is clear that increasing the investment in renewable energy sources could lead to more conflicts of interest. It is therefore important for the Government to start work on developing a national strategy in the field of marine mills. Good assessments of possible effects on fisheries, other industries and the maritime environment must be based. If we are to solve the climate challenges we face, we are dependent on good interaction between governments and industries, while taking into account the marine environment. Finally, marine mills must also be seen in a wider global context as an important contribution to renewable energy in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1018	It might characterize this big thing that someone wants to discuss in detail something that you initially agree on. Because it's actually a total collapse that has faith in electricity production offshore. We agree that the potential as it now emerges is great, and that it would be unwise not to kind of go along a line where one tries to exploit the potential one can see the contours of. Offshore wind power — and there is agreement — also eliminates some of the problems that may lie in the wake of land-based wind power. A foresight report from Research Seed delivered in September 2007 suggests 25 TWh in 2027. It suggests a reduction of 18 million. tonnes of CO2 emitted, and not least that there will be sales in Norwegian enterprises of DKK 10 billion as a result of the offshore investment up to 2027, i.e. significant potentials. The most likely reality may be that the possibilities are even greater than what appears in the report. But it suggests more than just the possibilities. It also analyses a little about the life-related challenges against investment costs, it addresses the overall picture of costs, it poses some problems around network connectivity, and it poses some problems around the law. In spite of this, it's a total expansion that wants us to address the challenges, and believes that it's right to bet on getting a good grip on the potential that lies on offshore wind power, or marine mills. An overall committee emphasises that a ‘competes a national strategy for offshore wind power’. Therefore, the proposal that the opposition now chooses to run rhetorically, could have been transmitted just as often, because in the Storting there is an agreement to follow the lines, which the Council of State has also been on. So, finally, those who now want – once again – to bring this debate into the context of the support mechanisms to do with new renewable energy are bombing very much, at my discretion. Firstly, this is not about support schemes for new renewable energy. This is about how to bring an immature technology into a mature phase where it can be commercialised and where we can exploit this potential. It must therefore be decoupled from the aid scheme debate, which is actually becoming a little daunting in relation to the opportunities offered by offshore wind power. It's a challenge, and that challenge seems to me to have taken the Council of State in an excellent way. These are the possibilities we're going to use and make clear, unless the opposition itself is able to conceal the possibility that is actually there, through its rhetorical exercises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1032	I do not know what is presumptuous in this debate. At least there's no championship in rhetorical exercises. If someone wants to move from word to action, one should actually in government year three have understood that the time now was soon in to do so. The fact is, in this case too, that despite the great will we rhetorically see a solid decision-making refusal, which has shaped this government from day one in the environment and energy sector. At least the answer for the future of our planet's greatest challenge is not in what the previous government did. The answer is not what Enova is going to do, or what the Research Council is going to do. The answer must be to try to get consensus and decisions on these issues, which we are discussing again today, and – in brackets – which even the Norwegian Nobel Committee has taken on board to illustrate the importance and importance of building bridges between fossil society and renewables. So in today's debate, the government parties also use that image that they do twice as much as the previous government did. So we are going back to 2001–2005, knowing that there are economic muscles and DKK 120 billion more at our disposal in the financial year 2008 than the last government had in its final year, and also knowing the enormous focus that is on these issues today versus what was the case only a few years ago. It is not the previous government that is the scale of today's debate. The measure is based on the conditions in the development of renewable energy that one has outside its borders. It should have already been discovered that this development has partly stopped in our homeland. For example, when the framework conditions for developing new renewable energy in this area are three times better in the rest of the world today, we cannot be surprised that one project after another is being put on ice, or that Norwegian development is taking place abroad rather than in Norway. Where is the willingness to cooperate with the opposition on these issues? Looking forward to the even greater task of bringing about a climate policy settlement in the Grand Duchy, the signal by voting down this proposal is deplorable in my view as to where the climate policy agreement can end.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1045	There has been very good argument in support of the proposal by the minority in the Committee. I just have to admit that I have no excessive belief that my argument leads to the government parties turning around in this case, and I think that is really a pity. There are many plans for wind farms on land and in rural areas just off our coast. Most have been iced due to the level of aid. This has to be done if we are serious about investing in renewable energy. What characterises the discussion of wind farms on land and in the vicinity of countries is the high level of conflict. This often conflicts with outdoor life and not least with travel and fishing interests. Therefore, there is a unique chance of doing something in the renewable energy field to build sea mills, as promoted in the proposal, and then a national strategy must be launched to accept the population and also to get a process on it. There is a significant gain in electrification on the base. There are companies that are investigating this that think it's not paying off, but it's based on given assumptions, and things change fast. In our time, where the main challenge is climate, it is important to be in front of renewable energy efforts, so that we can see our children and grandchildren in the eyes and not have to throw our eyes into the ground when we meet them in the future. Then, as many speakers have spoken, it is important to get across from word to action. I agree with the representative Ivar Kristiansen that it is now time to stop talking about what the previous government did and did not. Now we go into the third year with this government, and now this government has to measure from what it itself does, and not compare with what happened too many years ago. Things change – freedom of action is also quite different from it was then. It is an active and forward-looking proposal available from the minority in the case of offshore wind power generation. Like many other government parties, I urge you to support this proposal. We have a maritime industry that is just waiting for a clear signal, we have competence, and we also have investment environments that are willing to bet, but then there must be a clear signal from Stortinget. It is the minority proposal that can give, and not that the proposal is annexed to the Minutes. It's a bad signal from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1056	State Council Åslaug Haga came in as a fresh wind in the Oil and Energy Ministry. For two years there has been no doubt that in the opposition, when we have taken up increased investment in renewable energy, we have felt committed to Don Quijote's fight against windmills with our initiative, and I think that the Council of State started very offensively. But today, obviously, the wind has lied. The starting point for the Council of State in the Evening Post yesterday was: ‘Sp Leader Åslaug Haga admits that the government’s climate action has not been good enough. [[...]] Haga will have a dramatic increase in the investment in renewable energy." At the same time, she says here that there has been a sharp change in the course of this government. But if you need ‘a dramatic increase in the investment in renewable energy’, it also says something about the situation after two years of red-green policy. You can't get away from the fact that when you dropped the green certificates, the Stortinget promised you would come up with a system that was at least as good. When that system, and the money you give, just means a support that represents half of what the green certificates would have done, it's not a good thing to abandon the market-driven green certification system, because then it's the situation that nine out of ten wind power projects in Norway are dropped because Norway has Europe's worst system. And then the Council of State is right that the Government has not done its job in this area, and that you need a dramatic increase. Beyond 1 TWh with wind power in the exposed Middle Norway in relation to the power crisis is dropped by Nord-Trøndelag Electricity plant out on Vikna. We also see that Hammerfest Energie has flagged out to Scotland, and we see that Fred. The oil wave project is also about to fly out to Scotland. In fact, what we are discussing today also has something to do with wind turbines, because the support regime that the government has set up, as it says in the attached letter to the committee, means that immature technologies get 10 cents per. kWh in production aid for the next 15 years. 10 øre – it is barely enough to trigger the conventional wind turbines. So this is simply not good enough. I think you have to first admit that you never came up with a system that was good enough to replace the green certificates, and be honest with it. Then we're going to have a system now in the context of the climate agreement that makes Norway competitive here, and then we're talking about a dramatic and powerful change of course. There has been a major change in course in a worse direction. It reminds me a little bit that Djupedal spent two years saying that there was no cut in higher education and research, and when he left, he criticized the government for imposing this on him – he was against it all the time. We have hope that Åslaug Haga will not come to the moment of truth at a later stage, but now simply implements the policy that is necessary. This must also be the starting point for discussion in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1065	I remember that Børge Burnde is full of rhetoric, but that's also the only thing he's full of. Because when he spends three minutes talking about green certificates, even though he knows that green certificates wouldn't help a single seamill a single mile further out to sea, it gets a little empty. What industry has said in relation to sea mills is this: the most important step to take is to increase support for prototypes – that is the first thing now. Hywind has searched, and later on, according to all probability SWAY is going to search. It is clear that the extra refuelling of the Energy Fund to which our government has committed is important for how much money is available to help the marine mills a step further in this start-up phase. The other important thing they have said is that we need to get legal work done to ensure that it is possible to place seamills on the Norwegian continental shelf within our economic zone. Because we have a good deal around oil installations, but we don't have a lot of legislation internationally on marine mills. If we do that job, grab it – and Åslaug Haga has said that we do, we've got it under control, we're working on this now, and within a week or something like this, we're going to deal with the application from Hywind – so we're going to take the first step that's absolutely necessary. The second step is in line with what the opposition has proposed and, as it was rightly pointed out here from the Labour Party instead, the whole Committee agrees that a national strategy on offshore wind power is being met. Then it's the opposition's privilege to be allowed to promote the exact same thing in a proposal and get it down and say that the government is doing nothing. But remember, after the committee set-up came, there's one thing that's happened, and that's that the Research Council is conducting a foresight study, and there's one thing said: they say that what you need is an overall energy plan for Norwegian pedestal. It's not just about offshore windmills. It must also be about the whole of the electrification of oil and gas power plants. It is about connection to countries, external relations, environmental considerations and shipping routes. It's not just about a national strategy for offshore wind turbines, but about seeing the whole of these things. There Åslaug Haga said that this is something we're working on. We're going to come back with the work that's done completely on the energy side. It's coming. It's presented in February, and then we're going to work on these things. I was hoping for a broad debate on marine moths. Instead, we got first and foremost a debate from the opposition on green certificates, and that – well, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1076	I've been thinking a lot about Odd Roger Enoksen over the past few weeks. The government's management, not least the subcommittee that put the framework into the state budget and finished the work on the climate communication, left the framework for the work he was going to meet the Stortinge, with which he defended and said that the support schemes we have are historically good and sufficient. Climate communication is historically good and sufficient. Then came one of the politicians who has been central to putting Odd Roger Enoxen in his position, saying that renewable energy support schemes are far too bad, and that climate policy is far too bad. But those who thought that there was a new time with the new state council have today been confirmed that one is fully on the way back to the old positions. There were people who said that when a joint committee says that one meets a strategy for sea mills, it will come. Now the Council of State has said that this will be backed up as part of a larger project, yes, basically one is already there, because it is to be supported by Enova for a pilot project. What is the opposition's point is that here we are talking about a big project that has to do with both new production and cut emissions. Then you want to have this as a whole presented in a national strategy. I had expected the SV's representative who said that this was the entrance to a new historical era, to understand the importance that the Stortinge would have presented this in some way as soon as possible. I am concerned about the future of the offshore wind farm in Norway. We have experienced that tidal projects are leaving the country. One hundred million. Kronering on wave power is about to leave the country. I want to ask the Council of State a question. Does she view the test facility for marine energy production planned at Karmøy, to which the Ministry has been applied for support, as a natural part of the infrastructure needed to realise the sea-milling operation? Then, once again, I want to challenge the Council of State on this with a national strategy. How does she see the Committee's overall expectation that a national strategy will come from the Government? Can we expect it to be presented with the elements that the opposition has put in view here, which one believes should be included in such a commitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1088	When it now paints and lilies towards the end of this debate, and one takes a small summary, I see that most of those who have spoken today are fully supportive of the opportunities offered by the sea windmills, development and potential that lie there, etc. My request to the proposers is: why not submit the proposal instead of being annexed to the Minutes? That would have been a good contribution, I think, so that we could get together about it to get a common strategy for this, and so that the opposition also gets involved in the organization. Then it's said that you don't have a strategy. We now have the Climate Communication for consideration in the Committee. The Climate Communication also mentions this and provides leadership in this area. Here, the proposers are given the full opportunity to engage with full weight, and I expect the committee to complete its position before Christmas. So the Council of State says that we are in the process of facilitating offshore investment, both in research, demonstration and production support. The councils even said on the Stockholm Chair a short time ago that several tens of millions of dollars are on their way to this very thing. This work is not hibernated, to which some from the opposition parties would like it. It is also embedded in a total strategy, Energy21, which comes right over the new year, where sea mills are included. Practical work is also being done, yes, I think it is doing a good job in this area. The council even said during this week, and then I think it is too wrong that the proposal from, among other things. The left shall only be annexed to the minutes. We are on it, but my request and my recommendation are that the proposers ask for it to be sent, and then, of course, we shall fully support it. It is then included as a whole, and the whole Stortinget will then look at the proposal in the context of further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1099	I'm starting with the word to answer questions from the representative of Kvassheim about a special project. To that I just have to answer that individual projects cannot be dealt with in the Stortinget. Otherwise I have to say that this has been a debate that I feel is a bit special in the sense that here all the parties are enthusiastic about sea windmills. I think I'm brilliant. However, when you listen to the debate, you can almost get the impression that the opposition is tired of the fact that there is a wide and concrete effort on the part of the Government. We must respectfully be able to say that here the opposition is opening doors, because the plans are in progress. A comprehensive approach to research and development is being pursued, where wind turbines are a major component. This is part of the work on Energy21. A proposal from the actors who are now working on it comes on 5 February. Then the plan has to be dealt with politically, and we have to go out with the very specific content of it. All this work will be done in close cooperation with the research institutions, but also with industry, which at last must be a crucial element of these processes. In addition to research and development, we are committed to launching demonstration projects as quickly as possible. And then it's true, as has been said by several people here, that everything indicates that in a very short time we will have allocated funds that will enable us to get on with the demonstration projects. I've had the pleasure of talking to different actors in this area over the past few weeks. Enthusiasm is great, the concrete is great and the money is coming. This is why it is good for us to get this big and important project up and running. But let it now be clear that this is not commercial today. We need to take action to get technology commercially, and in this context, it is the effort to fight research and development and the efforts to tackle the demonstration projects that will be absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1110	I think everyone in the room is pleased to hear the council talking about a wide bet on sea windmills. The reason why this has become a debate is that we heard terribly little about it during the previous Council of State. And that's why the Storting and the opposition – all honour to the Left who promoted the proposal – actually needed to address this issue at a higher level. The reason why I'm not going to convince myself that we should draw the proposal, is that for two years I've heard the exact same offensive rhetoric that this council is now presenting. It is not new to this Committee. It has been promised a great deal of investment in most of it and action plans in the east and west, but little has come to the Stortinget. And that's why the Storting in this debate makes a decision, so that we don't end up in the same situation as when we discussed the power situation in Middle Norway a year and a half ago, when the Right proposed and wanted a plan of action. Then we heard from all the red-green politicians: yes, we agree that we should take action in Middle Norway, because the situation is not sustainable. But did any action plan come to Stortinget? No, no, no. And when we started to ask for it, after drawing the proposal, the answer was that it was never meant to be presented to the Stortinget. It was only to be an internal action plan of the Government. But that was not what the opposition asked for. And that's not what the opposition is asking for now either. We are asking for a strategy that has a political fingerprint, which has a depression that makes it possible to deal with it, and not only had to read in the Newspaper and the Nations that now the Council of State will go out and be offensive in this area. And then there's nothing for which we can make the Council responsible afterwards. That's what's missing here. It is therefore this renewable message that should be the largest in time and that would pass green certificates ended up as a four-page groceries message. Four pages are barely enough of the contents of a normal torrent message. So it was the bet of the times. This is precisely why the Storting must now begin to make decisions, so that we make the Council of State responsible and ensure that the Council of State delivers and reports to the Stortinget, and does not act as an independent political commentator in the media that gets a lot of microphones in the face, but never any critical questions. There is reason to show that this government has been very little willing to concrete its energy policy – probably because there have been major internal disputes. About 24 hours after the adoption of the Soria Moria Declaration, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Hallgeir Langeland were out in the localities of Rogaland, arguing whether small-scale power stations were positive or negative. Yeah, it's no wonder you don't get a system of green certificates when hydropower is so central to that system. And then finally: former Energy Policy Spokesman in the Center Party goes out and takes a strong settlement with the tax rules for small-scale power plants. While this government is to have a support scheme for small hydropower plants, it thus has a tax rate twice the level of the aid scheme. That's the kind of immortality we want by actually making decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1121	Mr. Brende has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1124	When I read the Daily yesterday, over two pages, that Haga bets on the sea, Haga warns a great deal of bet to make Norway the best at gigantic windmills at sea, I had not dreamed that the government parties could today find voting for a proposal that the Left has promoted, and to which the opposition has agreed, that a national strategy for the development of hydropower production should be drawn up. Why do you vote against it when the Council of State has been in favour of the gigantic effort this year? Is it because one has not intended to follow up and is therefore afraid that a decision by a magnification can be constitutionally binding, which Ketil Solvik-Olsen was also involved? We have actually mixed experience with this government when we are persuaded in this room not to make suggestions, the government will bring it. We were promised an energy plan for Middle Norway. We weren't allowed to vote on what they said it would come. Now we've been waiting for two years. We were promised that the Government would inform us of an industrial power regime that they themselves have promised. We haven't seen anything about it. We were promised that there would be no higher electricity prices in central Norway than in the rest of the country. [[President clubs]] This summer it's been
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1131	Gunnar Kvassheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1134	I will not meet the request to withdraw this proposal. On the contrary, I note that this is a poor record for further cooperation on energy and climate issues, and I also think this is a bad expression of the Government's expressed desire to meet the opposition and be positive about building good solutions in Stortinget. The Council of State has also produced it as amazing that there can be such a crass debate in an area where everyone says they agree. It is precisely what is our main point, that in renewable energy production for many years there has been an agreement that one must do something, not least this has been expressed in the last two years, but one has not come to the action that triggers projects. We want to do something about this by getting a more committed commitment in this area and it could be based on a national strategy, which the Council of State has said no to put forward. Then I would like to repeat to the Council of State that in the case of the Karmøy test facility, I did not want her to respond to this with aid amounts, but I wanted to know if she considered it an important part of the infrastructure that needs to be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1143	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 256]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1163	In the autumn of 2004, Stortinget adopted a new section 100 on freedom of expression in the Constitution. The paragraph had remained unchanged since 1814, so it was high time for a change. Developments in the media field have of course been enormous in the period. Technological developments and other developments have provided the media with a breakthrough and a social role that the owners could not have imagined. We're talking media power. So what's media power? A precise response requires knowledge of the functioning and development of the complex media market. Here, as politicians, we have become far too often indebted. If we limit ourselves to the television market, the media power can roughly be divided into the ability to influence editorial content and the ability to determine which television channels are broadcast. Telenor’s strong position both in infrastructure and after each content market provides Telenor with the means to potentially abuse its position. As the dominant player in the Norwegian television market, the company has committed itself both horizontally and vertically: horizontally through its dominant ownership of all three main distribution platforms, the ground-based broadcasting network, cable television and satellite television, vertically through its interests in the network, distribution, broadcasting, production, broadcasting rights and end-user equipment. Now Telenor is not alone in engaging both horizontally and vertically in the TV market. Other actors like Viasat, NRK and TV 2 do the same thing. But what contributes strongly to complicate this is not least its scope. Telenor has been given the opportunity to develop into far the largest and most dominant actor in broadcasting services in Norway and the Nordic region. Telenor Broadcast is both network owners, cable owners and satellite owners, distribution of television signals, partners in producer and broadcasting companies and local television stations and owner of broadcasting rights. Thus, Telenor has a market share of up to 75 pst. in the distribution of television content in Norway and a market share of the total television market of 31 pst, according to a report prepared by Norsk Telecom AS in January 2007. In addition, Telenor has, among other things: an indirect holding in TV 2 of more than 22 pst. Per. today, Telenor does not have a dedicated broadcasting or distribution company that broadcasts television content above the ground. On the other hand, Telenor is a partner in Norway’s Television AS – NTV – and RiksTV together with NRK and TV 2. Telenor and TV 2 also have close links through Telenor's ownership of TV 2, joint ownership of TV 2 Zebra and joint broadcasting rights to Norwegian football from Norway's Football Federation. The framework for the activities of NTV and RiksTV is therefore relevant to the role of Telenor in the television market. The digitisation of the television market and the availability of alternative broadcasting platforms have resulted in network access becoming a less crucial scarcity factor. Rather, access to the content, good programmes and arrangements is becoming the decisive factor in the scarcity of competition between viewers and revenue. Telenor has understood this and has both concluded an exclusive broadcasting agreement with TV 2 and purchased broadcasting rights for important ‘events’ such as football World Cup and football-EM. As well as the fact that Telenor has shown an interest in buying Canal+, it is clear that the company also has clear ambitions to grow on the content market. Of course, from a commercial point of view, it makes sense to buy popular broadcasts to secure subscribers on their own networks and advertising revenue in their own channels. Telenor is able to do this because of its financial strength. The problem is whether this will further strengthen Telenor's dominance in the television market. The ability to conduct connection strategies and lock in customers is increasing. According to Norsk Telecom AS, the telecommunications companies Norkring AS and Canal Digital are the most profitable companies in the television market. There may be signs that Telenor can charge high prices, but may also be a sign of economies of scale, efficiency and competence and a sign that other companies are moving their profits abroad. Telenor is the sole owner of the broadcasting network through the company Norkring AS. In a comment on the negotiations between Norsk Television AS – NTV – and Norkring, the NRK claims that Norkring may charge monopoly prices to NTV. This must be looked at by the Government. It is possible to compare price levels between countries. It will reduce the possibility for Telenor to charge abnormally high prices. The debate on RiksTV's channel selection shows that a dominant player will not necessarily choose a channel package that is most attractive to viewers, but perhaps also the one that most underpins the operator's own interests – opening up its own channels, etc. Now it can be argued that Telenor would primarily want the most subscribers to its networks and therefore channel packets that are as attractive as possible to subscribers. On the other hand, Telenor’s vertical integration, the connection between Telenor and TV 2 and Telenor’s dominance on all three platforms will affect Telenor’s content assessments. Telenor's company Canal Digital has had the exclusive right to broadcast TV 2 over the satellite until October 2007. The time has expired, but TV 2 has let the transmissions go until further notice. If Telenor had the exclusive right to broadcast TV 2 over the satellite in time after the signals in the analogue ground net have been switched off, Telenor’s dominance would increase dramatically. Until now, many of the customers of the competing satellite TV company Viasat have been able to retrieve signals from this ground network, but this possibility will disappear. TV 2 is a typical must-ha channel that I'm pretty sure will be present in the ground-tight even in the future. At the same time, it is difficult to see how the current market rights base can serve customers and enhance media diversity. If this is allowed to continue, it leaves the impression that everything is left to the free game of the forces in a market where the authorities have abdicated. The debate on television content has an even more serious aspect than good or bad programming packages. Of course, when the commercial network owners, distributors, producers and rightholders are the same company, fear of the media's role as free and independent arises. There is also reason to fear that Telenor’s dominance could reduce the diversity of competition and customer choice. It could create adverse effects in terms of higher prices, lower service provision, reduced technological development and socio-economic adverse use of infrastructure and other resources. Taking into account media diversity and the diversity of premiscuousness in society, we are well served to ensure that Telenor's interests are fully elucidated. We are aware that the Competition Authority and ESA have expressed scepticism as to whether competition law is sufficient to regulate Telenor’s activities in the ground network. Of course, it should not be possible to give the impression that a large and dominant actor such as Telenor is given the opportunity to develop in a zone of freedom between the various inspections. An increasingly complex television market should, in any case, provide for a corresponding strengthening of the current surveillance to accompany market operators. On this basis, I would like to ask the Council of State to comment, possibly to answer, the following four questions: Firstly, is it the opinion of the Council of State that the supervision in question today has the necessary tools, i.e. that current legislation is sufficient to regulate the activities of Telenor and other operators in the television market? Secondly, if we are discussing stronger regulation, it would not also be natural to raise the question of whether we should also consider the separation of ownership and the operation of infrastructure in own business companies, as has already been done in other sectors, such as transport, energy, etc. ? Thirdly, I would like to raise the question of whether it is not time now to legislate a restriction on ownership in the TV market similar to the one we have introduced in the newspaper market. It's probably going to be even more complicated here, but shouldn't this be investigated now? Fourthly, there is a challenge to Telenor's strategy of offering customers parcel-wise channel offers, which will ensure the company's optimal profit, but which is at the expense of customers' freedom of choice, i.e. freedom to choose the channels they want or combinations they compose themselves. This should be made possible and could help to strengthen media pluralism. Will the Council of State look at this possibility? By doing so, I believe that I have here suggested at least four important actions that should be quickly assessed to prevent market power in the Norwegian television market from becoming too large.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1216	Let me first thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. It's not often I'm so happy to get a theme up to a broad debate that I'm for this as the interpellant now addresses. I would like to point out that the broadcast message that the government presented in our report deals with this topic and addresses the same issues that the interpellant addresses. In addition, last year we had a discussion on the ownership law of newspapers and other media, including broadcasting, on the content page. There we found a solution to which the interpellant's party joined, so I'm glad that this is a relatively broad majority because we need a regulation of ownership just to ensure that the interpellant mentions freedom of expression, a diversity of information channels and a good competition in the media sector. I am very concerned to ensure the condition of freedom of expression and a media diversity that provides real opportunities for expression. Concentration of ownership in the mass media could pose a risk of channelling of opinions. Therefore, it is highly legitimate to discuss regulations in accordance with the objective of the Media Ownership Act if the concentration of ownership threatens to weaken freedom of expression, real expression or a comprehensive media offer. When we see Telenor's many roles in the media market, there are good reasons to look critically at Telenor's power of ownership. In particular, in the market for the provision of television, the company has a central role through the positions referred to in the inter-pellant. In addition, of course, the company is vertically integrated, including: through its indirect ownership of TV 2. So the company doesn't just care about distributing the content of others. Telenors also have significant interests in central content producers. In the broadcast message, we have a separate description of Telenor's many positions in the media field. At the same time, we have to include the side of the matter that it is not always negative that the concentration of ownership in media businesses is negative. Concentration can in some cases provide economies of scale and better use of technology and skills, which in turn can provide better and more reasonable services to the public. In this way, ownership constraints must be balanced against operators’ operating spaces, so that there is good competition, but at the same time sufficient space for individual actors to operate both economically and in good quality. Consequently, the use of regulatory instruments must be weighed against the potential disadvantages of such regulation. The starting point for an assessment of Telenor’s ownership must be the actual conduct of the company in the light of current legislation and whether that legislation has been up-to-date and is capable of fulfilling its objective. We have several legislations that can be applied in the media and that are designed to prevent abuse of a dominant position or negative consequences of ownership. In addition to the general rules of the Competition and Economy Act, ownership is regulated in the media sector under the Media Ownership Act. While the purpose of the Media Ownership Act is to ensure freedom of expression and information, the aim of the Competition Act and the Econom Act is primarily to ensure the efficient use of society’s resources as well as good, reasonable and forward-looking services for users. The fact that the laws have different purposes could lead to a purchase that the Competition Authority does not intervene against, being stopped by the Media Authority, or vice versa. I am pleased that the inter-pellant party also agreed with the Government that we need both instruments in the regulation of the media sector. Regulation of unfair commercial practices and abuse of a dominant position are matters regulated by both the Competition Act and the Econom Act. In addition, there are a number of rules provided for in these laws as well as in the Broadcasting Act which could further limit the possibilities of any port guard in a network to discriminate or shut out operators. The Competition Act prohibits anti-competitive cooperation and prohibits the abuse of dominant positions. These provisions are enforced by the Competition Authority. Penalties from the Competition Authority in the event of infringements of these prohibitions may, as a general rule, be reviewed only by the courts. To the question from the interpellant of the existence of sufficient tools for supervision, I would at least say that the Competition Authority has the tools to ensure that the rules of the Competition Act are complied with. The law on electronic communications, the Eco-communication Act, allows postal and telecommunications regulators to impose specific obligations on operators with significant market power in a number of so-called relevant markets, including the market for broadcasting transmission services. In the broadcasting market, the Post and Telecommunications Authority has not found that any of the actors have a significant market position. Media ownership law applies «undertakings engaged in the daily press, television, radio or electronic media, and undertakings which exercise ownership over such undertakings». The Act empowers the Media Authority to stop or impose conditions on the acquisition of holdings in undertakings engaged in day-to-day press, television or radio if the transferee, alone or jointly with others, holds or acquires a significant holding in the national or regional media market, contrary to the objective of Section 1 of the Act. Media surveillance may also suspend or impose conditions for cooperation agreements which give a party to the agreement the same or equivalent influence over the editorial product as an acquisition. Through all these laws, the size has facilitated the delegation of supervisory functions to the respective supervisory authorities, the Competition Authority, the Post and Telecommunications Authority and the Media Authority. The supervisory authorities shall supervise the compliance of Telenor and other undertakings with the legislation to ensure that undertakings do not abuse market power or that no market power is established that is contrary to the objectives of the respective laws. It is a good arrangement that the political authorities of the State Councils do not intervene directly against the media's ownership situation. The media are a state power beyond the legislative, the executive and the judicial power, and so we need a good distance from the regulators in regulation, and we do that through these objective rules and supervisory judgements. There's no doubt, as I've been in the past, that Telenor has significant interests in a converging media sector. However, if something is to be done, there must be clear indications that the ownership positions of the company have a negative impact on the media diversity. There's every reason to keep an eye on that. I am not prepared here and now to make a clear conclusion that the company has abused its market position to the detriment of the media diversity, but at least that does not mean any fresh communication from my side at all. In my opinion, it is necessary to monitor continuously the development of market structures. I also see a need, as we say in the Broadcasting Communication, for a closer look at the different aspects of the Media Ownership Act, also the question of vertical integration. We know from other countries that there are rules where a content provider is not a distributor. Question No No by the inter-pellant 2 to have a separation of infrastructure is seen as a relevant question. You could imagine that you went down to the kiosk and would buy VG, and they say that it costs only NOK 8 but at the same time you have to buy the Tagens Nueringsliv, Dagbladet, address paper, Bergen's Official Journal and Stavanger Aftenblad in a package. I think consumers would be quite quickly raised over such a message. That's the way it is in the digital satellite world. We'll take a closer look at the Media Ownership Act, if the Storting joins it. If we get in touch with what we say in the broadcasting message, we'll put down a sample with a mission to look into the media ownership law, with particular emphasis on regulating vertical integration and electronic media. In the light of the aims of the law, the selection will include: need to identify the electronic media and the stages of the vertical value chain in which regulation may be appropriate and what forms of regulation would then be involved. I would also like to mention that during 2007 we are submitting a proposal to the Stortinget to legislate the Editorial plaque. It is a measure that will further ensure the position of editors vis-à-vis the owners. Finally, I would like to say the following: The most crucial thing in this case will be how Telenor uses his position, among other things. as the owner of RiksTV and as the owner of satellite distribution, and how to exercise the considerable power you have, with all these ownership positions you have. We know that not all, even partially state-owned companies, are unusually responsive to political signals. I also think the state should be a professional owner, and when companies go all the way across what the owner gives as signals, it must have clear consequences for the companies. Without considering the specific content of the dispute relating to the approval of an agreement on the distribution of TV 2 channels within RiksTV, I would like to stress the fact that Telenor has been involved in applying for a concession to operate the ground net, and I assume that all the owners of the company are loyally following their obligations, so that this major technology change is carried out in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1259	I thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good response, which shows that there is not very much political disagreement – at least not between the inter-pellant and the Council of State – about the challenges we face. I may have missed even a little bit more concrete and complementary answers to the concrete challenges, with the exception of a couple. I am pleased to note that the Council of State will continue to work on these challenges, these questions that I asked. I can probably add a question as to whether it should not also come up with its own big message about Telenor, as Telenor now appears. I would like the Council of State to comment on that. My intention has been to point out how market developments in this area have been ahead of politicians. Looking back, we illustrate developments in Norway how the commercialisation or privatisation of public infrastructure and public services can provide the basis for the collection of monopoly interest rates. Both the fixed telephone network and the NRK network for radio and television broadcasting were taken over by Telenor from the old Telewerk in its time. There are important reasons for Telenor's commercial success. In this context, it must also be important for the authorities to monitor the activities of Telenor in order to detect any abuse of market power. I am pleased that the Council of State has agreed to this. Then we'll look at the follow-up. Then we have Modern Times Group, MTG, a major international player who uses all legal means to increase its own growth and earnings, just like Telenor. The difference is that Telenor dominates all television distribution platforms in Norway, with the exception of fibre networks and broadband, where appropriate. The starting point is not that it is wrong for Telenor to make professional use of its ability to increase its own growth and earnings, in no way. The starting point is that it is wrong for the authorities not to follow up their role of monitoring and controlling Telenor as the fully dominant player in the Norwegian television market. This is a complex market, not least because of rapid technological developments — digitisation, the development of new distribution platforms and new services. It is therefore essential that the Storting and the Government take the time to engage in and assess developments in the television market. It is high time that the Government has now made a big message and will bring yet another law to strengthen freedom of expression in Norway. I also hope that through the work to be done, we can follow up on the multifaceted role of Telenor in the telecommunications market, with a view to designing proposals for a law that provides supervision a better tool, while at the same time contributing not to a weakening of diversity and freedom of expression, but rather to the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1277	It's quite right, as the interpellant says, it's not just Telenor doing vertical activities in the media sector. And I think we're going to see more of that. In particular, we want to see more of distributors entering and purchasing different content packages, not necessarily just TV channels, but packages of a special nature – sports rights, major events – which are then included in different payment offers. Let me also mention that we are working on the possibilities offered by the EU Directive to list events to be accessible to the public. When it comes to the questions that the interpellant asks, I think I've answered most of them. In my view, supervision has sufficient tools. The question is whether the law under which they operate is sufficient. That's our job to look at. And once again, a regulation of vertical ownership is a question that we want to clarify, and evaluate. The last question from the interpellant is whether to look at the possibility of buying TV channels individually. Of course, it would be very beneficial for the consumer to be able to choose freely and set up freely. Of course, there is also a price question. One should not ignore the fact that the price is being pressed when the distributor buys packages from the TV companies. At the same time, it is not entirely the case that all consumers would want the packages offered, some might want single channels. The new technology provides absolute room for that kind of choice in a simple technological way, and our aim must be to make the choices of single operators and single consumers the best possible. We're going to follow up on this after the broadcast message, but I don't think it's appropriate with a separate broadcast message about Telenor. In that case, there must be another Council of State table. It's not for me. I believe that the legislation, measures and regulations we have, in the media field as in other fields, must be objective and general and apply to all. Of course, we know from all sectors that there are single actors who are becoming particularly dominant, but starting to have big business messages and laws that apply to a single actor, I do not think that is the way the authorities are going to work. Of course, more stringent regulation will be tough on those who have the most dominant position – as it may be called lex Telenor if there are changes – but there must be objective, general criteria, so that there is not one company that is dealt with in a notification or in a regulation. Once again, I must stress that it will be the way in which the largest and most dominant actors – Telenor in particular – are acting in the future, which will be very crucial for the assessments being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1290	The media market is changing rapidly. In a few years, we have seen a revolution in both distribution of different media, the fusion of what we previously perceive as different parts of media everyday life, a much larger range of services to choose from for consumers, and perhaps also some form of democratization, in the sense that it is easier and easier to express oneself on different media platforms. When digital earthsets are gradually made available throughout the country, this will be reinforced further. In the interpellation, the representative Lånken is particularly busy with Telenor's position in the media market and the danger he sees of abuse of media power. I agree with Lånke that we should avoid abuse of media power, and that we need promises and regulations that prevent it. But I don't share Lännk's approach angle that this is just about Telenor's position in the market. First of all, I think we should limit ourselves to discussing the part of Telenor that has to do with the media. Secondly, I regard Telenor as primarily a distributor, although they also have significant ownership interests on the content page. When discussing media power, one must therefore discuss this principle on the basis of objective criteria, not according to an actor's position in particular. For me, media power is about two aspects: the ability to influence or determine the editorial content and the ability to determine which television channels are to be broadcast. Compared to a great many other European countries, I believe that we in Norway are well placed, in the sense that we have real and strong competition for the distribution of television on different platforms. That's what I mean. As I see it, there is strong – perhaps even stronger – competition within all the platforms for television distribution with the exception of the digital ground network, where there is NRK, TV 2 and Telenor who are jointly owners, and the only ones who would take on the job of building up the network. Within cable, satellite and broadband television there is strong competition on all platforms. It's important because as consumers, we can't choose freely between different platforms. Cable selection is not possible in many places, it is not possible to watch broadband television in other places. The fact that there is competition within all these platforms, I think, is therefore a good thing. When it comes to Telenor's position within the various platforms, I argued that the competition laws and the Competition Authority were dealing with Telenor in the same way as all other operators and that they had the same conditions. Several of the issues raised by Mr Lånke’s representative in his interview are also dealt with by ESA, following complaints against Mr Telenor from the MTG/Viasat. As far as I can see, ESA's conclusion is that Telenor has no dominant position when it comes to distribution in the broadcasting market based on the legislation we have today. Similar assessments from different supervisory authorities have also concluded. In the General Broadcasting Communication, the Government states that a review of the Media Ownership Act is necessary, inter alia. because today it does not regulate electronic media, such as web newspapers and televisions, and it does not regulate vertical integration. It's necessary. Not least, the Internet is today the most important source of news for many groups, and it will become more important and important in the years ahead. There are now several actors, not just Telenor, who have ownership interests in several stages of digital broadcasting. Telenor's strong competitor in satellite distribution, MTG/Viasat, is one of these. If we were to find ourselves in a situation where an actor makes use of its gatekeeper function to favor own content, we could experience a delimitation in relation to what is the purpose of the Media Ownership Act, the Competition Act or the Ecoms Act. That is why it makes sense for the Ministry and the Council of State now to have a review of the Media Ownership Act to regulate vertical integration in a better way than is currently possible. I think it's a wise strategy to prevent any possible increase in integration leading to weak competition or other competitive issues. It's a problem if a high degree of vertical integration works for us as consumers in such a way that we can risk reducing our freedom of choice, eliminating the shortage. As TV viewers, we should be able to assume that what we see, on the channels we have, should be as objectively produced and disseminated as possible, so that we should not be forced to check back in the content and distribution chain when we choose what we want to watch on television, and who should provide us with the service. Therefore, a stronger regulation than we have today may be necessary to prevent strong vertical integration. Now this will apply to all operators in the market. Splitting up Telenor, as I feel that the representative Lånke has been called for, I don't think I'm a good strategy. I think we have a lot to do with having a Norwegian-owned media actor, with the base and the main business in Norway. It is likely to weaken competition within the various distribution platforms, may weaken technological developments in the industry, and it may weaken what is currently a strong Norwegian company based in Norway, if it should split up. I also don't think it's a good move to solve the challenges that Mr. Lännk addresses in his interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1318	Here it's said a lot well and a lot you can join. I just want to link some comments to some areas that the Right and I think myself are central. The starting point is that we've seen in the last few months that the giant Telenor has come forward a little like – I think many will experience it as – an elephant in a glass magazine. We see a struggle between many actors to position themselves for the future, depending on where the flow of money is going, where the revenue is to be – short and well whether you should profit from being a mediator, whether you should serve as a content provider, or whether you should perhaps earn even more on being both. It's like when someone comes from the neighboring community and starts cutting in the general public, there's always going to be trouble. We've seen that over the past few weeks. It's not just a beautiful picture we've seen. Large actors in both sectors are talking to each other, and you're very much freed from what we often experience as what I would call a common understanding of competitive conditions. As politicians, we must first of all bear in mind that we must have a good room for freedom of expression, a good room for public debate. We need to ensure that the citizens of our country have access to information and to being an actor in this public conversation. Then we are dependent on several things as evolution has now been. We rely both on good distribution platforms, and we rely on good content providers. We're dependent on the full range of competition. And I think that those who have hoped that dividing Telenor is kind of seductive, seductive, without putting this into a larger context, have not provided the answer to what we're facing. I am pleased with the clarification of the Council of States, that we are talking about objective and general instruments, which we must now look for, possibly strengthening those we have. It was supposed to be missing, too! Should the state use its ownership over a company like Telenor to start making some special regulations for that company, I think the state would be subject to considerable criticism and mistrust as a public owner. I look forward to the matter promised by the Government on vertical integration. There you have to make sure that it will be liberal and profitable also in being an intermediary by building platforms. We have expectations that private actors might spend billions building networks, building satellites – building the ground for that matter. Then it must also be possible to get back their savings and make sure that there must be room for developing business ideas around it. It shall not be put under a chair that it is a significant challenge to combine it with providing access to all content providers at the lowest possible price. For what is closest to our heart, perhaps, is that we want as many content providers as possible, mostly a larger range of small players, to have the opportunity to get to everyone, and so that we use the new technological gains we have, in innovation, to strengthen freedom of expression, to strengthen the creative exchange of information. I think there's every reason to think about how the supervision works between them. Maybe there's the regulatory background that's most important. There is also reason to note that EU legislation may give a slightly different lead than that later to be a practice in our country. In any case, it is clear that meat weights do not apply in the same way in the EU as in our country. There's every reason to go into the law. But to those who are now going to create an extended ownership law in the department, I would say that I think it can be a considerable and quite demanding exercise. I think you'd better take a look at how competition works. But that is: the objective is a good climate for innovation and development, both technologically and on the content side. That's what will give the best results for the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1341	First, I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising a very important topic. The question of Telenor's media market power in Norway is not just timely, it is overtime that we in this house are now taking this into account. It is a parochial situation when one after the other today discusses how we can regulate ourselves out of an unpleasant situation associated with a company in which we own most of the shares. We've got a privatized listed company that owns significant amounts of infrastructure. Today, Telenor is often described – and rightly so – as a monster in the form of a privatised listed company that has benefited only for the benefit of the eye. It is a company that has its own stock exchange price and quarterly results as its objective, rather than social development. Some of us ask if a privatisation of Telenor was particularly smart. Exchange listing of the giant Telenor was a political decision, and most parties – including interpellant Loan Party – supported such privatisation. Telenor is a company that, through its knowledge and technology, has considerable power. I'm not against power. However, with the listing and privatisation of Telenor, power has been transferred from public to private spaces. We have, through the privatisation of Telenor, weakened ownership. No other old telemonopolist in Europe has been allowed to develop a similar dominant position in its local television markets that Telenor has been allowed to do at home. Telenors are absolutely everywhere in the distribution of televisions, in all from the ground net, cable TV, satellite, broadband TV and to mobile phones, and as a significant content provider in addition. In SV we thought that the ground net should be part of a public state infrastructure. The development of NTV and RiksTV after Telenor was accidentally released into ownership and the driver’s seat has shown that SV got it right. The arguments of a state infrastructure company have not been weakened by what we have seen after it was established. Telenor has been allowed to build a TV-industrial complex in Norway in the last few years, which would be totally unimaginable in other industries. Telenor is in a special position among these actors because of its role as a distributor on all platforms and as a significant player in the content and rights market. In SV, we have seen in principle that distributors and content providers should be in different companies. In yesterday's Dagbladet, Lånke draws a parallel to the power market, where one actor owns the network, while others take care of the content. It is precisely the model that SV has proposed repeatedly in Stortinget during the previous period, and that Lånke has repeatedly voted against and argued against. Several commentators have written that Telenor is a company that today is interest-raters and lives on previous investments. This applies primarily to two things: infrastructure and the development of GSM technology. The money that the company has today comes from investments made in the 1980s and 1990s. It has therefore been twofold provocative to see the high management salaries and options in this company, while reports have been made that the research for the future of the company has gradually fallen. Interpellant asks for action to prevent future abuse of market power. The answers are primarily along the track that the Government has already suggested. Firstly, we need to have a thorough review of Telenor's role and situation more generally and of the company's growing media engagement in particular. Secondly, we need to modernise the old ownership legislation. The government announced through the message ‘Circking in a Digital Future’, which we got to Stortinget just before the summer, that it is just going to look at the Media Ownership Act again. The question is how we can extend the law not only to printed media, but also to regulate vertical integration and electronic media, including web newspapers and televisions. Finally, we believe that more action should be taken: Firstly, a limited Telenor's power of ownership through limitations of ownership, such as the Government, must be exercised. has the occasion, through a strict media policy and as the Government has already partly discussed in the public broadcasting message, in the form of assessments made around vertical ownership. Secondly, a clear regulatory regime must be established as to what the company can and cannot allow. Thirdly, a public ownership must be used to govern the company. In such a strategy, an owner strategy must go hand in hand with nationalising and separating Telenor's infrastructure. I record that the government does not have such plans today, so we may have to postpone this until the next period. I still believe that the question of a new ownership solution must be included in this debate, and I will end as I started: it is a parochial situation when we discuss how we can regulate ourselves out of an unpleasant situation in a company where we have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1377	The interpellant addresses a very important theme, which deals with media power, market power and monopolies. But before I go into it, I want to stress that Telenor has had a fantastic positive development internationally that imposes great respect – they have acquired over a hundred million customers. Here the company has done a very good job, and I want to say that maybe it is because the company has now become very large internationally and in Norway, that we are now getting this debate. However, today we are not going to discuss the ownership role of the state in relation to Telenor. It's the state's role as regulator and controller we're going to discuss, and we're going to take care of the community's and the public's interests in relation to what kind of society we want. Democracy is important, democracy can be challenged by market power. We can only look at Italy and Berlusconi to find unfortunate examples of this. Internationally, we see the same kind of debate that we now have here today. The EU has asked all the least developed WTO countries to liberalise their telecommunications services. The fight for market control is in full swing. Communication is a good store and a big policy. The merger between America Online, AOL, and Time Warner in 2000 included share values of the order of $350 billion. The group owns Internet service providers, record companies, TV stations such as CNN, cable TV networks, film studios, publishers etc. Concentration of ownership in the mass media could pose a risk of channelling of opinions. In our opinion, it is initially legitimate to regulate in accordance with the purpose of the Mediation Act when the concentration of ownership threatens to weaken freedom of expression, real expression or a comprehensive media offer. The use of regulatory instruments should be carefully weighed against the potential disadvantages of such regulation. This form of leading commodity regulation, represented by the Media Ownership Act, should therefore be used with caution. At the same time, the social considerations underlying this law are so important that we cannot afford to take it lightly. The Competition Act prohibits anti-competitive cooperation and prohibits abuse of dominant positions. These provisions are enforced by the Competition Authority. Like the Council of State, I am not prepared to claim that there are today clear indications that Telenor has abused its market position to the detriment of media pluralism. Nevertheless, it is necessary to monitor continuously the development of market structures, in addition to implementing, as pointed out by the Council of State here, an examination of the principal aspects and the practical consequences of market power. After such an investigation, one will then assess the need for legislative changes or other instruments. With regard to interpellant questions, I would like to stress that on our part we also support the importance of clarifying through public consultation whether obligations should be imposed on cable operators, satellite operators and others to provide television channels individually. I look forward to such a review. Finally, I would like to stress that the fundamental review of the issue of separation of operations and infrastructure in own companies should be considered in order to avoid excessive market power on a single basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1398	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this important debate. The left has long been concerned with the role and position of Telenor in the new market. This was also the subject of our national government meeting a month ago when we adopted an opinion on a possible separation of Telenor. Telenor's position is, as has been pointed out by previous speakers, diverse and varied. In this way, it is illustrative that Telenor’s overall activity affects almost all the Scientific Committees on the Stortinget without perhaps being sufficiently aware of this. Telenor has a strong position both in the infrastructure and in the television content market, with which the interpellant is engaged. At the same time, the market is changing – and Telenor is changing. That makes the map we had yesterday, maybe not the same as what we see tomorrow. The left is concerned about the increasing position of Telenor in several areas and the unbridled situation that has arisen. In the strictest sense, Telenor may control all stages of a value chain ending with the consumer. With the rapid technological development we are experiencing, it is not only a media policy revolution that is involved – it is also a technology policy revolution, where vertical integration is one of the key words. In the view of the Left, this revolution calls for strong political awareness and vigilance because it affects so many key areas of our society – television services, broadband development, content on the network, etc. We see much of the same discussion in Sweden, where the debate about the former monopolist TeliaSonera's position goes high. Let me dwell a little bit on Telenor's role in the broadband market. The debate on Telenor's possible disconnection from the Norwegian Internet eXchange network in spring, the so-called NIX case, illustrated for most of us the marked market position Telenor has in the Norwegian broadband network. The left, together with the Right, organised an open seminar on the challenges associated with this. The seminar highlighted an important issue in the new technological markets, namely ownership structure and balance of power. In the view of the Left, it is unfortunate that one actor is both a dominant provider of content services and a dominant infrastructure provider. Such a dominant position may result in — as many have experienced — the possibility for the operator to distort network traffic from competing content providers to its own services, or to companies able to pay for priority bandwidth. In the worst case, such a situation could lead to free and independent Internet content being managed by the largest and dominant actors in infrastructure and content. These developments can lead to a fall in network neutrality, which is important both in terms of market diversity and freedom of expression, and it is a frightening idea. Finally, if we look at our neighbouring country Sweden, which I was in the past, the Swedish postal and telecommunications authorities have recently proposed that TeliaSonera's access network, i.e. TeliaSonera's own cables and connecting material between their own telecommunications equipment and private telecommunications networks, be separated into a company by a so-called functional separation. The reason is that such a distinction will provide better competition and thus better internet provision for the population. In Sweden, the competitors of TeliaSonera, including Telenor, are very excited about such a proposal. Telenor Sweden is in fact in favour of a «light» implementation of functional separation in its official consultation opinion, which can be read on the Swedish Ministry of Food and Feed’s website. At our government meeting in September, the Left adopted an opinion that the separation of the infrastructure part that is accessible to Telenor is the way to go in Norway as well, and the Left will invite the Government to launch an investigation for such a distinction in Norway. Given Telenor's views on this issue in Sweden, I am sure they will agree on this in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1414	I have listened to the various submissions, and I again note that there is a very large consensus on both analysis and, in particular, proposals for action to address the regulation of this market a little further. I noted that the Council of State stressed that the Competition Authority had the tool they needed to supervise, but expressed an uncertainty as to whether the law was sufficient, and that seemed to me to be an interesting statement. Of course, I agree that legislation must be based on objective criteria. That's not what I was trying to say, but I thought you might need a more direct concrete review of the role of Telenor itself, which has become so large that it's almost necessary to follow this company especially in relation to all other actors. But, of course, the law must be based on objective criteria. It is not crucial for me whether we get a separate message about Telenor. I note with satisfaction that there will be a review of the system of vertical integration, because I believe that through that message and with that review we can get up a lot of interesting questions that will allow us to continue working in a process of this. Then I'm a little surprised that a couple of the parties, the Working Party and the Right, are as critical as they are to break up or separate the infrastructure part into a separate business area. I am pleased that the representative Tenden referred to Sweden in that context. Although it's also true, as SV-Representative Lund Bergo says, that the Christian People's Party has previously been critical of this, evolution has gone enormously fast, and things have happened that at least we have to assess it. It's nothing but what I'm asking for. I hope that the Council of State will take this seriously as well. Someone has asked, Has Telenor now gone over from being a community support to becoming an enemy of the people, as the Evening Post commentator today seems to suggest? I think we're about to express ourselves a little more accurately, but yet it's time to ask: who is Telenor serving through the exercise of its market power? Is it the people, the customers and hence Norway, or is the exercise of power only a tool to become even bigger, even richer? It's a question I think Telenor most should also ask himself, and which it would be most in Telenor's own interest to get a political illumination of. In the end, I want to say that I'm a little worried about the new digital backbone that is now about to be launched. I sincerely hope that the struggles and negotiations that are now taking place in this market, of which Telenor is a very important part, do not help to destroy or undermine the opportunities that NTV and RiksTV have for profit in the market, well and note because this is something the Norwegian magnificence has decided to set up. We have great hopes that we will be able here to strengthen both the freedom of expression and the diversity of the television market in the time to come, and that must happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1427	We are very much in agreement with the objectives. I also record that there is quite a broad consensus in the storeroom about having a critical attitude to and a watchful look at the situation in the media sector. After all, it is always liberating to see how united the Christian People's Party is with the government parties in many cases where the disagreement was greater between the previous government and the opposition. That is also a gratifying observation. When I say the tool is in order, it's the sanctioning option for supervision. But the question is whether the laws you regulate and respond to are comprehensive enough, and whether they cover the situations needed to create a media diversity. Here, the question of vertical integration is central, and the Storting gets the opportunity to discuss it both when the broadcasting message is being processed, and also in a follow-up, if the Storting agrees. It's quite right, as the interpellant says, that there was a special situation when Telenor brought the infrastructure almost in the birth gift. It was different from what we did in the railway sector, where the infrastructure is separated in a different way. But we've done this. Of course, it is good to have solid Norwegian companies, which are not least able to gain a significant position internationally, but at the same time it is not good for Norwegian customers to have an individual position for dominance. At this point of intersection, we have to find a good balance. It is fully possible for companies, in addition to dealing with regulation, laws, supervision, sanctions and reactions, to take political signals from this room. Up through the years we've seen that not all companies are very good at it, but I think that if there's something called goodwill in Telenor's accounts, that item could probably be written down a little bit after the round here in the hall. There is a significant irritation in the political environment, a more and more watchful look and even stronger reactions, and that is something that needs to be addressed. There are two key issues ahead where this will be made visible. It's in the process of RiksTV. If there is now a jump in the wheels to enable NTV and RiksTV to do what Stortinget has ordered them to do, namely to develop a digital grounding for all in Norway, it is clear that there will be significant reactions. It is also a question of a satellite distribution agreement, of finding solutions in the case of TV 2, which the interpellant now says is a channel to which most consumers want to have access. Here, therefore, developments will be followed with a watchful eye. But of course, it's finally how you act, which will add the leadership for how they react.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1442	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1448	The increase shall now be added to the case No. One, two, three.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1485	During the debate, Torbjørn Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a national strategy for the development of wind power generation based on marine mills.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1507	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-23.ana.ud393e1546	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
