ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e35	The President will make suggestions that a seat president of Odelstinget's meeting is elected today – and sees it as agreed. The president wants to make suggestions about Marit Nybakk. – Other suggestions are not included, and Marit Nybakk is elected by consensus as the seat president of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e56	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes and Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes left. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to the main speakers from each group and five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e67	The Financial Committee has examined Ot.prp. No 16 on the new law on real estate and gave the position that we are going to debate here today. The main consideration and purpose of the legislative proposal is the desire for a safer, more orderly and more efficient movement of property. All parties largely agree that the requirements for increased competence in the industry are important and essentially adhere to the Government’s proposal for training and competence requirements. This also means that the industry itself is a right development, and increased demands will be useful for all parties involved in real estate trading. There is also a broad consensus in the Committee on a number of measures providing consumers with better legal protection and improved rights. In some areas, however, the parties distinguish layers in their comments and proposals. I will explain in more detail the Right's positions, which are also to a large extent the views of an overall opposition. The background to this bill is the public investigation NOU 2006:1 on real estate. Already in this investigation, there were a number of dissatisfactions, both in the legislative committee and in the hearing opinions. This should be prudent in relation to the supplementary rules, so that the main consideration of the law, namely the safe, orderly and efficient movement of immovable property, is also maintained during the regulatory design process. An example of a regulatory design that does not comply with the main purpose of the law has already been provided in the regulation on 24-hour acceptance deadlines – a regulation that complicates more than it makes the turnover of dwellings more orderly and efficient. With regard to the purpose of the law, there is no disagreement in the committee on them, nor that both parties should receive unwarranted assistance. However, it must not weaken the fact that it is the contracting entity that engages an intermediary for its sale and that there is between these two parties the sales contract is concluded. It is therefore important that the exercise of discretion in the formulation of regulations does not distort that balance. Such insanity is evident in the extensive regulatory powers indicated by the bill. As far as the scope of the law is concerned, it has been currily that the government parties in the committee have further reduced the aberration of the law relatively dramatically during the committee discussion by their amendment to the first paragraph of Section 7-4. This means that the freedom of contract is significantly reduced in relation to the Government’s proposal. It is therefore the opposition that promotes the Government's original proposal, which maintains to some extent the freedom of contract. The Government Party's proposed amendments will lead to the conclusion that it will not be possible to agree on the advance payment of property dealers in consumer relationships. This is a serious breach of the freedom of contract necessary for the efficient movement of dwellings. This may result in some housing sellers having financial and other problems in being able to enter into contracts for the sale of their housing. There has been great concern on industry teams that by removing the freedom of contract provided for in the first paragraph of Section 7-4, government parties would actually introduce a no cur, no pay solution for property sales, i.e. that the broker is not paid, is not compensated for its expenses, if trade fails. And it's easy to understand that the industry might have perceived it this way. The law, as it now stands and will be passed, has become very unclear in this central area. The positioning parties must be responsible for this. However, in the opinion of the rapporteur, the industry’s opinion is not correct. The brokers will still be able to agree what the contractor can demand if trade fails. This combined with the fact that there is an opportunity to agree a short period of time for the duration of the contract, regardless of the result, means that, in my opinion, full compensation is required when trading is not possible, regardless of the fact that the first paragraph of Section 7-4 is made mandatory. But I stress: there is a great uncertainty in the industry, and I would like to ask that the representatives of the government parties in their posts confirm the understanding of the context of the bill, as it exists, as I have explained. As an alternative, I recommend the proposals No. 1 and 3 from the opposition, which clears any doubt by giving the parties the freedom of agreement. With regard to the organisation of real estate brokerage activities, the Committee agrees on the importance of enhancing competence by having a professional manager in each real estate brokerage undertaking. However, the right considers that the practical justifications of the legislative committee and of the industry on the lack of brokers, especially in smaller places, are an important argument. The transitional rules must therefore be well practicable. It also applies to the requirements of real competence in relation to the transitional rules and not least in relation to the tasks to be carried out by assistants. I notice in particular that it is the Right Party – and not the Center Party in the government position – that must stress that the more pig-grown stripe in terms of property turnover must also be taken into account. All sales of property are not carried out in the Oslo West-Grünerløkka axis. So a little bit about mediation independence. The right opposes the fact that real estate agents are not allowed to organise their business and use other service providers as subcontractors, so that the customer is given a better total offer. We believe it will reduce customer costs, it will increase competition in the industry, and it will contribute to the purpose and purpose of the law that turnover is orderly and efficient. For example, close cooperation between brokers and major banking alliances or the financial group is established to ensure good and full service to customers. It is also reasonable for real estate agents to have recovered those costs and have a reasonable profit. This is a completely accepted business method in almost all industries that nobody questions. However, the right considers that the existence of such cooperation agreements should be disclosed by real estate agents. With regard to the content of the brokerage contract itself, the Right would stress that freedom of contract must be the fundamental starting point for regulating economic agreements between two parties. This must of course also apply to the trading of property. The government itself also states in the proposition that there must be serious consideration for limiting the freedom of contract. However, they do not sufficiently follow up on this in their proposal, and the representatives of the government parties in the Committee further restrict it, which means that the opposition parties have had to repeat the Government's original proposal in order to ensure the freedom of agreement. The right considers that the ordinary Norwegian consumer is well able to conclude economic contracts also in the field of property trading, and that there is no need for such detail as is provided by law and, not least, by the access to extensive regulatory practices to which it is provided. We will therefore go against § 7-2, fifth paragraph, which adds to this practice. The right also considers that it is unnecessary for the trader to write the specified bill after the completion of the contract, when the commission payment has been agreed. No other industry in this country has similar regulation of its activities. Here, too, special rules are introduced and stigmatisation of a special industry incompatible with the purpose of the law. At the hearing, the representative of the Consumer Ombudsman could not provide a reasonable explanation of the benefits to be gained, from the point of view of consumers. We will also be voting against this proposal. The freedom of contract also implies that restrictions on progressive commission contracts should not be prohibited, as the Government states. Consumers themselves will often know the price of their property, and where the price may be uncertain, or the market may not function properly, progressive commissions could be a good solution for the seller to accelerate or stimulate for sale. The majority of the law-enforcement committee was then also in favour of this being allowed. We also oppose this proposal in Section 7-2, first paragraph. Let me conclude by saying that much of what is proposed in the law is useful both for consumers and for the industry and can contribute to the objective of the law. The Committee also agrees in many areas. But some of the proposals go wrong in important areas, such as the freedom of the parties to conclude economic agreements. The real estate industry and real estate agents are a pleasant theme for the daily press in terms of housing prices, brokerage fees and other conditions. What you often forget, and the government and not least the government parties seem to have forgotten, is that housing turnover is going on every day all over the country in very many small places, and there is very little glamour associated with this. It is simply an activity that is necessary for society to function and the wheels to walk around. We can also see from the complaint handling that there are not many complaints. As legislator, it is necessary to have a strictly objective approach to those who will live with and with the law and its results. This is how I think the government has made unnecessary mistakes in this matter. The Government Parties to the Committee have contributed further. I address the proposals that the Right has promoted alone or with others, and allow me once again to recommend in particular our proposal No. 1 and 3, which are the Government's own proposals, and which would provide a more orderly and transparent law for both consumers and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e110	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e115	The minority wants to keep a system of so-called progressive commissions – or aggressive commissions, which I want to call it. This means that the broker earns more in the form of an increasing commission rate at a higher price achieved in relation to the point of impact. In the worst case scenario, this can give the broker very strong incentives to get a low price estimate, to make the most of a sale. There is no doubt that, in any case, it is usually the mechanist who has the greatest competence in the field of housing. I would like to ask the case rapporteur whether such a form of payment is compatible with the fact that the broker should act as an independent intermediary for the buyer and the seller. Does the rapporteur see that this can create speculations about strong self-interest in the fact that the price is going to be the highest possible over the price assessment that is being set? What should be the focus of the mecler? Is it going to be him, or is it going to be the buyer/seller? Isn't it enough that there's already a flat percentage scheme for commission sales?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e122	When I hear the questioner's input to this question, where you call the commission aggressive, where you first start talking about the revenues of the brokers, etc., I sometimes wonder if we are at the heart of some of the proposals that exist from the positioning parties in this matter. Yes, the broker shall be an independent intermediary. However, as I said in my post, we must not have legal or regulatory rules that make it impossible for the broker to comply primarily with his agreement – an agreement with the seller, an agreement between two parties. The buyer is not part of this. Progressive commissions can very often be an advantage to the seller in places where it may be difficult to sell. A small amount of difficult tradable objects can thus be sold more easily. It's actually a part that needs this approach, if you've tried a lot different.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e129	I have to admit that I find no logic in the representative fleet's answer to the previous question. But I thought I would go deep into what is the very core of what I perceive is the Right talking about here, namely an orderly and efficient housing market. Then I think that if I were to go deep into the representative's side of the line, it would be logical to look at brokering services as a transaction cost in the real estate sales. The whole point is that with the measures the government side and the government parties are now implementing here, we're going to get more transparency around price formation, precisely by the fact that the brokers have to show what they're doing, and what work they're doing. We want to mitigate price developments by tightening the rules for progressive progression. At all, we will reduce transaction costs in the housing market, and thus get more efficient housing sales. Is it not true that what they are now proposing is contrary to the Right Policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e138	No, it's not at all. It's exactly the points we've gone against that will make the turnover difficult. I think we have to have the contractual freedom that it was provided for by the Government, precisely in order for the parties to have this effectively arranged. The positioning parties have restricted this, not least in what I took up in my main post, that there should be no prepayment allowed. We're not opposed to that. However, when further reference is made to an uncertainty as to whether or not to pay for projects that are not covered, i.e. sales that are not carried out, the Committee has done a bad job – if this is not clarified – which means that there is no orderly and effective turnover at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e143	The minority and the case rapporteur have paid considerable attention to the 24 hour time of acceptance of housing services, in order to illustrate examples of regulations that complicate the movement of dwellings. I want to ask the case rapporteur: what has the minority done to cool down the bidding process in a start-up phase? Up to several minority parties have been in government and thus had ample opportunity to address this issue. I have not been able to capture the fact that the previous government has made great efforts to pursue active climate policies in a heated housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e148	I am not sure whether so much active climate policy is needed in this market. I think that's how, as I said in my main post, parts of the market -- relatively small parts, those who are here in the city -- may be exposed to a certain amount of climate turmoil. But besides that, I do not think that the 24-hour rule has had any particular impact in the country, and so far not here in the city either. My point of taking this example is just to show how wrong it can be when we give extensive regulatory powers in a law. Suddenly, the Government responds to newspaper headlines about a market that is often the subject of this. Then there are regulatory changes that neither sellers, buyers, nor anyone at all has earned.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e156	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e159	The attitude of the Financial Committee on Property Law, which we are dealing with today, is important both from a consumer perspective and for the industry as such. Important new traffic rules in the field of real estate will be put in place. In advance, there has been a very thorough process in this work over a long time before the proposition was sent to Stortinget. After the proposition came from the Government, there have been many written recordings and an oral hearing. In my view, the Government has made a necessary tightening up, and not least cleaning up, in relation to existing legislation. The government has in a balanced way the power to have consumer focus, i.e. focus on the interests of buyers and sellers. It must be a requirement that both parties are confident that they will receive good advice and not least unwarranted assistance from the real estate operators. In this sector — as in several other sectors — there are unfortunately negative examples in which unprofessionals contribute to getting the serious in the real estate industry a bad reputation. Like many other big business representatives both inside and outside the finance committee, I have received many enquiries from people who have had less positive experiences with the purchase and sale of housing. It is important that we have balanced educational and competence requirements, while at the same time ensuring that we have a comprehensive regulatory framework that provides seriousness and cleanliness. I want to use this platform to establish that most real estate agents are serious and have good customer focus. It must therefore be in the interest of everyone that unprofessionals operating in the industry should be eliminated. The bad examples, which are not least concentrated in the media, cause the industry to be in trouble, and this leads to uncertainty for the purchasers and sellers concerned as to whether everything has gone right. The objective of a new law on real estate must be multi-participating. The sellers and current buyers – such as consumers – must feel secure that they receive unhindered assistance. The serious part of the industry must feel that driving rules are being established which also give them a clearer and better platform to assist the customer in a proper and good way. As far as I can see, I feel that in most of the main issues, the industry and those who are to take care of consumer interests have a parallel view of what needs to be taken into account in the design of new legislation. Then there is no reason to hide that, as the case-rapporteur explained, there is a disagreement about individual questions. It should just be missing, all the time there are different considerations to balance up with each other. This is the concern of the industry and their wishes – they will naturally have the greatest possible freedom – and of consumers, who will have certainty that they will get what they pay for. As if this is not enough, educational and competence requirements may be able to increase the price of real estate services in isolation in some contexts, but in relation to the totality, good solutions have been found that benefit users. We should remember that the purchase and sale of the dwelling is not exactly a daily trade in the store on the corner, for most of us. We do it at best a couple of times or less in the course of life. In the case of the majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, we are pleased with the suggestions of the Government. It has made an important and forward-looking improvement in existing legislation. In one area, the majority would like to strengthen the Government's legislative proposals, and this is an absolute ban on advance payments. The government, as you know, says that there should be a general ban on advance payments, and we fully support that. In addition, the Government proposes that an exemption may be granted on an agreed basis. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, want to go a little further, for the sake of consumers, by imposing an absolute prohibition on advance payments. This was known as a minority proposal in the Property Law Committee. In particular, the Consumer Council sees this as a good solution to ensure the effective exercise of the right of detention. It has been recorded – also mentioned by the case-rapporteur in his introduction – that § 7-4, first paragraph, with the wording of the majority, does not cover the fact that the contractor’s claim for remuneration is due to be paid when trade has been settled, among others. it does not cover the question of what the grantor is entitled to do if trade does not become a reality. In the following, I would like to clarify that the first paragraph of Section 7-4 deals with one question, and that is when the broker can claim compensation – that is, the time. This is Section 6-4, first paragraph, No. 4 concerning the contract to regulate the remuneration of the contracting entity, and not least what the contracting entity may require if the trade fails. This interpretation has also been confirmed by the Department, to which we relate. If there is a need for clarification, the administration has a duty of guidance, and I am quite sure that the ministry will take care of it. As regards the minority in the Committee, the rapporteur has explained their views. They have drawn in a slightly different direction in many ways than the majority in very many areas. On the part of the majority, we chose a strong consumer focus as it stood between the choice of which interests should be strongest. We are actually proud of that. At the same time, I must add that we have been concerned that the industry as such should continue to operate in a good and predictable manner. The minority will still have a progressive commission scheme, i.e. that the fees paid by the broker are calculated on the basis of a gradually increasing percentage as sales total increases. This system gives the broker a direct economic interest in the sum of sales of the property, as it will be decisive for the amount of the consideration. In the majority's view, this is incompatible with the free and independent position that brokers should have in order to safeguard the interests of the buyer and seller. Such a system may also create speculations about the relationship between measles and any valuer. Right or wrong, I think it's important to clear out the basis for such speculation. I see that the rapporteur does not like the majority to focus on this relationship. The minority wants detention with regard to the use of regulations. As an example, the applicant’s rapporteur pointed to the 24-hour deadline for the acceptance of housing services under current law, which is passed on in the regulation to new law. The majority would point out that the 24-hour rule is designed according to the pattern of – I would like to clarify it – guidelines established by the real estate and law industry in cooperation with the consumer authorities in 2001. The Minister of Finance has, in a commendable way, suggested that it is also natural to look at this change in legislation once it has worked for some time. Some people call it winging. I would say that here the councils exercise soundness, without rubbing their jaws. As I said, it would be interesting to know what the minority has done or believes must be done to cool down galloping bidding rounds, as several from the minority have been in the Council of State position in the previous government. I refer to, among other things, the consumer ombudsman has for a long time missed such a rule as to slow down the bidding process and underlines that it is not least during the start-up phase of a bidding process that all parties need time to repent. In the new legislative proposal, it is important to point out that increased price comparisons have been made between real estate agencies. It must and must be possible to compare prices even if, for example, a commission has been chosen as a form of payment. The minority will not be charged when commissions are selected as payment forms. The majority want it to be written in writing, regardless of the form of payment. This, together with maximum transparency, is important for price awareness, based on consumer considerations. As far as future regulatory design is concerned, the industry and consumer organisations should know their visit time and have a good dialogue with the ministry, as I see that the Council of State calls for. With this, I recommend that Odelstingen end up with the majority vote of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e215	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e218	There's a lot you could catch up to. There are some areas in which we disagree. But I would like to take this up with transparency in the order book, which the representative Jakobsen did not come up with in his post. The proposition states that the purchaser should be given access to the bidding log by attaching it to the purchase contract. If you want to deal with it through regulations, it's said in the proposition. In the course of the work on this proposal, the Committee was given, inter alia: an opinion of the Data Protection Authority, which has some concerns about the automatic sending out of this bidding log with the settlement. Data protection shows, inter alia: to the data protection legislation in Norway, and expressed concerns about it. Does the representative of Jakobsen share the assessment of how this could be done? And do you agree that here the government should perhaps proceed a little cautiously in how to deal with this, also in regulatory context later?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e229	The majority's starting point to do what we do is to have the most openness for the buyer. I do not conceal that there has been some speculation in this sector – from a minority – in this area. I can't help but see that there is something negative about the buyer being given access to the order form. These are grown-up people, and I don't think this is something that's used as a plaything that's being sent around the neighborhood. I do not share the concern raised by the Data Protection Authority. I think it's perfectly legitimate to do what's suggested in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e234	Let me first thank the representative Jakobsen for resolving the problems that existed in respect of advance payments versus projects that are not implemented. I see that it should now be clear. So to my little question. The representative said in his post that the red-greens went in to write a bill, even if the sale was on a commission basis. Now I assume that he does not mean that it should be written in writing, because you have to do that anyway, but that he is talking about an hour specification, even if you have agreed to a fixed price. Even the consumer ombudsman thought this was a strange suggestion of practice, and could not explain what was useful about it. My question is: is this a practice that the red-greens want to carry on in Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e243	Let me first say that I think it is important for the competition in the real estate industry that it is as transparent as possible, and that consumers are price conscious. This is simply a basis for comparing different brokers in the industry. In some areas, it is the same practice that lawyers use. I can't understand and understand that it should be so negative that they have to make visible what they have spent on time. It helps to make consumers more price-conscious. In my opinion, the clean-up that has been done is necessary for the sake of the users. And then we're going to take consumer considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e248	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e251	Let me first of all thank the rapporteur for the job he has done in this matter, and for the statements made by the rapporteur. In many ways, the rapporteur, who is from the Right, has also summed up the minority proposals on which the Progress Party is involved. Today, when Odelstinget deals with the law on property brokering, the Progress Party notes that the starting point for proposed legislative changes is something we share. It is desirable to focus on consumers and to safeguard the interests of consumers. As many people keep pointing out, buying a dwelling is perhaps the biggest investment you make in life, and selling a dwelling is too many a demanding process. Unfortunately, we have seen single examples over the last few years, with the legal regulation that applies per year. date, that individual operators in the industry have acted in a way that has weakened confidence in the industry as a whole. We have also learned that some sellers and purchasers of the dwelling experience that today's legislation is defective. The Progress Party has chosen to listen to the Consumer Ombudsman and the Consumer Council, who, through good work, have been the spokesperson for consumers and who, through their contribution to the central authorities, have contributed to raising awareness of some changes that are deemed necessary. But the Progress Party has also chosen to listen to the industry itself. It is not that because someone in the industry has obviously acted in a reprehensible way, it would disqualify the entire industry from having meaningful contributions to the debate on new property law. On the contrary, I believe that most sellers and purchasers of the dwelling experience their meeting with a real estate agent as positive. Housing is traded at a record pace, and there has never been any sale of more dwellings in Norway than we have experienced in recent years. After all, the industry gets very good shots from most of us who either sell or buy housing. The Progress Party feels that the stakeholder organisations of the real estate agents and real estate agencies are engaged in the creation of rules of play that protect both consumers and industry, and in the creation of a well-functioning market. The progressing party believes that the commitment shown in this case is very positive from both sides of the field of interest. It does well to show that here it is not the major conflicts of interest but that those who take care of the industry and those who take care of the consumer have many points of view in common. In many areas, the Financial Committee has chosen to present a unanimous position. The Progress Party has joined legislative proposals in areas where all parties consider that there is a need for change. This applies, inter alia, to: proposals to improve the quality and competence of the industry. However, the Progress Party has been committed to providing for liberal transitional arrangements for the requirements of a professional for each branch and a responsible broker for each mission. The reason why we have, through comments, pointed out the need for liberal transitional arrangements, is that it is justified per year. the date will be the absence of sufficient training and approval brokers. The Progress Party considers it reasonable that employees in the industry should have time to convert their real skills, and by liberal transitional arrangements, we also ensure that all parts of the country will experience the transition in a good way. Therefore, the requirements need to be implemented in such a way that this can actually be implemented in a good way to ensure flexibility. The Progress Party has chosen to accept some proposals, and I want to use the rest of my contribution to highlight the legislative proposals we are not entirely satisfied with. I would also like to comment on the other comments in the setting behind the Advance Party. For the Progress Party, the principle of freedom of contract is strong. Where two or more parties wish on a voluntary basis to conclude legal agreements, the principle must be that the parties must be allowed to do so, without interference from the authorities and without legal regulation, which prevents the parties from concluding agreements which they themselves consider to be reasonable. The Progress Party has the belief that authoritative people themselves can manage to care for their interests at the conclusion of agreements. This leads me to the position of the majority in relation to extensive regulatory practice on the regulation of remuneration. The Contracting Party shall base the freedom of contract and shall consider it sufficient to choose between commission payments or hourly payments, as proposed in the legislative text. Another requirement in the proposal is to require brokers to write detailed hourly consumption specifications after the end of the assignment, when commission payments have been agreed. We consider this to be a very unwise requirement. If a commission payment has been agreed for the assignment on a voluntary basis, there is no intention to require such a detailed specification. This could also lead to a discussion between the contracting entity and the broker about the commission payment you have actually agreed in advance. What is the purpose of such a specification, we have difficulty seeing. The proposal also proposes the prohibition of progressive commissions. As I said, the Progress Party believes that the freedom of contract must weigh heavily, and prohibiting the seller of a dwelling from agreeing on progressive commissions is far too drastic. For many people who are going to sell a dwelling, it would be desirable to be able to conclude such agreements, and we see no reason to intervene in the freedom of contract with a legal ban. Another proposal is that brokers should not be able to use other service providers in their work and be paid for. There will often be a need for additional services, such as state reports, fares, insurance, financing, photography, etc., in the exercise of brokerage. In our opinion, this works well with ancillary services today, and we see no reason for stricter regulation. By allowing this as it works today, we believe this gives the contracting entity a better service. Prices are most likely to be more competitive, as such ancillary services are offered in a total package to the contracting entity and the industry has systems in place for this. It's e.g. so that today the brokers have negotiated favourable advertising contracts which individual consumers cannot easily achieve themselves. In the opinion of the Contracting Party, it should be sufficient for the contracting entity to be made aware of the fact that the broker is remunerated for the ancillary services. Finally, let me comment on the statement of transparency of the proposal in the bidding log and on the requirement that the bidding log automatically be attached to the purchase contract. There is today full access rights for buyers and full access rights, minus the names of bidders, for all bidders. The need for transparency has been addressed to the purchaser and the stakeholders. If you are now going to impose automatic delivery of order books, there are some questions that the Advance Party considers that the Ministry has not assessed to a large extent in the proposition. The Advance Party is pleased that the Data Protection Authority has delivered an opinion on this matter. I therefore refer to the comment on page 40 of the vote, and I refer to the opinion of the Data Protection Supervisor, which is set out in the comment: ‘Data supervision is of the opinion that the principle should be that the person in need of access to the bidding log may require such information. This is in line with the rules on transparency in Section 18 of the Personal Information Act, which is based on the need for transparency where necessary. The disclosure of the personal data contained in the bidding log may be considered as surplus information if the purchaser does not in fact suspect irregularities in the bidding round or has other good reasons for such information. This is not a good solution for privacy.» Furthermore, the Data Protection Authority states in its opinion: ‘The Data Protection Authority considers it natural that any shortcomings in the rules they are currently subject to need to be investigated and problematised to a greater extent if the requirements for access to the file are to be transformed into information obligations on the personal data contained in the file.’;» I hope that the Minister of Finance will also note this clear statement from the Data Protection Authority, and that the Ministry will take this into account in the further work on the regulations. The Progress Party believes that a good law and a good basis for ensuring the proper functioning of the market in this area are now being provided in several areas. We are pleased that several of the important legislative changes are in line with input from large parts of the industry and consumer interest groups. Nevertheless, the Progress Party appears that some changes go far into labeling consumers as individuals who need legal protection against their own opportunities to enter into voluntary agreements. For us in the Progress Party, freedom of agreement is important, and that is why we oppose some of the proposals put forward by the Government. I would also like to refer to the comments we have made and to the proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e300	I'm also in favour of freedom of agreement, I think most parties in Norway are, but an important prerequisite for freedom of agreement is that you have some equivalent parties. I have, like many others in the Chamber, noticed that the Progress Party is now the foremost defender of so-called progressive, or aggressive, commission compensation. What I'm thinking about is that a real estate agent often – I'm sure the representative of Leirstein agrees – has a lot more business on the property market than a normal consumer, like myself, who might be selling one or two homes in the course of a lifetime. And when there's no balance in this relationship, the problem often arises. Unfortunately, we have examples of real estate agents putting more money in the cash register at a sales value lower than the real, higher value in the market. Now we clean this up. My question to Mr Leirstein's representative is: if the legislation continues to be the way it is today, how will the Progress Party ensure that ordinary people who do not have all the world's goods on the property market against the kind of unprofessional players that are unfortunately on the market today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e308	I feel that some of the starting point of the questioner is that you think that most people in this industry actually have a little pig in the woods. That's not how most people experience everyday meetings with brokers. The vast majority are very pleased. I also think the questioner fully agrees with that. It also means that as long as people are satisfied, we need to have faith that so-called ordinary people actually get into this, and have an idea of, after the transaction is over, whether you're satisfied or not. The vast majority are satisfied. One of our points is that when you have the opportunity today to have progressive commissions, there are some people who want to agree it with their broker, because maybe, in some parts of the country, to have easier to sell their home. We think you should be allowed to have that opportunity. We have great faith that ordinary people can actually take those assessments themselves, and that you must not get a ban trampled down your head.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e313	This is completely incomprehensible. I can't understand, but it's really not a very surprising thing, that the Progress Party here is making itself a figure for the greedy lice among the real estate agents. It's kind of just something we have to admit. That's the way it is. Most real estate agents are good people. I have to ask a simple question, and that is what we are proposing about a total ban on service links. Ulf Leirstein does not understand that this can be negative, and believes it must agree with information. But if it is that I am going to have someone to photograph my apartment when I'm going to put it out for sale, the representative believes that the real estate agent chooses, when he has the election, a photographer who pays 1000 kroner in "kickback", one who pays 5000 kroner in "kickback", or one who pays nothing? Which of these is what the brokers will recommend me to use? Doesn't Ulf Leirstein see that this can actually go at the expense of seeing who's the best?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e325	Once again, I want to say something that I said instead, I feel that you have a scepticism that ordinary people can make free choices and actually take their own assessments of what serves them. If you have the most freedom in a market, then ordinary, up-to-date people will take those assessments and have the opportunity to rule in this market. Reference is made to the fact that the use of progressive commissions is a greedy practice of brokers. Well, as I said in my post instead, there are people who have done things in the industry, but most people who work in the industry are decent, decent people. I think we need that as a starting point. So to this with the ban on ancillary services. The progress party does not see that this is a major problem today, and does not experience any noise around this. On the contrary, most people experience their meetings with brokers and the services they offer as a total package, as something positive. I think you should have the full freedom to choose. So it's that we also want an information obligation, so that free, ordinary people get information about what's in this with ancillary services, and then can make their own choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e334	Then I follow up. It's very interesting to hear what Ulf Leirstein says. He believes that the way it works today is really optimal, and that a freest market is the most favourable. Now there's a truth with modifications, because Ulf Leirstein himself is not for a freest market here. Then we should not impose any competence requirements on the brokers, and then we should not introduce the concept of consumer purchase in connection with the real estate agent law at all. But it's Ulf Leirstein for, so he sees that the interests of ordinary people have to be protected more than what would have been the case in a free market. I have a question: if everything had worked optimally, with maximum competition, and everything had been good, prices in the market would have been pushed down to an absolute minimum. Today, the average dwelling in Norway is 2 million. kr. The average cost of selling a dwelling is NOK 100 000 in Oslo, according to the Evening Post. That's 5 pst. the value of the dwelling. Is there a reasonable price level, or does the Progress Party have any hope that it is possible to bring it down?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e343	For most people it is clearly reasonable prices, because I record that most of the homes traded are actually traded. But what we have to do, if we want to do something about this market, is then to take some other grip. I note, for example: that when the party SV, to which the representative belongs, is skeptical of large-scale residential development in many Norwegian municipalities, including in Oslo, it is clear that it is in favour of keeping prices up. If you allowed a much larger expansion of dwellings, you could get the price down. But there is SV going in the opposite direction and does not care for the interests of ordinary people by making sure that prices go down somewhat. There are many other things that people who buy housing are also concerned about. You are, for example, admission of a document fee and other charges imposed on a number of services, and it is clear that there is also a large amount of expenditure here, among other things. for first-time start-ups. So it disappoints me that SV as a party does not want to look at that aspect of the housing market, and is willing to go in and do something when they are actually in government power. As far as this industry is concerned, we agree on a number of points in terms of skills requirements, etc., which the industry itself has said it wants, and which I believe will benefit consumers, and then we will have a well-functioning market. But unfortunately, some changes from the Government's side go in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e352	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e355	I'd like to raise my eyes a little bit when we're about to deal with this property brokering law, because in a world where the right side has used the power, their forces and their time to force ordinary people to be consumers more and more, it's been important for us socialists to develop a socialist consumer policy. One of the best examples of how such a policy can be is through the direction we are going in the property brokering law that we are dealing with today. The award-winning Sofus Tranøy points to some clear points in his book ‘Market power over the senses’ regarding how market assumptions are not met today. One thing is that the information is misdistributed. It is not that parties are equivalent, as Torgeir Micaelsen was also inside here instead, and as Ulf Leirstein seems to believe, when prices and agreements are formed in a market. So there's a big difference. In addition, they have greater power than the little ones. I think that anyone who has been involved in an insurance settlement or has otherwise been in contact with a major actor can feel at the moment of conflict. There is no doubt that those who live by being large and professional are the people who have the greatest power and the greatest competence in a situation where there was to be a conflict with a person who, like the consumer, does not follow. I know that there are opportunities for me to switch power suppliers and get one that is cheaper, if I spend a lot of time figuring this out. But it does not pay for me, because it is not something I have an interest in doing, simply because I am not interested in using large parts of my life to accompany as a consumer in all possible transactions I am involved in. That's how I think it is for most people. The opposite is, of course, the professional actors, who are just living off all the small margins they're interested in, and are able to harvest because people have little time to do this. That's why it's very important to have a consumer perspective, and that's what we're doing in this, which I think is a historical real estate agent law. We also require competence. It provides security and provides quality both for home buyers and for home vendors, and also gives real estate agents a greater authority or greater performance through the fact that we are now increasingly protecting the titles of ‘brokers’ and ‘property brokers’. I myself have bought and sold the apartment six times, and I have very well noticed that the people who refer to themselves as brokers do not necessarily have any competence at all. With regard to this picture that Ulf Leirstein gave, that everyone is so pleased with the real estate agents, I would say it's just following the evening's test of the various real estate agents, you'll see that there are many there who don't necessarily provide trust. The best people in the industry are good people who are good and who contribute in a good way, and there are many of them, but not everyone is there. That'll be more of when we change the law. Our second perspective is consumer safety, that we focus more on state assessments, and that we slow down the pace of starting the bidding rounds. This was taken up here and attended by the representative Fleet. It is also the case that I have been on many views where it has been said: the view was cancelled. The apartment was sold. It doesn't happen anymore. It's a good thing for ordinary people. The fact that we put an absolute stop to the advance payment for consumer purchases is a good idea to avoid people entering into contracts that they do not necessarily have a full overview of when they are entered into. The fact that we get more transparency about bidding by adding things to the purchase agreement, and that we get more transparency about pricing, I actually think I'm going to agree to give a more functioning market. It is clear that when people see that part of the turnover is going to have a very high hourly rate, this will lead to larger demands on real estate agents and more demanding customers. I think that's positive, and it should all be for that. Because when it comes to the mediation of houses and apartments, after all, it's all the purchase and sale that's the central one, and the broker fees are actually a transaction cost. In addition, as I said, it is good that we get financial incentives that work in line with the purpose of the law. That we end progressive commission is also a good thing. This will be a good law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e379	The representative Holmås had here a strong defense for what he calls a socialist consumer policy. The policy consists of reducing the freedom of agreement and regulating most areas more and more in detail. What strikes me in the first place is that this was a tried thing in Eastern Europe in the last century, and they finally realized that it wasn't the way to go. It may well happen that Holmås will also at some point, some time in the future, see it. My question is: is there a limit to how much the Socialist Left Party and the Government will reduce the freedom of agreement and to control the details, or is there a level one comes to where it doesn't make sense to continue with more detail management and regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e388	Politics is about choosing sides in many contexts, so we're going to be hard on the consumer side. In this case, it is a matter of granting consumers specific rights in relation to real estate. But do you know what surprises me the most? This is about Gjermund Hageseter and the other representatives of the Progress Party are talking to each other, for earlier, in the Justice Committee, the SV and the Progress Party have in many contexts found together precisely in connection with the Sale of Goods Act in the matters of strengthening consumer rights, while here it is such that when we come to the Grand Chamber, we are the big, ugly wolves because we restrict the freedom of contract. Free agreements are very smooth between equivalent parties. In a consumer purchasing context, we recognise that one party has less knowledge and therefore needs special protection. That's what we guarantee ordinary people in real estate matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e396	When you hear the representative Holmås’ panegyrian remarks that we're changing the law, we're raising our eyes, it would be thought that something dramatic had happened in the finance committee during the examination of this bill. But it's not at all. That's the way I expressed it in my main post, that we're pretty much in agreement. All the tumors of Holmås are left with two–three different things, where among other things. the hourly specification when commissions have already been agreed is one of the conditions. I asked the representative Alf R. Jakobsen about this, but I got no answer as to whether this was something the red-greens had intended to do in Norwegian business in general, because this is something that is happening in all industries. You make a fixed-price agreement. Then you send a bill, but you actually don't send an hour specification. Will Holmås with his lifted eyes go on in Norwegian business with these ideas?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e403	I'm told that if Svein Fleet suggests it, we're always going to take a closer look at it. I want to say that in real estate relations, it's actually the opposite that happens, because here it's not usually the way to agree on a fixed price. Here you usually agree to a commission, and you don't see until after what the price of the service is. Usually I would like to say that knowing the price in advance is an advantage. Once I have ordered craftsmanship services, I have believed that I did not know in advance how much it really cost. This is about commission. I believe that in order to become demanding customers, to become demanding consumers, and to strengthen our ability to better check whether we've got value for money, it's good for people in retrospect to see: what did I really pay the broker for the hour? What was the matter here? It is clear that this could increase the level of conflict. That's what the real estate agents have been working on and said. I think so, too, until we get a price level that most people think is reasonable in terms of these services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e412	I thought this was going to be a normal day at work, but I understand that it is a historic day we are facing, where the great step towards socialist Norway and socialist consumer policy are taken. And if the president had invited to sing the International, maybe up to several people had voted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e417	Yes, I vote in, I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e422	First I have to say that I have never sold a dwelling, and then when I meet a young man who has sold six times, it is perhaps the closest I have been to a residential speculator in my life, the four meters that separate us in this hall! If we're going to get down to the ground and to the realities, there's little difference between the different debaters and the positions of the parties we're talking about. So to the extent that it's something, it's the level of regulation. My simple question to the representative Holmås is: Is he to ban everything he is against?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e429	The president is very much in doubt if the representative Sponheim was about to call a co-representative of the building speculator, but he let it pass in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e432	It's all right, President. But to answer the question easily, of course, the answer is no. I'm not here to ban everything I'm against. But I am very much in order to ensure that consumers, ordinary people who make their biggest investment in life, namely buying a home, or selling the house when you get a divorce, or selling the home and buying it again, should have as much security and security as possible, not to buy the cat in the bag, something that we do when we both ensure better complaints and better assessments of the condition of the dwellings in advance, and that you don't pay too much. It should worry more than one average socialist who lives on the Tøen, that the cost of living today is approaching a 20th, i.e. 5 pst. of what is the average value of a dwelling. There's a lot of money for ordinary people who want to move your workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e439	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e442	Yes, if the representative Holmås is not a residential speculator, I would say that he is at least a real estate agent's dream that has changed the dwelling so many times in such a short time. They are probably very satisfied, and in addition, the Minister of Finance is also pleased if there are self-catering apartments he has operated and purchased, because then the department has received various kroner in the document fee as well. So to the best of the community, Holmås has at least contributed – there is no doubt about it. I am also a little concerned about the attempts to make it so that in this case it is so – what to say – big counterpolkers here, so I thought that there might be something about that when the representative Holmås and SV have housed themselves so up, it is because they have started counting the victories, both the small and the large, and that they really make sure to live up to the motto that I understand was a bit pervasive at the national meeting, that one should take the positive, and then one should forget the negative. And then it can probably be seen as a great victory, this too. I want to point out that this sample was reduced by the previous government, because you saw a need to review the law. But in addition, I would like to point out that there is one part of the residential turnover that you see here. In addition, we have the valuers and their work in connection with residential sales that is important. And we have, as mentioned in the proposition and also in the setting, what is related to the possibility of mandatory house sales reports. It has been referred to by the Department for its own investigation, and it is believed that it belongs to the law of disposal. I think that for the even buyer, who might buy a dwelling two or three times during his life, it's probably so important how the condition of the dwelling comes into being in a sales situation. That's where I think it's actually a way to go in relation to what's happening today. There is far too little concrete information that comes out, and you have the opportunity to bring it, because the market is such that you don't have time to go through the dwelling the way you might want to talk about amounts and investments in the price class we're doing here. From the Christian People's Party we look forward to what the Government will bring in connection with what has been announced about the new selection, and that in the light of the law of disposal. Then I would say that the Christian People's Party in this setting has shown itself as an intermediate party. We have supported the Government in many of the proposals that have been made, including the proposal that in consumer purchasing conditions there should be no advance payment, which the majority of the Committee has accepted. We support that, and we think that is a good consumer position. On the other hand, we have also had no objection to supporting the opposition and the case rapporteur said that it would be necessary to keep an hour list when the two parties have decided to have one price for the sale. It is, in our opinion, a pointless red tape of the mission itself once you have decided between yourself to have one price for the assignment that has been given. We mainly support what is in the setting, which I really perceive we're all doing. We in the Christian People's Party see this as a first step on the way to getting safer sales of homes that are better than the case today, taking care of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e459	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e462	It is nice to note that the Christian People's Party is an intermediate party in this matter and supports us on several points. I want to raise one point where the Christian People's Party and the government parties disagree, and these are restrictions on people without education being able to call themselves brokers, i.e. who can call themselves brokers. In order to safeguard the rights of consumers, the Government proposes stricter requirements of competence. The Christian People's Party wants better and more modest transitional rules. Does the Christian People's Party consider it more important to take account of the interests of the mediators than of consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e470	I want to say in the setting this is a question where there are nuance differences between the government parties and the opposition. What we've been concerned about in terms of residential sales is that we can't just look at the situation in Oslo and in the larger cities. We also have a large area where the residential turnover has a slightly different character than what it has in the larger cities. We have basically seen it as reasonable to also look at practical transitional arrangements, and to consider real competences to be able to relate to the title to which the representative Aasen Agdestein refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e477	I am very pleased that the previous government put this sample down, because there is no doubt that it gave us a valuable basis for adopting the proposal for a new law that lies here. The representative Svein Fleet had the assumption that when there is a large gap in the sample, we should make the least possible possible. We've chosen the opposite angle of incidence: when there's a big gap in the sample, there's good reason to look at this, because here's actually the political dividing lines, where we've consistently chosen consumer purchasing dividing lines. I have two questions for the representative of the Christian People's Party. One is: does the representative Syversen think it is a good strategy to be consistent on the part of consumers? As Oslo representatives, we experience high housing prices, but also high brokerage costs in connection with the purchase and sale. My other question is therefore: does the representative Syversen have any opinion as to whether they are reasonable today or whether they should go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e488	It could be tempting to say that when Holmås believes that SV makes the most possible, and the Fleet believes that the Right should make the least possible, the Christian People's Party believes that we should do so much to have a balance here! But to answer the two questions asked by the representative Holmås, we believe that in the setting we have been largely consumer friendly, and we should be. At the same time, it is clear that this is usually a task between an individual and a brokerage firm. We can't ignore that either. In general, in terms of how much it costs a consumer to sell or buy a dwelling, which I expect was the last question, we see that the ordinary brokerage wage is, after all, quite normal in relation to what is going on in society in general. Then we have some brokers that are completely in the superclass, and that gets to be so, but it's usually very high-end consumers who pick up that kind of broker.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e497	No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e500	New laws on real estate brokerage provide better care for consumers, and it will not least ensure safer bidding. The purchase of property is a major economic choice, not least of which there is a need for independent assistance, so that the role of real estate agents is very important. It is important that we strengthen their independence from other interests. Therefore, it is central that the regulations of this law clarify that, among other things. lawyers and brokers cannot be both managers and brokers of property. This is very important to get cleaned up. We have to sort out the business that more people have been involved in. We have to get rid of the insecurity that is. We need to strengthen the concession system, and we need to strengthen the requirement of competence. However, the regulations must also provide for transitional rules that meet the need for recognition of real competences and the need for brokerage companies across the country, including in pig-grown strips, as the fleet representative, from the Right, said so finely. The industry is largely satisfied with the legislative changes. The government's bill tightens the law in several areas. A particularly important point that I want to mention is independence from the form of remuneration. Furthermore, I would like to mention that you have to print the bill for each job, and the bill has to be complementary, you have to see what you have paid for – we in the Center Party consider it to be seaworthy that both the buyer and the seller are interested in; you do not just want to have a fixed sum. Furthermore, I would like to mention that no advances are to be paid in these transactions. This is then proposed by law, so that it cannot be waived. This is because otherwise the consumer is much weaker. For consumers, buying property is often a one-off agreement, whereas for brokers it is almost daily. The fact that no advances are due cannot be waived is true when a trade has been established. If trade has not been achieved, brokers will require payment under the contract of engagement. Furthermore, the majority suggest that according to the law there should not be access to progressive commissions for the job. It'll help prevent an over-aggressive behaviour from brokers, which we've seen a number of examples of. Finally, the purchaser’s right of access to the bidding log should be extended to an ordinary written attachment to a purchase contract. There is something that does not need to change the law, and so the Central Party supports the Ministry's proposal for a new regulation and practice at this important point.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e522	The representative of Holmås launched today’s ‘socialist consumer policy’. It was launched as if the entire government and all the government parties were behind it. It was understood that this law that we are dealing with today should apply in many areas, and that one should then be in favour of more detailed management and reduced contract freedom. I could imagine asking the question to the representative of Lundtigen, who represents the Central Party: Is this with socialism and socialist consumer policy a slogan that also the Center Party puts itself 100 pst. Back?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e529	We in the Center Party probably see this in a slightly different way. I would rather say that the law on real estate that we are now dealing with is rather the final approval of private property rights from the party SV in government. So here it's made significant progress, seen with the central party's eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e534	It was rewarding to hear Mr Lundtägen's factual comments, relatively without the great shades that have been in the debate so far. Can I then conclude by saying that the representative does not seem to have been the major differences in the committee during this discussion, and that almost all parties have agreed on the objective, agreed on the main means, and that the disagreement has been in relatively small circumstances?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e541	Yes, I believe there has been a reasonable consensus in the Committee on the objectives. There is probably a difference in the level of instruments, the degree of transparency, the degree of — what to say — pointed out follow-up. But if the awake reads the setting, he will see that in terms of the considerations to be taken care of, one goes in the same direction, but there is a difference that goes on that the majority does not recede in some respects to use the tools necessary to ensure a different behaviour in the brokerage industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e546	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e550	Let me first express the assessment of the debate that it is clear that it has been too long since the Committee on Finance has had the opportunity to have a debate in this Chamber, for distances and differences are being made here. This has become a much greater debate than it should be. It's in and of itself nice. It is important to debate. One of the major questions that might be raised after this debate is: Has Norway become more or less socialist? At least many will remember from the various claims that have come from the government parties, where on the one hand we have now taken the great step towards a socialist consumer policy, while the centre party believes that it is SV who has now gone over to be a party of property rights, the interests of the landowners, etc. We'll see how it's possible to reconcile fire and water. I will choose to be so sober in my comment on what we are now discussing, and the changes that are, by focusing on what was also stated during the speech by the representative Lundtigen, that there are very small differences here. There is broad agreement on the law under consideration that is being passed today. Then there are some small shades to the extent of the need to regulate certain aspects of this. I want to use the words 'degrees of difference'. It had been tempting to hit much harder, when the representative Holmås went as strongly to work as he did. For a while during the debate, the impression could be that good consumer policy is to dissuade consumers as much as possible. I have the opposite view. Consumers must be given the power to become good consumers. Policies must combine the setting of a framework for the free choice of individual consumers and precisely empowering consumers to conclude contracts. I guess that's really where the greatest and most fundamental difference lies. Then there's someone in the debate who's been a bit caricatured by, for example. to suggest that the minority, by not choosing to prohibit the possibility of progressive commission, is very much in favour of such commission. I think I'm pretty against it, but I haven't actually been in it and I've used it, but I won't forbid it. I will allow the individual consumer himself to enter into an agreement where he does not make use of it. There may well be examples, which are referred to here – and I think that is right – that it would be directly in the interests of the consumer to be able to use such commissions on some occasions. It has been suggested here that there are some people who are very much using that kind of instruments. I haven't heard that in this debate, and I think it's giving each other a little unfairness. It is therefore about the degree and need to regulate and to dissuade the individual consumer's ability and ability to conclude contracts. The left is for transparency, but we're also for privacy. We believe that the legislation we have today meets both the requirements of transparency and privacy. Then I think of transparency in bidding rounds in a good way. All bidders have the right of access. I believe that it is completely unnecessary to legislate for a mandatory transparency by keeping order files as an attachment to a purchase contract. Here we are in line with the Data Protection Authority, that the proposed amendment to the law is actually unnecessary disclosure of what is called surplus information, if the purchaser does not actually suspect irregularities in the bidding round, or has other good reasons for such information. Therefore, it is not a good solution if you look at privacy, the Data Protection Authority believes. I agree. I will finally be allowed to make a request to the industry, if possible. I don't think you should go to law for everything you're for. It is possible to appeal to good forces to do things in a good way, without the politicians dictate them to it. It's about openness around bidding rounds. In Stockholm, for example, possible for the bidder to follow the bidding round online. Everyone who offers a dwelling is sent a password to a website where the bidding round can be followed and where it is possible to submit new bids. Of course, the bidders are anonymous to each other on the website, but it is in any case possible to follow the process all the way until the sale is completed. That's what the industry needs to do. It ensures transparency and efficiency, and it may even bring costs down.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e565	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e568	It's very rare that most of us buy or sell a dwelling. Many have therefore had a good deal of experience in this area. The consumer usually has great confidence in the broker and that he/she has unhindered competence and will do well for the consumer. The real estate agent faces easily affectable customers if he wants to sell additional services. This can be abused. The Government therefore proposes to impose a prohibition on receiving non-commissioner revenues, in order to ensure that the broker only takes care of the interests of its customers. The left has gone against this. My question to the representative Sponheim is therefore: why will the Left not safeguard the interests of the consumer in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e577	I believe that consumers are able to take good care of their interests. Faced with the offers or opportunities offered by a broker, I am absolutely sure that consumers can sort out whether or not they have earned additional services. I actually think that consumers are pretty good at dealing with this. I don't think it's right that the poor-tuning of housing buyers that I think the government parties have stressed in this debate. There are relatively few complaints in relation to the large amount of dwellings sold. That's why I can't see the need to regulate this in the way that the majority wants to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e584	I just allow myself to point out to Lars Sponheim that in relation to what this debate is all about and is an example of, my point was to raise the perspective and say that in the last ten years – including when Lars Sponheim was in power – consumers have made more and more transactions. It has become clearer that the market is not a place where people have equal opportunities, have equal information, have equal opportunity to be constantly up-to-date on legislation, etc. Just in such markets, this is about what should really be a good social liberal tradition, that of gripping the little man who stands up in a situation he may never have stood up before. Lars Sponheim has never been a residential buyer – that's exactly the situation I described – and I allow myself to claim that I have a little better knowledge of this than he did. The question then is, is there no need to develop more policy precisely in areas of consumer interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e589	It's an interesting problem, which I would like to have spent a lot of time reasoning around. Let me first say that it is quite obvious that any market economy would destroy itself if it was not surrounded by good regulation. All actors in a market economy will not have competitors. They prefer to buy them up and take out monopoly profits. We need strict social frameworks to force actors to stick to good competition. The same is true of openness. The replicator is quite right that we see that the consumer perspective, the market economy, applies in several areas of society – fortunately. That's why we're doing so well, and it works. In my opinion, however, consumers have also had better conditions and better opportunities to become better consumers. It is about information flows, for example: via the Internet. There is today a completely different opportunity to get in touch with the market, to get information to make rational decisions, than just ten years ago. So consumers have had completely different opportunities. They have been strengthened by this development, and it may also happen in this area. However, as a fundamental principle, it is also important for a social liberal to have a framework around a market economy that makes the market work. I am in favour of a market economy, and not of a socialist consumer policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e600	No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e603	I think it is funny and stimulating that a debate on such an important law as the one we are dealing with here today also makes the members of the Financial Committee want to address a little more ideological, general questions about the market, consumer interests and how to ensure that consumers are empowered, well-informed people who, after perhaps the biggest economic transaction they are involved in in their lives, are either tricked or have the sense of being cheated. If it's the case that the law on real estate has led to some turbulence in the finance committee, then I think it's an additional bonus that we can enjoy all of us. I'm not going to go through all the elements of the law that Odelstinget is going to adopt here today, because it's well-lit by the case rapporteur and through the debate, but just commenting on the main actions. It is quite right, as has been pointed out in the debate, that the starting point for this legislative work has been a public investigation. The recommendations from the public inquiry were unusually brittle, I guess that's what it's all about. It was based on the recommendations that came, not obvious where to lie when it came to the legislative proposals. On the other hand, it could be said that there was a good menu which meant that there was a great opportunity to exercise political discretion and that the political balance between the interests of the industry and the interests of consumers had not already been made. I believe that the government and government parties have found a good balance that makes this a very important law for consumers' interests in buying and selling property. It is not the case that proposals intended to take care of consumers have been followed as far as possible in all contexts – we have made a good assessment. But this is quite obvious a law that ensures much more than before the interests of consumers in the purchase and sale of property. On the other hand, even though there is agreement on the great grips of the law, all the proposals that come from the bourgeois opposition in connection with the issue being dealt with in Stortinget go in the opposite direction. They weaken consumer protection – not necessarily dramatic in all contexts, but something – and are very much in line with objections raised by industry in the run-up to the law and after the consultation rounds. What is central to this law is firstly to give consumers greater protection by prohibiting progressive commissions, but not by prohibiting commissions. But the most aggressive element – what we know has misled most in the market – we believe it should be prohibited to use. Otherwise, you can conclude the agreements you want. But we're going to make sure that the consumer becomes more price conscious. We will ensure that you receive an offer for an hourly rate before you enter into an agreement, and we will then have an overview of what you have actually paid for. In that way, we believe that it should be possible to achieve a much greater price awareness of this. Secondly, we protect the brokerage status, the brokerage competence more than before. With these two main approaches, we believe that we have found a good balance. Finally, let me just make a little comment on what's going on about the 24-hour rule. In my opinion, it has had a very good effect in relation to the situation surrounding the purchase and sale of the dwelling. This means that many people have had the opportunity to check the nature of the dwelling they want to buy. You've checked your own economy. You have checked with your partner or the person you are going to buy with – you agree on what you are doing. The situation was that many home buyers felt that they had no room to do so. The experience we have so far gained with the 24-hour rule makes me think that this is a rule that should pass. If there are serious objections to this, I will be responsive, but I have not heard any serious objections to this. Nor do I see that the majority of the Committee on Finance has any particular specification in relation to the concerns they feel about this. I believe that this has been so far successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e625	The housing market is under heavy pressure, and we are seeing higher and higher housing prices. The signals from the construction industry are that the prices of construction products are increasing by between 30 and 50 pst. within one year. The red-green government is a hot-to-carryer of property taxes, they want a document fee, which leads to more expensive dwellings or higher housing costs. The government has announced that it will have new building regulations in terms of climate. It will increase housing prices by an estimated 20-30 pst. Yesterday the government announced that it wanted to assess compulsory owner-change insurance for the sale of dwellings. This too could contribute to increased housing prices. When we add higher interest rates to the top, we have a 100 pst. increase. Does the government’s numerous legislative proposals on new residential buildings make housing even more expensive? Does the government’s many new laws and regulations increasingly push out of the housing market? And does the Council of State understand that the government's housing policy will make more and more dependent on public transfers to afford to live in owner-occupied dwellings?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e632	Firstly, I think that the representative Tybring-Gjedde is quite free when he believes that the background for increasing housing prices should be a wide range of public regulations and regulations. What we are seeing now may well be that the housing market reflects the fact that among very many consumers there is a significant economic freedom of action. It's a good idea to push prices up. At the same time, we know that a lot of people might be borrowing more than they should, especially the youngest borrowers not only borrow 100 pst, but maybe also borrow freely for many years, and that's part of pushing prices up. There is nothing in the current situation that would indicate that there are public directives or regulations that contribute to housing prices at this level.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e638	In his brief summary of the debate, the Council of State says that there is a great deal of consensus, but that the proposals that come from the opposition go in the opposite direction and go in the wrong direction. It's a little unpresist at best, because two of the opposition's proposals are the government's own proposals in the proposition. Then my question is, and this concerns something as central as the freedom of agreement: What were the reasons for the state council's motions when it was originally proposed that there should be contractual freedom in § 7-4, which relates to remuneration?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e643	It is true that some changes have been made to the majority in the course of the proceedings in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, and it has been because the red-green parties on the Grand Duchy want to further intensify the situation for consumers in this area. We thought that we had found a balance that was acceptable, but I see the point that the bulk of the population has in relation to advance payments and what kind of contracts you should be able to make, that some consumers can come into a situation that they did not understand at the time they entered into a contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e648	I would like to take up with the Council of State something that is mentioned in the proposition. It is on a mandatory state report, which is not proposed here, but which is intended to set up a separate sample to assess. It is clear that when you have to invest in a dwelling, maybe spend 2-3 million. kr, it is of great importance to know what the actual condition of the dwelling is. With today's system, with what's often a fare, you have a very superficial opportunity to evaluate the actual state. So my question is, what is the starting point for such a mandatory state report? Is she in favour of it, and what is the time perspective of the Council of State regarding the promotion of a case for the Stortinge which concerns this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e653	The background to this is, of course, that one is in favour of the intention and purpose of such a proposal. On the other hand, it's not so concrete that someone knows exactly what the extent of it is, and what should be the level of ambition for something like that. That is also why we believe that this is an instrument that we should investigate. I am not quite sure when we can expect to get back to Stortinget with that, but I can take a little round and report it back to the representative. It is quite obvious that getting a good overview of what you are actually buying is absolutely crucial to being an operationally informed customer in this market. So the question is just how far to go. But the 24-hour deadline makes you have an opportunity to get a little bit more involved in these situations and ask more than that many felt they could a short time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e658	Of course, the Council of State is familiar with it – let us say – a concern that the Data Protection Authority has made to the proposals for increased transparency of the bidding round and how surplus information can be disseminated to a much greater extent than the data protection authorities consider strictly necessary. The minority has pointed to this and expressed the same concern and has recommended to the ministry to review it. Does the Council share any of this concern that this could be information that is being misused get out of hand? There may be small places, there may be many reasons why people at one stage start to live in a home, it can contribute to many kinds of rumors, etc. Is the Council of State also concerned about privacy here, and is she willing to take into account the recommendation to make any further assessments about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e663	I have, of course, noted the objections of the Data Protection Authority in the matter. At the same time, I think that very many of those who are customers or sellers – customers first and foremost – in a real estate market are too little aware of how the process actually happens, and what you might ask for, and how to monitor a bidding round yourself. That's why we want you to have the opportunity to get better at it, and to become aware that you can do it too. Ergo is a way of raising consumer awareness. Several proposals in this law are precisely such that they contribute to raising consumer awareness by providing them with information they may not initially have requested. Then the medal may have a backside. I have not considered it so serious that it would not be worth raising the awareness of consumers in this area. That's my opinion so far. If there were to be many protests against that kind of information coming too far and going a long way into privacy, we'd rather look at that part again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e670	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e673	The Government's proposal for a new law on real estate mediation was both necessary and timely. We have recently witnessed several examples of transactions on the property market that have been highly critical. The need for cleaning up therefore has our pressing. The galloping price of housing has also updated Saka. The Minister of Finance commends the offensive handling of the case. She has put great emphasis on the fact that the purchase and sale of housing for the vast majority of people is the biggest trade they ever do. Great economic values are at stake. Mistakes and unlucky arrangements may have major negative effects, especially for those who have the least resources to help themselves with. For that reason, many people who are on the market are buying services from real estate agents. The scope of the laws is largely unchanged. However, substantial changes are proposed to ensure that the seller and the buyer receive good and independent assistance. There is also a strong emphasis on the most efficient movement of fixed ownership. Consumer concerns have been given a dominant place in the bill, which has been pointed out by many. It's totally positive. The person who buys or sells the dwelling will feel much more secure than before when the trade is made. Transactions will happen in a clean way. In turn, this gives the consumer greater protection. Furthermore, the new legislation facilitates increased seriousness in the real estate sector in general. One of the new measures is that progressive progress should be prohibited. It's then decided a correct grip. The broker does not become an independent instance if he or she has clear economic motives for the highest possible sum of sales. In addition, the existing system may give rise to speculation about the link between the measles and the tariff person. I don't want to insinuate that wrong is happening. But it's a self-evident point that all doubts are cleared aside in the government's arrangement. I am therefore surprised that the opposition does not show a principled attitude in this area. The opposition here sees the consumer interests side by side. The new law states that brokers should write an invoice for all assignments regardless of the form of consideration agreed upon. This makes it possible to determine the nature and extent of the work carried out. The consumer wants to benefit from such a scheme. It'll also have a few people, in my opinion. They need to be able to see the value of an overview of the use of time and resources. Furthermore, it is incomprehensible that it should be more difficult for real estate agents to keep an account than that, for example. is for lawyers. The opposition also intersects at this point. The minority points out that this is about unnecessary consumer protection. Otherwise, we have pointed out that the requirement of accounting will create conflict. These arguments are, according to my opinion, weak. Many consumers have a lack of understanding of the size of the remuneration. Then there can be no point in continuing a system that makes it difficult for consumers to assess the requirements of the broker. If the size of the consideration is correct, it should be possible to pass it on to consumers, among others. by means of a printed bill for all tasks. The majority of the committee, the members of the government party, place great emphasis on the fact that the consumer is very weak when making an agreement with a professional real estate agent. A logical consequence of this assessment is that real estate agents cannot claim payment until the assignment is completed. The majority therefore argues that the prohibition on advance payments should not be deviable. In this area, too, the consumer’s interests are being given decisive weight. I also refer to the views expressed by the Consumer Council in this context. Odelsting today will make decisions that have several positive effects. With the setting provided by the Financial Committee, everything facilitates the safe and orderly movement of immovable property. I hope that the basis has now been laid for cleaning up unfortunate transactions in an industry that has sometimes had a poor reputation. The consumer's security will now be the determining moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e696	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e699	There is hardly a consumer area where it is as important to have a clean industry as in the real estate market. Buying and selling houses is a big project. There are transactions that you do a few times in life, and there are so many sums involved that it is crucial for both the buyer and the seller that the acquisition goes well apart. The opposite can have major economic consequences for individuals, at worst. If it's rare you use a broker, it's a vrant to be price conscious. The law will now ensure a much better opportunity for consumers to see brokers in the cards compared to what you get for what you pay in broker fees. Then I think of the following points: prohibition of progressive progress, written offer at hourly rates, writing bills for each assignment. This increases competition and is good for customers and consumers. Another important point I would like to raise is that we will now set much stricter standards of competence. It's high time. Many have believed that they have gone to a state-authorised real estate agent, while in reality the one who did the job was just an assistant with no formal competence, with what this could lead to. It's being cleaned up right now. The last point I want to make is that the mediators' independence is sharpened. Property speculation and real estate is not part of this, and it's good that we're pointed out. That's why I'm happy with the new law. I am convinced that consumers will experience this industry as safer and more consumer friendly, and then we have done our job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e712	There has been a fine debate, and I am pleased that we have had a broad discussion about this important industry in Norway. It's true, as most of us say, that it's an industry that essentially has good, competent people. Even on several occasions I have been away in this crowd, and it has largely been very well, both as a buyer and as a seller. But unfortunately – and that is what it really boils down to – there are some examples of the opposite. That's what the changes in this law aim to clean up, and I think that's the best thing for us as consumers in Norway. After the law became known, I and many others have been in contact with several real estate agents, and the feedback is a bit mixed. People I know, for example. who works as an unskilled in the brokerage industry, is not particularly pleased that the title is now being protected. I mean, as Marianne Aasen Agdestein was in, it's high time that you can't broker homes without education. When it comes to perhaps the most important asset to buy or sell during life, you have to be able to set a minimum requirement that you have some education at the bottom when you have to make such important transactions. People who work seriously in the industry, and who basically have people with approved education, I feel very happy with the changes that have been proposed. And in this debate, none of us have any desire to hang out the people who are doing honest work that brokers today. I also know more people who work as real estate agents, but who don't have education at the bottom, who are good people. But unfortunately again, it's the unprofessional actors who use the dirt hole that it's actually when about anyone can call themselves brokers, which causes problems to arise. It's now being cleaned up. Then I perceive that in this debate that we have had today, this one really boils down to what to put in freedom of contract. I am also in favour of freedom of contract. That's why we, for example. does not propose the prohibition of commissions as a means of compensation. Some in the public debate have called for this. We do not, and that is because we are largely in favour of contractual freedom. But freedom of contract requires that you are somewhat equivalent parties, that you have about the same knowledge of the market you're going to enter, and that's not the case with the sale or purchase of properties. When it's suggested that we should introduce such a kind of ban on various remuneration regulations in other sectors of business as well, I would say that there's a difference between buying a sausage in bread, or something a little less valuable, and buying a property for several million dollars, which you might do once or twice in your life. Therefore, it is also necessary to be able to impose additional special requirements on such an industry as this. All in all: I think this is good. I hear that the fleet, the rapporteur, wants us to be part of the government's original proposal. I invite: it's still possible to vote for the great changes that we've made in the committee. I am delighted to vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e724	I think it is right that the representative, Mr Mikalsen, just said that some of the important things in this case are the debate on the freedom of agreement, and there are hardly any differences left. The right and the opposition are on the Government's original proposal. It really shows how little difference there is in this case, and that this airway of disagreement that there has been an attempt to get to, really does not exist. Just a few final remarks: It was said by the representative Holmås that I said in an post that a large gap in the public sector meant that the right would not mean anything. Actually, I didn't say that. I said you should be careful about adding too much when there was a big crack in a public sample. So a little comment to the committee's chairman, the representative Sandal, who says that one of the reasons for getting this proposition is the galloping prices of housing. I haven't seen that anywhere, that there should be a reason for this. I perceive that we make laws and regulations for consumers, for an industry, not that we are working here to get prices up and down in the housing market. The representative Holmås has so far been involved in something of the same. I think that if you want to do something about housing prices, or if you want to do something about housing costs in the long term – and that's even more important – the red-greens should think about people's interest expenses and about a financial and budgetary policy that helps not to increase interest rates. It is the most important contribution they can make to Norwegian owner-occupiers and Norwegian buyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e733	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e749	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 381]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e757	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e765	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1, 2 and 3, by Svein Flötten on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left motion No. 4, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e840	The first sentence of § 1-3 is preceded by an alternative proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on real estate mediation, the first sentence of § 1-3 shall be replaced by the following:The provisions of § 6-4, § 6-5, § 7-1, § 7-2 first to third paragraphs, § 7-4 third paragraph and § 8-8 may be waived outside consumer relations.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e924	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4, from Labour Party, Progress Party, Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left. The proposal concerns a correction of Section 2-4, paragraph 2, of the recommendation and is made by a single committee. The proposal reads as follows: «Law on real estate services § 2-4 nr. 2 is replaced by the following: 2. housing units, cf. Law No. 6 June 2003 38 on building permits;’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e1225	Here is an alternative proposal, no. 2, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 5-4 of the Law on Real Estate Mediation shall be replaced by the following:In so far as undertakings and lawyers engaged in real estate transactions, see: Paragraphs 2 to 1 and persons referred to in the first paragraph of Section 5 to 3 receive benefits from persons other than the contracting entity for the performance of the contract shall be disclosed in the contract of employment.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e1473	The Progress Party, Right and Left have warned that they will vote against § 7-2 first and fifth paragraphs. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against the third paragraph of § 7-2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e1524	Here is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the law on real estate mediation, the first paragraph of Section 7-4 is replaced by the following: If the duration of the contract is not followed, the contracting entity shall pay when the contractor so requires after the service has been performed. [[1]] If the consideration is agreed as a percentage of the purchase price, the consideration for payment shall be due when trade has been made, unless otherwise agreed.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e1744	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e1754	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-26-lower.ana.ud541e2165	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
