ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e31	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before case No. 1 is taken up, the President will inform you that the position to be taken here has not been beyond the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of the third sentence of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that Odelstinget still deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e51	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the Labour Party and up to 5 minutes to each of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e60	Following the submission of the draft budget for next year, there has been a wide-ranging debate on the poverty policy of the majority. Based on that debate, it may seem that the fight against poverty is just a matter of money. Of course it's about money. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration and the Government Declaration, the Government and the Stortinget have also increased the appropriations to combat poverty. Increases from 2006 and 2007 are continued, while a further increase of 336 million is proposed. A total increase of more than $1 billion. This is by itself not a topic here today, we will have plenty of time to discuss in connection with the 2008 state budget. Combating poverty is not just about spending money, it's also about doing the right things. When the Stortinget today will debate Ot.prp. No 70 for 2006-2007, About the law on changes in the social services law and in some other laws, it's just about doing the right things. Behind the somewhat spicy title of the proposition lies a new major reform: qualification programme and qualification support for people of working age who have few or no rights today in the ordinary social security system. In this group, we find some of the poorest. To a large extent, this is about long-term recipients of social assistance. There are people who, for various reasons, are excluded from the labour market, people who are largely lacking the qualifications needed to get out of a situation that is perceived as hopeless and who, despite it, get an offer today that can be perceived as random and untargeted, and partly significant differences from the municipality to the municipality. As a result of changes in the Social Services Act, we are now opening up to these people, who have previously been more or less excluded not only from the labour market, but also from the active measures that the labour and welfare seat is facing in order to get people to work, to have the same opportunity to qualify for a future professional life as those with social security rights. Through a thorough assessment of performance and with the right to a period of qualification over time according to an individual planned plan, these persons are given a new chance. That is a significant reform we are talking about. We're expanding the welfare community to a lot more. Overall, the qualification programme could cover around 30000 people when the programme is fully implemented in all municipalities by the end of 2009. In this way, the Qualification Programme is one of the most important measures to combat poverty and one of the main interventions in the follow-up to the St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007, Work, well-being and inclusion. That's exactly the three things it's about. Work is the second most important instrument for the eradication of poverty. Income from own employment is the second most important source of welfare for individuals, but not least for children in poor families. And it's about inclusion, it's about a welfare society that is able to see the individual and take the necessary action with the individual to include those who are outside the well-being of most of us. It's also about the right to create your own identity by being allowed to contribute to the community of which you're part. Afterwards we will also follow up the other main steps in St.meld. No 9, with improvements both in the composition of interventions and social benefits. Wages and salaries subsidies for potential disadvantages are another measure that also goes too far from the next year. But first of all, the qualification programme comes for the most difficult ones. The importance of putting this in place is illustrated by the fact that 53 million have already been allocated to the current year's budget. to start the programme already this year. It is followed up by an additional 183 million. kr for next year. So the intention is to start already next month. That is why we in Stortinget have also been busy getting this case processed. As the rapporteur, I note that there is a happy cross-political uprising about the introduction of the new qualification programme. The disagreement is about the way in which this is to be financed towards the individual – as a separate social welfare scheme, or as a general increase in existing social welfare schemes. I expect representatives of the individual parties themselves to make that clear. However, as the rapporteur, there is one more thing I would like to have said, and that is specifically addressed to the opposition parties in this matter. I do not know if it is a record, because I am quite fresh at Stortinget, but from hearing on 8 October 2007 via committee treatment to legal proceedings in Odelstinget ten days later, at least it must be said to be much faster than usual. I would also like to thank both the Presidency and the Administration of Storting for their flexibility. In the political arena, we have already had an advantage in the majority parties, knowing the content of matters earlier than the opposition can do. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the opposition parties for their sporty efforts. Together, we can enjoy that it's those who are waiting for a qualification program, who are enjoying this pace to the seventh and last. The Committee held a hearing in the case on 8 October. Only three hearing bodies had signed up, but I don't think it means that the outside world seems that the qualification programme is of little importance. We had a wide-ranging consultation on the big news in the spring, where the qualification programme was duly commented on. At both hearings, we experienced broad support for the intentions of the proposal that is now to be adopted. And it may also be that the relevant hearing bodies are satisfied with the way in which the Government has handled the input to the work on the proposition. The disagreement that was also revolved around there, as in the setting here today, about the corresponding social benefits and the way they are designed. But largely there has been agreement on this as well. So back to the matter itself. Thus, the qualification programme is an innovation in Norwegian social policy. In his declaration of accession, Jens Stoltenberg said: ‘There shall be no poverty in the richest country in the world. The government will present a comprehensive plan to eradicate poverty in Norway. We will bring more people back to work, so that more people can live on their own income. We will improve economic benefits for people living in poverty." It's an ambitious project. In the Political Quarter of P2 today early I heard Christian People's Party Hans Olav Syversen say: ‘It’s been a very long time since I’ve heard anyone from the government parties talk about abolishing poverty.’ [[...]] If, for example, Hans Olav Syversen. listen to the debate now on his television in the office, he gets to hear it again: ‘There shall be no poverty in the richest country in the world’. The Qualification Programme shall contribute to this for the benefit of the poor, but also for the benefit of society. The statistics show that we need labour. Every month there are more vacancies than there are registered unemployed. The number is almost double. We import labour as never before, unemployment continues to fall, the amount of part-time goes down, but still too many people are outside, and that's what you want. The qualification programme shall provide them with an opportunity. So they're the ones that have no rights today. These are people who have been throwing balls for too long between different public offices, who didn't quite know what to do with them, and where to put them. Now it's one NAV office, and they're getting a new important tool. Persons shall have a thorough performance assessment and shall have close and coordinated assistance in the implementation of the qualification programme. The programme shall be adapted to the individual. This means flexibility in the composition of measures, both at work and others, such as: health care, training, motivation and mastering — the latter is not least important. You have to follow the full-time programme as a job. It lasts for one year, with the possibility of extension if necessary. An individual plan shall be created if the participant so wishes. And in return for willingness to work, the participant gets an increased benefit of 2 G. It should pay to do so, as well as supplements such as: child allowances and child allowances shall not result in shortening the amount of the benefit. Participants shall be entitled to any child allowance and shall qualify for housing support, which shall not shorten. It's worth working. Up to 50 pst. the position may be combined with continued participation in the programme, with curtailment in relation to hours. Taxes are payable as in the case of a regular job, and pension points are earned. So finally, I started by saying that combating poverty is not just about more money, it's also about doing the right things. We feel confident that the qualification programme is the right way to go, but there is still an important point – to achieve results that really bountiful. The importance of getting good results quickly is also underlined by the fact that the Government starts a follow-up evaluation of the programme immediately upon the implementation of the programme. This will speed up results and the possible need for adjustments and adjustments along the way. It will benefit the programme participants. It benefits society. So, after the decision today, the most difficult implementation remains. We need to follow the results closely through the evaluation. The joy is that the programme is immediately available in 135 municipalities, in the next year in 160 to, and from 2009 to 2010, in a further 160 municipalities. It is a major and important reform, a new chance for an estimated 30,000 people today who are among the most difficult. They really deserve to be seen, it's about the ethical code of society. The community will also benefit from seeing them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e109	The Progress Party supports the Government's proposal for a qualification programme. We also think it makes sense to set up a qualification programme, and there is a broad consensus in the UK that the qualification programme is important in order to help long-term social welfare beneficiaries out of their everyday life with social assistance. At the same time, the Progress Party could have wished that the programme had been targeted and covered far more than it was envisaged. We would have liked the qualification programme to cover all beneficiaries of social assistance, so that everyone had a thorough assessment as a basis for a plan and close follow-up in relation to it. However, the Progress Party considers that all those dependent on economic social assistance should be entitled to assistance and guidance in order to get into profitable work, activation or training, or be transferred to permanent social security benefits if rehabilitation is not feasible. There can be no objective of what we have seen recently, that there are some social welfare recipients who have economic social assistance as their main source of income, and who live on that year out and years in. It is then important to have them cleared and to find out whether they should be transferred to other benefits. The party to the progress is not satisfied with the six-month deadline set by the majority from the date of application to the implementation of the individual programme. In this context, the Progress Party, together with the Right and Left, points out that the deadline should be set at three months. So to the qualification support. Although the Progress Party agrees with the programme, we do not agree that the programme should be linked to a grant. We believe that we should have developed the social benefits we have in today's social security system to help people out, even when they're going into an activation program to get to work. When we look at the amount of social benefits it adds up to, it won't help a lot. When the Government itself says that there are long-term beneficiaries who do not have other benefits, from popular or other benefits, who are entitled to participate in the qualification programme – persons who thus have financial social assistance as their main source of income – the statistics for 2006 show that there are 75,650 persons eligible for the qualification programme. If you say that the duration is one year, and that they're going to get 2 G, you're going to help with the funds made available to the government budget this year, only 1,730 people. It's about 2.3 pst. of all those entitled to the programme, and I do not think that is a good measure to help very many. In 2007, we have 110 NAV offices. It is being added to put in place 140 new offices in 2008. By the end of 2008, we will have 250 NAV offices. That means that the 230 million made available can help seven people per day. NAV Office. There aren't many of them. The Progress Party believes that the new social benefits will in many ways lead to an A and B team of social welfare recipients, which will make those who may need the most help become those who still have to live unworthy lives on small social welfare benefits. We record that this is a view that has also been addressed by the FFO, not only in the last hearing, but also when we had hearings in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007. We think it is important to listen to such a large organization, which has so many different members with different needs. That is why we have also taken it upon ourselves when we dealt with St.meld. No 9, and not least when we deal with this amendment. We are therefore in favour of the qualification programme, but against the qualification aid. I'm dealing with the minority proposals that are set out in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e131	The representative Robert Eriksson has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e134	The President-in-Office began his speech by boasting massively of the Government's poverty effort. There's little reason for that. But leave it. Let me just say that very many of those who had the greatest expectations of government policy in this area have reason to be very disappointed. So we're going to get back to that in budgetary terms. The right has always been very clear that we support the intention and the idea behind the qualification programme. We believe it is positive that there is now an offer of qualification to work for people who today have little connection to the labour market and who are quite far from working life. We support the qualification programme because we believe it is important and right to make a commitment with measures for those who need it in order to get into work and perhaps eventually become self-held. Nevertheless, when the government parties in this matter so strongly emphasise that the qualification programme is such an important part of the government’s fight against poverty, I have to issue a small warning, not because we are opposed to the qualification programme, but because I think there may be reason to have a little more sober expectations about what problems it can solve, because it cannot be so – I think, unfortunately – that one measure can be the answer to all the problems and challenges in the poverty debate. I think we can recognise that and agree on that. That's why I think you should be a little bit careful to represent it as maybe a main point. At least sometimes it seems that it is kind of being oversold a little bit by the Government. In the magazine Velferd, edition 6/2007, which came out a while ago, researcher Axel West Pedersen of the research institute NOVA says that it is considered that there should be some expectations of the results of the qualification programme: ‘It’s positive to spend resources getting people to work. But I don't think you'll get a large share of the social welfare recipients working through such a program. There will hardly be any significant rise in work to combat poverty.’ I'm not saying this to be tired or wretched or to try to pretend that we're against the qualification program, because we're in no way. We have faith in this, and we're going to contribute as much as we can to making it a success. But it doesn't go beyond that range, to say it that way. Economic social assistance is initially intended to be a welfare scheme designed to ensure the necessary costs of living over a limited period of time. The fact that there are people who have lived with economic social assistance as the main source of income for years actually seems to me to be a failure statement in welfare policy, and that is not in line with the purpose of the Social Services Act either. It is probably a part that forgets in this debate. I have to give the Council of State credit for being so clear at this point in the public debate, because I think it is necessary to say very clearly that this is not the case. It's a system failure that we can't actually live with. I believe that everyone who receives financial social assistance will receive a job skills assessment, regardless of whether or not an applicant for a place on the qualification programme. This should be a basic condition of the system that facilitates further assistance, either in the form of simple assistance, a qualification programme or a transfer to a social security service. Those receiving social assistance who are expected to return to work on their own or with simple assistance shall meet with an expectation of activity and work during the period during which they are receiving social benefits, without triggering any increase in the amount of benefits. Those who, for various reasons, are not expected to have any chance of returning to work will receive an appropriate activity offer and a social security benefit from which it is possible to live. I see that time is running out, so I might get back to the remaining points, but just refer to the minority proposals that we have promoted in the vote, along with the Progress Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e156	First of all, I would also like to join in thanking the Committee and the bodies of the Storting, who have made sure that we have an important law dealt with quickly. Then I would also say that there should be no poverty in one of the richest countries in the world. That fight is important in the future, and qualification programmes and benefits are one of the important and correct measures to achieve such an objective. It is such that this program and this benefit will contribute to many things. It is intended to help more people get into work, but it should also help to ensure that they have an economic security for a period of time, so that they can perhaps get into an activity that makes life work better. The goal is much wider than that only work is in focus, but it's important. What we know is that many of those who today are on social welfare, and are without a job, need quite a long time to build up not only the skills needed in the labour market, but they need time and help to build up their health, and they need time to build up the mastering and maritime life that is necessary for working in everyday life, and not least in the workplace. Therefore, it is important that work on the qualification programme is based on knowledge of what actually works. The Oslo College has conducted a study on those who have previously been subject to the Action Plan on Poverty and the labour-oriented measures that have been there. The findings show very clearly that those who are on long-term social assistance are sicker than many of those who are on disability today. This means that one of the results of implementing the NAV reform, with overall meeting the population, and the result of the qualification programme will be that several of those who are actually going to have a disability benefit will get it. It's positive, because it's just there that those who are disabled and unable to work should be able to have a benefit that's safe and that's what you can live with. There has been a lot of discussion about the deadline to get started. I would like to stress that the whole committee believes that we should get started as soon as possible. But I would like to point out the experience, among other things. from a project which has also included long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, namely the SAVIS project, which has been carried out in Hedmark and Uppland. One of the experiences of the evaluation there was just that the period between the introduction of people into this programme and the clarification of what was the right measure, sewn together in the right way, was absolutely crucial – that is, that you spent enough time on it and got it done in a good way, so that those who entered this course would actually be able to do it. I think it's very important to get started as early as possible, but the most important thing is that the content of the qualification programme is properly structured and of such quality that it actually contributes to that promise in everyday life as it's supposed to be. So there's a discussion here about introducing an A and a B layer. We also had that discussion when we discussed the Storing Message. I'm a little surprised that those who now see that we're making a big deal for some people think it's worse than being able to make a promise at the same time for everyone – that is, it's much better that everyone on site rests. I would also like to remind you that in last year's budget, we increased social assistance by 5 pst. plus price rise, was the Progress Party, which today strongly advocates that this is not good enough, against it. It is quite a long way to go before we see that that party has a context in its poverty policy. In addition to cutting them violently in the apparatus that is just about to help people who are now going into the qualification programme, namely NAV, and they have also removed huge sums of what needs to be done, right at this group that is now going to help those who can get into work into work. In implementing a systematic and quality working line, this government is well ahead of schedule.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e175	It is a paradox that, while Norway is going down, almost one third of the working-age population is out of work. Two days ago I had a meeting with the Nymo Mechanical Workshop in Grimstad, which has to say no to the job because they lack 50 employees. This shows the need to step up efforts towards people with weak links to the labour market. It is important for businesses, but it is most important for individuals. It's about being part of a community, building social networks, doing itself and being able to use their resources. It's simply the quality of life it's about. We also know that the job opportunity is the safest and most effective way out of poverty. The Christian People's Party supports all good measures that can lead to this. We think it is very positive with the NAV reform's guiding idea that attention is now being shifted from having a focus on limitations to looking at the individual's possibilities, which one is able to master. We support that efforts should be directed towards reducing social security costs and increasing the number of people at work. At the same time, we must not lose focus on the fact that someone will never be able to master a job. However, they shall not become secondary citizens in meeting with the welfare management. For them, it is important that they do not become wasteballs between support schemes, but get a quick clarification that leads to a predictable and good social security that can give them a decent life. Many in this group will need medical rehabilitation to master their daily lives. The Christian People's Party supports the purpose of the qualification programme. It is intended for persons considered to have an opportunity to get into work, provided that close and binding assistance and follow-up from the local NAV Office are provided. Municipalities that have established a NAV office are now required to offer the programme. For people who have been dependent on social assistance for a long time and do not live in such a municipality, it may mean that they can wait up to three years with ‘standing up in the morning’. I hope the phase-in goes quickly, so that as much as possible can try. For those who become participants now, there shall be an activity requirement. The Social Services Act has previously opened up the use of conditions related to economic social assistance, but few have used it because of lack of access to relevant work tasks and lack of resources for follow-up. The NAV offices shall now be allowed a period of six months from the date of adoption of the decision on the qualification programme until the programme is implemented. The Christian People’s Party understands that long waiting can lead to a decrease in motivation. At the same time, it is important that you have enough time to find a high-quality offer and adapt it to the individual. We consider the deadline to be a maximum period. It shall not take longer than is necessary in the individual case, preferably less than both six and three months. Parts of the target population belong to the poorest in society, who strive with their lives. For some, the rehabilitation of working life will take a long time. The programme may be extended beyond two years, subject to specific assessment. I think that is absolutely necessary if we are to succeed. Many people in the target group are also struggling with large debts. It is important that they are assisted in debt advisory and debt restructuring, as recommended by the Council of State in its letter to the Committee. The qualification programme and qualification support shall be evaluated on an ongoing basis. The critics have suggested that there is not so much left of the support when you have to pay taxes, electricity and rent. Perhaps more will still need complementary social assistance. The Christian People's Party will point out that participants drop out of need testing and may also have child allowances, child welfare and housing support. It is important to follow developments closely, so that one reaches the goal of an active and independent life. Finally, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for his good words to us in the opposition. The representative himself has contributed to a common and good result, for the benefit of users.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e196	The red-green government celebrated two birthdays yesterday. We in the immediate family are well pleased with the development of the child. I also see that the nocturnal commentators in the press show that we have succeeded so far, but much remains. Many point out that offensive poverty-reduction measures still need to be provided in order for the Soria Moria objectives of eradicating poverty to be a believer. In the Soria Moria declaration, after each famous objective, it is expressed as follows: ‘The government will pursue a policy to reduce the disparities in society. We will eliminate poverty by strengthening public security networks and by providing the opportunity to return to active work." Today, we are dealing with a central issue that shows that we in the government parties do not believe we have completed our poverty campaign at the end of the race. We still have two years left, and we haven't calmed down with the efforts that have been made so far. A lot remains! The changes in the Social Services Act on the introduction of a new qualification programme and associated qualification support for people with disabilities are a very important milestone in a targeted work to eradicate poverty. It will cost to implement this program, a lot of money! This year's budget is 53 million. kr, and the further increase next year is SEK 183 million. kr – if the budget goes through according to assumptions. But this is just the first paragraph of the bet that is to be completed by 2010, and this is money that is added to what is already in municipal social support. This is a heavy economic effort, and it will really mean a difference. The qualification programme and associated qualification support is not a checkbook welfare programme. We have to do more than give money. This is a reform in which the state and the municipality really put their big stakes to the test through a new work and welfare management. This is a bet that will give NAV offices major challenges. Through the qualification programme, employees of the municipal social service, together with government employees in the labour market and social security system, shall pool their competences in response to the most difficult situations in society: those with substantially reduced working and income capacity and no or very limited living benefits, as described in the description. These persons shall leave the ranks of the social office and enter a motivational, mastering and training programme in which time can be devoted to both health care, training and qualifications for the workplace. There is a broad consensus today on the establishment of a qualification programme with the right to qualification support, but the Progress Party stands out. They believe that the targeted effort to take the most out of a life as a social welfare beneficiary and into a life situation where more people are going to work does not need to contain qualification support, and they are afraid that we are developing an A and a B team. I am very afraid that if the Progress Party had been helped to remove the qualification support from the qualification programme, we would not have achieved our objectives. Then we would not have had the motivation and the guarantee of income over time that would make this interesting to go into, and which would be an important motivation for us to get more out of social assistance and over into other benefits, first and foremost to work. But this is not the only thing we should do for those in the social welfare queues. It is not that, with the qualification programme, we have calmed down that everything called action to address poverty and to have targeted activity related to those receiving social assistance today is now over. This is an important instrument in this context. But it is clear that, in the future, we will also have to look at other measures on how to achieve a more sustainable income hedge for those in this group who need it. Many of the beneficiaries of social assistance are short-term recipients who will leave social assistance by their own means after a few months; others are recipients who receive social assistance in addition to social security, and who have this as part of their income protection, but one will also find long-term beneficiaries who do not have the prerequisites to benefit from the qualification programme. The challenge for NAV will then be that a more targeted effort will be made by the municipal social-security consultants and the social-security office to obtain a faster and more effective assessment of their social-security coverage. So the qualification programme is one important step forward, but it is certainly not the last thing this government should do to promote its efforts to eradicate poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e218	Let me start with one of the same things that the rapporteur also said, namely, by thanking for a very good cooperation in getting the matter dealt with in Odelstinget today. I understand that it will be added to the week, so that it will be possible for us to implement the law that we are planning, from 1 November. It has been important for us to get started this year, so that many municipalities get a whole year next year. It's not obvious that the opposition is going to help us get this started. I need to thank you for that, and that thank you also goes to the Presidency and the Administration of Storting. Then it is also important for me to say that I fully agree with those who say that this is one contribution to the fight against poverty, not the only contribution or the most important contribution. The main contribution to combating poverty is the whole, all the measures, the sum of the measures, the sum of what we do. In this way, the qualification programme is an important factor in establishing that sum. Now there is full pressure on the implementation of the NAV reform, the great organisational grip, with a lot of offices until next year. EUR 1.3 billion is used to implement the NAV reform in 2008. Then we will establish the permanent wage subsidy as a scheme in all the counties of the country. We are now working intensively to remove the link between income protection and measures – that is, regardless of the kind of income insurance you have, you should be entitled to all the measures at the NAV office. It is a major and important step, which is also important for the qualification programme. It's there, among other things. The representative, Eriksson, is mistaken when he does not take into account that, with regard to the measures that are now included in the qualification programme, these can be accessed through the NAV Office when we remove the link between income protection and measures. Then we are also working intensively with the consultation draft for the new temporary income protection scheme, which will be consulted this autumn, with a view to introducing the new temporary income protection scheme in 2009. All this is about people letting go from office to office. We're going to be able to tailor actions and offers based on people's needs, not on the needs of the schemes. We're going to spend time and effort helping users, not managing the offices and schemes. So now we get the qualification programme as one important contribution. I want to say that I believe that one of the most embarrassing things about the Norwegian welfare state is that we have tens of thousands who every day live by economic social assistance. As the representative Engeset was inside, we never meant that social assistance should work that way. It's supposed to be help over a knee. It shall be the contribution that is an additional safety net when other things have not captured it. When there is an income hedge in progress over the year, there will be errors. That is why it is so important that we now have a programme aimed at those who live by economic social assistance, in order at least to take them out of a situation where they live by economic social assistance over time. So I hope and believe that a lot of these can get into work. If we do this right, if we make it work, if we both make demands and show roughness, we can get a lot of these into work. But this is also the case, as Andersen's representative was in his post, that for many, the way out of the qualification programme could be lasting social security. Then you're told that it's not a work capacity, and it could be going over to lasting social security, it could be going over to school and education, it could be a permanent wage subsidy as a scheme, where you go from the qualification programme to getting sustainable wage subsidies and such few jobs. There may be many ways out of the qualification programme, but the road should not be: continue to live on social assistance. It is a very important contribution to the fight against poverty – one important contribution together with a number of others in targeted efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e237	The Christian People's Party supports the stronger focus of the Government on the line of work. It's important that someone uses the resources that we're all in possession of. At the same time, we know that someone will fall outside. The Christian People's Party is concerned that this group receives as rapid clarification, follow-up and not least medical rehabilitation as the first group. There must not be first- and second-class citizens in our country. No one shall stand on the ground resting, as the chairman of the Committee indicated that she accepted. Can the Council assure me that the NAV offices will be at least equally focused on this group in the further work on welfare reform, so that we do not get a distinction in the welfare offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e244	The ideology behind the NAV reform is that employees in the NAV office should not focus on what people live by – whether they have rehabilitation money, recruitment money, daily allowance, social assistance or qualification program. The focus shouldn't be on what people have of income insurance, which I tried to say in my post. The focus should be on what people need for help, either to get to work or to clarify a lasting income hedge outside the workplace. We also need to train ourselves not to be so very concerned about what is the income security, but about how we are going to make the best possible offers and through a work experience assessment determine whether people should have measures to get into work or to get into sustainable social security benefits. So I can confirm that the qualification program in no way means that we're going to deprioritise others. There shall be no prioritisation at all. It's people's needs to set the priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e251	I am very pleased with what the Council of State said at the end of its article. I think that we all agree very much that economic social assistance should be a measure to help people over a difficult knee and not be a long-term income hedge. So once again, when you run the qualification programme with a qualification grant, it'll be a good part that goes on economic social assistance, which doesn't come under those guidelines and into the programme. Then I have a little follow-up, as the representative Woie Duesund also said: does the Council of State not see that this can lead – as the FFO has also pointed out – to an A and a B team among the social welfare recipients? And in what way will the Council of State ensure that those who fall outside the programme are cared for in the same way as those within the programme in terms of obtaining an assessment, so that they get over the right performance in a timely manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e258	No, I don't have that concern, because the target audience for the qualification programme is people who have social assistance as their main income protection. When social assistance has been provided as a means of securing income over a period of time, the target population is eligible for the qualification programme. Then the way forward in the individual's life is either qualification and work, or clarification of lasting social security benefits. If we can make that system work the way I think we should, we'll get a clear distinction between those who receive social assistance as a significant income hedge over time, and those who only need help for a period of time. There will be many who have jobs, but who do not have enough for a period of time, and who then need help over a knee. They are in a completely different category than those who live by social assistance for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e263	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e268	Now I have promised the representative Martin Engeset that I will not start a long debate, because he will reach a train. I'll try to keep that promise. But I needed to comment on some of the calculations for the Progress Party, because there are so many factors that the Progress Party doesn't include in the calculations. I'm starting at the end that's about the one minority proposal, where the minority wants job performance assessment to be done for all recipients of social assistance. There is, in principle, nothing in the way of this, and in principle there is nothing wrong with it in today's legislation, and the new tools developed in the Employment and Welfare Act, to be used by the NAV Office, are in principle open to all, but it is therefore after an assessment of who needs it or not. We must not do any organizational work – that many are going through a difficult bureaucratic grinder, if they are not deemed to need it. When the Progress Party also wants the qualification programme to cover all beneficiaries of social assistance, it is in theory that it can do so. It assumes that they are of working age. It assumes that they may benefit from a programme. It is not that one has to go and wait, be a long-term social welfare beneficiary for a few years, before considering a qualification programme. You can if you don't have rights or just have small rights in social security. We have an A and a B team today. The A team are the ones on social security benefits, and the B team is the ones on social assistance without action. If we look at the calculations, we see that if you had split the money into the budget for this year in relation to the amount of the social benefits of NOK 133 000 and divided it per. municipality, there would have been room to start with 17 people in each municipality now for the two months that are left this year. Until next year the 160 municipalities are not ready from 1 January. They come successively over quarter by quarter. Moreover, social assistance resources are currently being used in municipalities, and it is not provided that there are funds to be mobilised. So finally, I could just imagine saying that here too, when we develop the program and find the good measures, we must be able to think of qualification with earnings. I was as late as on Tuesday visiting Velle Entwicklung down in Westfold, which is an enterprise that is engaged in refurbishment. But they're actually reorientating earnings, and they're not dependent on the money that comes from the social security system at all. They hire people for auxiliary workers' wages, people who are going out into a reintroduction, pay them, and start them on a vocational training course based on the fact that everyone is going to have a letter on the day they leave that company. They have no own products. They only take on business assignments around the world, and business is in line to attract them as soon as the exam is taken. They run four kindergartens and have provided Stokke municipality with everything they need from child and youth workers to kindergartens and SFOs, and are now trying to run a hospital ward and provide the municipalities in the area with skilled workers for the care services. So it's kind of creative to think.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e286	So does the President. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e296	Odelstinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e303	In the course of the debate, three sales have been put forward. It's proposal No I, by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the right and left. 2 and 3, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The size refers to the proposed change in § 5A-1, paragraph. a, whether the assessment of performance and asks the Government to ensure that everyone receiving financial social assistance is subject to such an assessment, so that an early stage of a social welfare programme can put in place appropriate measures to help people to be self-held.» The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e369	It is quoted first above I, § 5-9, § 5A-1, first and fourth paragraphs, as well as § 5A-1, second paragraph, letters a and b.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e379	The second paragraph of point (c) of Section 5A-1 and the third paragraph of Section 5A-1 are added. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e393	It will then be votered over sections 5A-2 and 5A-4. We'll get back to Section 5A-3 in a minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e434	It will then be voted on Section 5A-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e447	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 5A-3 is replaced by the following:The Community shall organise and implement a qualification programme for persons covered by the provisions of Sections 5A-1 and 5A-2 from the date of the qualification programme, but not later than three months after the date of the application for participation.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e481	Section 5A-5, first sentence, contains an alternative proposal, proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 5A-5, first sentence, is replaced by the following:In order to participate in the qualification programme, it is assumed that participants have undertaken to follow an individual plan.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e567	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e678	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18-lower.ana.ud1014e688	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
