ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e67	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 278]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e83	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The first speaker is Sonja Irene Sjøli – for the rapporteur, Inge Wohnning, who is a member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e94	Since 1997, the Norwegian patient register has been established as an unidentified register with the Consent of the Data Protection Authority. The purpose of the register is to provide the basis for the administration, management and financing of the specialist health service. In Ot.prp. No 49 for 2005-2006 the Government proposes that the Norwegian patient register be made person-identifiable. The objectives of the register are proposed to be extended so that the register can be used for medical and health research. In addition, disease and quality records shall be based. It is pointed out by the Government that the current register cannot satisfactorily fulfil these objectives because it is not possible to follow the individual patient through the course of treatment, since the RE is not a ‘patient’ but ‘event’ of the specialist healthcare service. An overall committee supports the Government’s assessment — that it is appropriate to be able to follow patient courses, in order to facilitate better research and quality assurance of health services. This will provide a basis for the development of a better patient offer. However, the present proposal also raises fundamental questions about how to balance the interests of privacy with the need to promote research and development in the health sector. There is a clear dividing line between the government parties and the opposition on how stringent we are to impose on the protection of sensitive data protection in the new health record. The majority of the Committee is based on the fact that health information is by its nature sensitive and that this implies that the protection of privacy must be given particular attention in relation to the processing of such data. The government’s proposal for a person-identifiable register without consent means that large amounts of sensitive information are collected in one place, without patients having the opportunity to reserve themselves against this registration. As the majority sees it, the Ministry's proposal for a register form involves a significant deterioration in the privacy of individual patients, while at the same time a collective risk of misuse of very sensitive information. The majority of the Committee considers that the fact that more people will have access to sensitive health information means, in itself, that patients’ needs for discretion are less met, irrespective of the rules on professional secrecy. We believe that this is problematic, especially in the light of the fact that patients are not given the opportunity to reserve themselves against registration. While the social benefits of a person-specific register are obvious, the majority consider that the personal disadvantages are significant. The right has received support from the other opposition parties in the demand for external encryption of patients' identity in the new health registry, and we are pleased about that. This will mean that no one will have access to encrypted identity and the actual identity of the patients. Such a solution would better ensure the protection of individual requirements for the protection of sensitive information while at the same time reducing the risk of collective misuse of information. Both the Swedish Data Protection Authority, the Swedish Health Authority, the Norwegian Medical Association, the National Centre for Telemedicine, the National Association for Cardiology and Pulmonary Diseases and the Joint Organisation of the Disabled also advocate external encryption of privacy and support the majority of the Committee. The external encryption requirement is in addition to the other security measures proposed by the Government. The majority of the Committee has argued that it is possible to follow a patient’s course even through external encryption, but that this is somewhat more demanding and implies that only healthcare institutions can contact the patient. The disadvantages this brings to researchers will clearly be compensated by better privacy. The Government Parties state in the vote that the majority's proposal implies the establishment of a new register form. This can hardly be an argument against an external encryption scheme. It is the policy that must preside over legislation and not the other way around. Several times, at the latest in the Great Britain debate before today, the Government has pointed out that the previous government sent out a draft consultation in line with what they are now proposing. And that's right. However, contrary to current government parties, the opposition has been willing to listen and to adjust the law to the serious objections raised in the interests of privacy, among others. from the bodies that I mentioned earlier in my article. When the government now proposes to collect large amounts of sensitive information in person-identifiable form, without the patient having the opportunity to reserve himself against this, we believe it is alarming that one is not willing to ensure the best possible protection of privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e115	I'm not going to make any comment, because the debate went into the Stortinget earlier today on a similar matter. I'm just going to explain that the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are promoting proposals for amending the legal text. We believe that the legal text must reflect the fact that our person-identifiable records are internally encrypted, and therefore propose an alternative legislative wording to the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e120	The representative, Rune J. Skjellera, has taken up the suggestion he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e123	I'm not going to contribute to doing this any longer than necessary, but just saying that as the Government and government parties see it, we believe that the de-identifiable register we have today cannot meet the need to manage and manage healthcare properly. The reason for this is, as was also seen in the debate in Stortinget, that we cannot follow the individual patient through the course of treatment in such a register. It is an overall task for the Government to ensure that the health of the population is best cared for. When this is the case that the register we have today does not provide sufficient information on the extent to which healthcare is able to ensure good access for the whole population to high-quality healthcare, we believe that we need to do something about it. Like everyone, we believe that good quality treatment is very important for people to have confidence in health care. Then it's a problem that we lack an overview of the morbidity of the population. I'll just mention one example to illustrate it: Heart and car diseases are, as we know, the most common cause of death in Norway. But we don't know how many people get heart attacks every year, how many survive, and if the survival rate is the same for women and men, for example. Unfortunately, the lack of such data applies to a large number of diseases. One important exception is cancer, through the Cancer Register, as known. This is the background for proposing Norwegian patient registry in the form that we do. Then we get better data and opportunities to research more, and balance it against the other important consideration, namely privacy. But the whole purpose of this is to be able to give patients a better patient offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e134	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 280]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e150	The Economic and Social Committee has examined Ot.prp. No 85 for 2005-2006, amending the Law on seafarers. The Committee has noted that the main issue is the introduction of established rules on non-discrimination at work, to which we are obliged by EU law and which have also been implemented in other Norwegian labour law legislation. The Committee considers it natural that these amendments are also included in the Maritime Act. Furthermore, the Committee has had no other comments on the Government’s proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e159	The present legislative proposal is, in fact, a follow-up to the EU directive on equal treatment for men and women at work and on information and consultation with workers. In Norwegian law, these directives have previously been included in the Working Environment Act, so now the Maritime Act is under way. The Maritime Act does not currently have provisions that explicitly prohibit discrimination in the labour market. The government proposes that two new chapters be introduced into the law. They deal with equal treatment in the labour market and the prohibition of discrimination and information and consultation with business representatives. Thus, the legislative proposal prohibits direct and indirect discrimination on the grounds of political views, membership of an employee’s organisation, sexual orientation, disability or age. In addition, rules are provided on information and consultation for use in ships registered in the Norwegian Ordinary Ship Register. The law covers all aspects of employment at sea — from the publication of a post until the vacancy ceases to exist. Consequently, the prohibition of discrimination will also apply to matters such as: promotion and establishment of pay and working conditions. However, the law cannot be applied to differences arising between employees due to membership of an employee organisation, i.e. as a result of collective pay and working conditions. Therefore, in the fight against social disparities in Norwegian and, to the extent, also in international shipping, the proposed amendments to the Maritime Act have a relatively limited impact. Obviously, there has to be other instruments here. Seafarers' wage and working conditions are unfortunately a competitive factor in today's shipping. As the importance of compensation of employees for the operation of ships, at least in some areas, becomes smaller, and the knowledge and competence requirements will increase — and the fact that more and more countries join the ILO legislation in this area — the social conditions of seafarers will hopefully also be settled gradually. However, in Norwegian shipping, Norwegian domestic shipping, we are facing a very acute situation where Norwegian ships with Norwegian pay and working conditions are increasingly facing competition from foreign ships with completely different pay and working conditions. Norsk Sjømannsförbund sees no solution to this but that the law on the publication of collective agreements must also be applicable in Norwegian territorial waters. With an increasing traffic between Norwegian ports, and as far as the Norwegian base, of foreign ships with foreign crews, this is a threat that we have to take seriously in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e174	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e191	The Economic and Social Committee has examined Ot.prp. No 87 for 2005-2006 on the Law on Safe Seas. The Committee has noted that this proposal for a law is a scrapping-up of existing legislation which has been partially outdated and has carried out a good and necessary clean-up in this legislation. This is a model that the Government should also consider applying to other legislation that needs revision. The matter is unanimous on the part of the Economic and Social Committee. However, I would like to point out the following: the bill sets out a comprehensive regulatory framework. I would like to ask the Government to be careful to create an overly comprehensive regulatory body, so that the legislation is not too complicated for them to deal with, and for those businesses that are going to comply with this law. In addition, I would like to point out that during the examination, the Committee has received an enquiry from the Norwegian Association for the Protection of Vessels, NFF, which is concerned that the fleet of protected vessels will have problems complying with such a modernised legislation in areas such as: crew training and construction requirements. I would ask the Government to take this recording into account when preparing the regulations relating to the law, so that those who are engaged in good and necessary ship protection do not suffer from the introduction of a new law in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e207	Serious shipping accidents in the Mediterranean, the English Channel and, in fact, also off our own coast underline the importance of getting better international maritime safety legislation. Like the accident of the cargo ship «Server» outside Fedje on 12 January, several others have recently been killed as a result of serious damage to marine life and the environment. Accidents are reminders that maritime safety work requires continuous efforts both nationally and internationally. Stronger requirements for technology, equipment, safety, environment, knowledge and competence are necessary in a globalised industry where high maritime safety and environmental requirements have been allowed to give way to what I would call purely profit-thinking. I am pleased that the Norwegian authorities through the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) have gone ahead with increasing safety and environmental requirements, and that this laborious work is gradually also producing results. Then it would just be missing if we didn't own our own home. I am therefore pleased that we now have a modern and forward-looking law on ship safety. It will be a very good tool for better maritime safety. In fact, the law on ship safety is the most comprehensive legislative reform we have had in the maritime sector for many years. The Ship Safety Act is not just an update of a 100-year law. The aim has been to design a law that reduces the risk of sea-going navigation to a minimum and that ships appear to be safe workplaces. The proposal for a law promoted by the Government, and which we are now dealing with, will apply from a ship being projected to being scrapped. But the main change in the present bill is that the primary responsibility for safety and the environment is transferred from the master to the shipping company. So the primary responsibility for complying with the law is placed with the company. Individuals in the shipping company and the shipping company as undertakings will be those who can be penalised primarily in the event of an infringement of the law. In the past, this responsibility has been with the master and it has proved difficult to place shipping companies in charge of accidents and accidents. Therefore, the amendment of the legislation contributes to an effective system of sanctions, with periodic penalty payments and withdrawal of certificates as new forms of reaction. At the same time, a quality assurance system is now required for all shipping companies and ships. Shipowners, such as other terrestrial establishments, shall establish plans, instructions and checklists for important shipboard operations – from standby, maintenance, manning and training for environmental protection. Work on a quality assurance system must be anchored in the top management of the companies. The aim is for shipping companies to develop a good and systematic safety culture at all stages, both on land and on ships. This is important in order to enhance maritime safety. Finally, let me stress that a new law requires follow-up. I assume that the control bodies are allocated enough resources to follow the law and its intentions. The Directorate for Maritime Affairs is the administrative and administrative body for the work on safety at sea. The Executive Board shall exercise both direct and overall control. In recent years, activities have been distorted towards overall control. A large part of the work on the supervision of ships is otherwise entrusted to classification societies. Developments in shipping underline the need for enhanced port State control. This has not least been the concern of seafarers’ organisations. Ships which do not comply with international safety requirements should simply be hatched and penalised. I refer in particular to the ILO Conventions on the Working Conditions of Seafarers. Unfortunately, we have seen enough examples of shipping companies breaking the ILO Conventions, and foreign seafarers being offered pay and working conditions that are far from acceptable. I remind you that the working environment of seafarers is subject to port State control, in the same way as technical requirements for the ship and its certificate. It is important that this is now followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e222	I, as the previous speaker, too, will underline the great change here. What is now the most important change in the law is that the primary responsibility for complying with the law is placed with the shipping company. Much of the responsibility is then transferred from the master to the shipping company. I think that is a very important clarification and clarification in the law. Shipowners must draw up plans, instructions and checklists for all activities to be carried on board a boat and it is important that such responsibility is placed in the right place in a company or company and that quality assurance work is anchored in the company's top management. I think it is a very important clarification in the law. Following the release of this suspension, there has been a discussion of regulations that strengthen the safety and supervision of on-board arresters. There are no such provisions at present. The law on ship safety is the basis for any regulations. The discussion has arisen after a tragic incident on board one of the Color Lines ferries, where a youth was arrested. In the period he was not under supervision, he managed to take his own life. It is a very serious situation, when we know that such rules of supervision do not exist, and that the public has not put in place such rules. So what I want to stress in this case is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade must now take the initiative to assess such legislation, that legislation is being developed to ensure supervision, so that we avoid such tragic events. In this context, I would like to point out that one has carried out the same restrictions on arrest and detention on land. There are new and more stringent security procedures for the deployment of persons in police detention. A selection that has worked on the police arrest project points out that the intensified legislation has helped to prevent the loss of life. So you can probably learn a lot from the work done in connection with that project, and apply that experience also to situations on board the boats. Because it is not possible to conceal that on passenger ferries and cruise boats, where there must be a arrest – I would like to stress that it is important that there are opportunities to take persons into custody for the safety of those on board, both crew and passengers – there must also be rules, because it is often the case that those taken into custody or arrested are subject to drug abuse. It is then important that there is a regulatory framework for all shipping companies operating such activities, which meet that particular need. Such a regulation should be established. I want to ask that it be followed up by the ministry, and that of course one takes into account the input that I think we need to get from other areas of society where one has the corresponding legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e233	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 283]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e249	The Financial Committee shall promote a unanimous position in this matter. The Ministry of Finance makes several proposals in its proposal, including: proposals for: some changes to the applicable rules on the management of shares in Norwegian companiesnew rules on covered bonds to replace the rules of Chapter 2 of the Finance Act on Loan Loan Loans with Loan Loan Loans with Loan Loan Limited Amendment to the Law on real estate mediation on mutual recognition of professional qualifications in the Central Bank Act to obtain police clearance for employees and others serving Norway’s Banking Changes to the Saving Bank Act and the Business Bank Act prohibiting the Executive Director from being a member of the Board of Directors and repealing the rules on joint meetings between the Board and, respectively, the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors and the Rules on Deductive Pension Savings for Liberals The proposal also discusses some issues related to the structure of savings banks. The Financial Committee considers that the Ministry has discussed in a good manner the changes currently proposed and all proposed changes are supported by the Committee. Let me briefly mention the proposed legislative changes and clarify the comments made by the Committee in its position. The proposals made in the Proposition on AIFM registration take into account the recommendations made by a public body in NOU 2005:13. The committee recommended that the law in force, with the prohibition of the registration of the administrator of residents and access to the registration of the administrator of non-residents, be continued. These include: stressed the importance of transparency of ownership, including the benefits of direct registration for control authorities and for the company itself. In its position on covered bonds, the Financial Committee stresses that these changes are of major importance for the competitiveness of Norwegian banks by ensuring access to cheaper capital in capital markets. The price banks have to pay for this capital is very important, because more than half of the bank's loans are financed in this way. Deposits from customers are not a sufficient source of funding. Competition should be able to result in lower borrowing costs for residential loans that could reduce the rent rate for customers. Priority debt securities are a contribution to strengthening financial stability in Norway — among others. because covered bonds can serve as collateral for liquidity loans in Norway’s Bank and the liquidity risk for Norwegian banks is significantly reduced. The liquidity risk of banks is further reduced by extending their investor circle through the amendment of the law to a larger extent than now Norwegian and non-resident insurance companies, with the access to capital that they previously had to a limited extent. The Committee has also chosen to stress that it is very important that legislative changes can enter into force as soon as possible by completing and adopting the corresponding regulations by the Ministry of Finance/Government in a very short time. This was carried out by the Ministry. The proposal for mutual recognition of professional qualifications shall ensure that Norway complies with the applicable EEA obligations regarding the recognition of foreign professional qualifications related to real estate brokerage. The proposal has been in consultation, and none of the hearing bodies has taken a negative view on proposing changes to the law on real estate. For security reasons, the Bank of Norway has requested the submission of legislative proposals to provide the basis for obtaining police clearance for staff members of the Bank of Norway and others serving the Bank. The purpose of a permit to obtain a police record for persons to be employed at the Bank of Norway is primarily to prevent crime. The proposition and suspension discuss the relationship with the European Convention on Human Rights, and important considerations relating to the right to respect for private and family life have been safeguarded by the proposal promoted. Proposals are also made to prohibit the Executive Director from being a member of the Board of Directors of the Bank and to repeal the rules on joint meetings between the Governing Board and, respectively, the Board of Directors and representation. Among other things, it is added. the importance of ensuring the independence of the board from day-to-day management. The Management Board shall be able to assess the day-to-day management on an independent basis. This shall contribute to clearer responsibilities and responsibilities between the Management Board and the Executive Director. The Ministry and the Committee believe that the legislation on banks should facilitate this. In accordance with general principles of good corporate governance, the competence to appoint the Executive Director should lie with the Management Board. It is therefore proposed that the Executive Director be appointed by the Management Board. Furthermore, it is proposed that the other tasks of the joint meeting today be transferred to the board of savings banks and representation in commercial banks. The rules on deductible pension savings for freelancers are promoted on the basis that freelancers without employment appear to fall outside the current tax-advanced occupational pension scheme. The changes in the laws that are being promoted are meant to correct this relationship. It also discusses issues related to the structure of savings banks. From the summary reference can be made: ‘The savings banks have traditionally been local or regional banks for household and SME customers [[small and medium-sized enterprises]] The Committee shall, on this basis, promote the following observations in its opinion: ‘The Committee points out that the Saving Bank Act provides savings banks with different framework conditions than commercial banks. This law has helped to ensure the existence of savings banks and that they have remained in Norwegian hands, which has been important for business throughout the country, innovation and well-functioning competition in industry as a whole. The Committee points out that in Norway we now have three savings bank models [[traditional savings bank, basic fund card bank and stock savings bank]] Furthermore, reference is made to the comments and proposals made in the proposal and to the recommendation of the Committee on Budgets and, on behalf of a unanimous committee, to the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e314	Initially, I would like to say that the rapporteur has explained the matter in a neat and straightforward manner in relation to this unanimous committee position. It contains significant changes, which are important in areas such as preferential bonds, share registration, ban on the bank manager being a member of the banking board, and the liquidation of joint meetings between the board and board of savings banks and the board of directors and representatives of commercial banks. There are also several changes that at first sight may appear to be of minor importance, but which in my view are important. I want to touch some of the changes in the proposition – and the setting. One concerns the amendments to the savings bank law and the commercial bank law, that the bank manager should not be a member of the bank's board of directors. I have long supported the scheme that has so far existed, where the managing bank manager has been required to sit on the bank's board. This change is important in order to create integrity and independence in the relationship between the board and day-to-day management. In most other areas of corporate governance, this has been a well-informed principle for a long time. It also makes sense for us to wind up the old arrangement of joint meetings as a separate body between the board of savings banks and the board of directors and representatives of commercial banks. Furthermore, I think it is rational and practical that it is the board that is to employ and, in the worst case, dismissive bank managers. The second important change I want to touch is preferential bonds. The amendment opens the possibility for credit undertakings to issue covered bonds. The preferential right gives bond holders and derivatives counterparties a right to cover before other creditors, e.g. in the event of bankruptcy of the credit undertaking. On the one hand, such a scheme would allow the credit company to borrow cheaply and not least open up cheap loans to the customer or the consumer, as I would call it. The change ensures the interests of bond holders without weakening consumer protection, and that is good. The proposition also addresses issues related to the structure of savings banks and challenges facing the savings banking industry as such in the future. The proposal also mentions in particular two specific concession cases which the Ministry has dealt with and which one has to decide. The Government has chosen to await the work of the Framework Conditions Committee, which is mandated to analyse and propose any changes to the legislation applicable to structural adjustments in the savings banking industry. I think that makes sense. The setting of the Framework Conditions Committee, which has been transmitted to the Ministry, is now available. I trust that the Department will make the necessary overall assessments based on what is appropriate for a forward-looking structure in the banking industry. Questions about the savings bank structure have several principal aspects to which it is important to have an opinion. The challenges are many for savings banks in relation to both future market position, structure and framework conditions – to mention some areas. I am quite sure that today's savings bank law has helped to ensure the existence of savings banks and not least that they have remained in Norwegian hands. It has been important for business competition throughout the country. Any changes in the future must ensure that no one is in a weakened position in relation to purchases from other actors, i.e. the equal treatment of banking operators and the provision of equivalent opportunities. It is important that regulatory flexibility exists, as pointed out by the Committee’s setting up, so that banks can adapt to the market situation and not least adapt to competition from foreign actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e342	Since there is a unanimous setting at all points, I just want to attach some notes to the savings bank structure. From the autumn of 2004 to the summer of 2005, five out of six Norwegian commercial banks were purchased. Four were purchased by foreign banks and one of a Norwegian bank. This shows that the framework conditions are crucial to what is happening in the industry. A number of requests for the purchase or acquisition of savings banks were received by the credit supervision during 2005. The Committee welcomes the assessment by the Ministry of Finance that the framework conditions for savings banks should allow freedom to make a socially desirable structural adjustment, while preserving the specific nature of savings banks. The main feature of the special nature of savings banks is the form of ownership. A savings bank is a sea-lording institution, and therefore it cannot be purchased. The combination of competent management, competitive framework conditions in relation to commercial banks and the form of ownership is the reason why savings banks claim to be useful financial instruments. Regulatory regulation and associated regulations and practices for savings banks are a national issue. It is a general political recognition that countries around us do not pressure us to change the peculiarity of savings banks. The legal regulation of savings banks is therefore a national debate in Norway, as in the EU, for example. There is broad political support for ensuring DnB NOR as a Norwegian controlled bank with headquarters in Norway and not in Stockholm – this to help realise civic tasks at national level that require high capital input. Saving banks shall play a different role. The banking system is necessary and important infrastructure for individuals and businesses. Private customers and SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, are well covered by the many maritime savings banks. This contributes to healthy competition in most parts of the country. The credit supervision has a central role in banking matters, and in the two cases dealt with, the credit supervision has pointed out that the acceptance of the applications may result in major and unforeseeable changes in the savings bank structure. Therefore, in view of the challenges facing the savings banking industry, there is a need for a clearer borderline between authorised and non-authorised forms of transaction for the savings banks. An overall committee says that any changes to the law must mean that no savings bank model must be discriminated against. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the setting-up of savings banks without a master certificate in order to enable those currently competitive in the market. This results in changes in the savings bank structure as a result of its own ability to manage and operate and its own strategic choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e359	No more people have asked for the floor. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 296]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e367	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e612	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e622	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e630	During the debate, Rune J. Kjörlaaen has presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Act 18 May 2001 No 24 on health records and the processing of health data are amended as follows: the third paragraph of Section 8 up to and including the colon is replaced by the following: the names, birth numbers and other direct personal identifiers may be processed without the consent of the data subject to the extent necessary to achieve the purpose of the register, and direct personal identifiers shall be stored encrypted in the register: the third paragraph of Section 8 new paragraph. 8 is replaced by the following: 8. [[Health Register Act]] Norwegian Patient Register’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the I Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e699	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e709	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e933	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e943	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e2719	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e2729	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e3491	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-01-lower.ana.ud803e3501	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
