ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e43	The President has reason to believe that there will be a short debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e46	I'm at least going to make my contribution to it. We have had the debate on this in connection with the financial debate. I would then just like to raise the Advance Party and the Right proposal, and I would like to inform you that we will substantially support the suspension under sections 19-4 and 19-6. Then there is also a proposal under Sections 14-13 that was not promoted by an incurrency in a previous bill. And since we went against that proposal then, of course, we also go against that change now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e57	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 120]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e75	We are now dealing with changes to the law on electronic communications, and these changes are mainly motivated by the tearing developments we have had in electronic communications. In addition, it has also been seen to be necessary to amend it by having gained experience in the use of the law, both nationally and within the EEA territory. There is an overall committee that supports this odelstningsproposition. However, the Committee has found it appropriate to point out some areas. It is important that the telecommunications policy objectives of ensuring fair and forward-looking services are firmly established. The proposals for stronger supervisory instruments shall facilitate the achievement of those objectives. The data protection considerations surrounding the use of what is referred to in the proposal as ‘mobile zones’, which allow the police to establish such zones as part of the new police methods, were also addressed during the examination of the Criminal Procedures Act of 17 June 2005. These methods are very important to enable the police to effectively combat serious crime. In particular, we are talking about the new cross-border crime, which is perceived as an ever-increasing threat to society. The Committee has noted that the use of these specific mobile zones is a prerequisite for not having an unreasonable impact on frequency holders or end-users. The Committee considers that it is important that postal and telecommunications supervision should properly keep frequency holders informed about what is going on. The Committee cannot see that this amendment to the law, the right to set up mobile zones, have as negative consequences or create as serious problems as those, inter alia. has been mentioned in articles in the Evening Post. On the positive side, the Committee has noted that the amendment of the law allows for the inclusion of EU legislation on international roaming in mobile networks – that is the Norwegian translation, which the Committee considers to be good – and that this will allow us to obtain cheaper and more transparent tariffs for Norwegian mobile customers abroad and for foreign customers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e90	The changes that we are making today in the Ecooms Act on Mobile Zones have a background in police access to identify mobile phones and other communication facilities. The left is concerned that the practical use of new investigation methods must always be evaluated after a while. In this way, we can identify whether they have had the meaning foreseen and whether the interests of privacy and legal certainty have been adequately safeguarded. I am therefore pleased that, like the previous government, the Minister of Justice has previously stated that new police methods should be evaluated. I assume that the use of mobile zones will also be evaluated after a while. Can I have the Council of State's confirmation that the Government is evaluating the use of mobile zones?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e99	Let me first say that I am pleased that there is a broad political agreement in the Storting to hold on to the telecommunications policy objectives of ensuring users throughout the country good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic telecommunications services. I am also pleased that we agree that technical and market developments make some changes necessary. The Committee has stressed that the proposals to improve the means of sanctions should facilitate better achievement of the telecommunications policy objectives. This is in line with the Committee's comments on the draft budget. It stresses its plurality that, in order to facilitate further development, framework conditions and regulation in this area need to be strengthened. The change in the eco-legislation on mobile zones is necessary, because the echo-law in its current wording may be challenged in contravention of the criminal law. I am pleased that the Committee has noted that the fundamental and privacy considerations were assessed in the Law of 17 June 2005 No. 87 on changes in criminal law and police law, and that the change in the echo-law applies to the implementation of the legislative amendment to criminal law. In this case, the change in the eco-mloves is short-lived in the fact that the police are given permission to use the identification of communication facilities as a new research method through the use of frequencies that have already been given to others, mobile network providers. The establishment of a mobile zone will be an important means of preventing and combating crime. Such zones may be created by blocking or jamming traffic. This means that a signal is sent that interferes with and blocks mobile signals, or that false base stations are established that reveal their identity to mobile phones, and then take over the contact between the phone and the network provider’s base station. I have also proposed the inclusion of a legal basis allowing the police, in specific cases, to seek the governing authority, by Post and Telecommunications, the establishment and use of mobile zones for other purposes, and then of a more preventive nature. This can be e.g. be the fight against terrorism and the protection of persons who, on the basis of a threat assessment, require special protection. After the proposal, the defence and criminal services will also be given the opportunity to search for the establishment and use of mobile zones for specific purposes. For the defence, it is relevant for practice purposes. Criminal services want to be able to establish mobile zones in prisons with a high level of protection. The assessment of the impact on communication will be central to the assessment of the granting of rights. The importance of good and safe communication lies at the heart of the eco-lova. I am therefore busy that the establishment and use of mobile zones should intervene to the minimum extent possible in accordance with already given frequency privileges. In other words, the use shall cause as little harmful interference as possible and shall cause as few and short-term communication interruptions as possible to the final user. I have noticed that the media have asked questions about whether the police's use of mobile zones will affect many users in built-in areas. Given the uncertain nature of the consequences such zones will have for ecosystem and service providers and for final users, it is proposed that the police should notify the frequency management authority, again the Post and Telecommunications Authority. This shall happen as soon as possible after the frequencies given to others have been applied. I want to underline the value of this notification. Only in this way can the Postal and Telecommunications Authority obtain an image of the scope and consequences for providers and end-users. The police have pointed out that as far as they can be advised, they will use methods which at least interrupt normal communication. Of course, it is also in the interest of the police to use methods which at least show that the police are present. However, if communication were to be severely affected, the Ministry would reconsider the question. To the question from the representative Tenden, I can say that the scheme will be closely followed and evaluated. One will intervene and make changes if one sees that there are consequences that go beyond what is considered acceptable. The Ministry of Transport has sent out a proposal for a regulation on hearing. The objective is to detail rights and obligations when creating mobile zones more closely. The regulation seeks to balance the use of mobile zones so that crime prevention does not go beyond good and seamless communication. I have noted the Committee's desire to keep the frequency owners informed about the creation of mobile zones, and will therefore state that the department in the regulation, among others. suggests that the Postal and Telecommunications Authority should provide authorised key personnel with the same information as they receive from the police. I would also like to make a few comments – and I am of course pleased – that the Committee has joined the Ministry of Social Affairs' assessment of international roaming on mobile networks. In particular, the Committee emphasises that it would be positive for Norwegian consumers to include regulation of international gesticulation in the economlova and regulation. This will reduce the high prices we have seen of international roaming on mobile networks that Norwegian citizens have now paid significantly when travelling in EU or EEA countries. That's exactly what I'm saying. After the amendment of the law becomes applicable, the regulation itself, translated into Norwegian, must be annexed to the Ekom Regulation. From this point in time – which will apply from 15 January 2008 – Norwegian operators and final users will be provided with a right to the regulation, including a reduction in prices in the form of a transition to the so-called Eurotariff. I would also like to note that the Ministry of Transport has specifically taken up with the Commission that SMS prices and prices of data services should also be subject to regulation. It's not even per. Today, but I think it is positive that the text of the regulation says that one will follow price developments in these areas too. I am, as you know, busy with language usage and Norwegian language, and I think it is nice that the Committee emphasises the support that the English concept of roaming has now received a Norwegian translation in the form of ‘guesting in mobile networks’. It is important to find and use good Norwegian words where this is possible. The Committee also endorses the Ministry's work on spam and malicious software. I would like to say that we are following those developments continuously and will apply the regulation if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e135	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 121]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e143	Odelstinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e151	During the debate, the representative Kenneth Svendsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e192	Right and left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e204	The President will then vote on the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]] the second paragraph of Section 19-4 shall be deleted; the third paragraph of Section 19-4 shall be replaced by the following: A person who has reached the age of 67 years is granted an old-age pension regardless of other income earned by the pensioner. Paragraphs 19-6, second and third paragraphs are deleted.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e250	The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the paragraphs subsidiaryly, now that the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e289	It's going to be over II first and over point III three. Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it. Then it's going to be over III points 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e309	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e319	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e698	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06-lower.ana.ud2075e708	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
