ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e57	It called the deputy representative of the Rogaland County, Magnhild Eia, has a teke seat. The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e65	On behalf of the representatives of Lars Sponheim, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to propose the introduction of a registration system for lobbying in Stortinget, in the departments and in the Prime Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e70	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at noon. 16:00, until today's map finishes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e88	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by main speakers from each party group and from members of the Government be set to 10 minutes, and for other speakers to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after members of the Government. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e95	In these days, leaders in Bali are meeting to solve our time perhaps the biggest challenge, climate change. Unfortunately, everything suggests that this is no longer just a possible future threat, but already a reality. The temperature of the Earth's ladder. The ice melts, the desert spreads, and the reports of extreme weather are coming ever more frequently. Let's hope that the work in Bali will lead us closer to a new international climate agreement. Climate problems cannot be solved by a country alone, but the danger that we will all be affected if a new agreement does not come into place is great. Norway shall be a driving force behind a new international climate agreement. The government has launched perhaps the world's most ambitious climate targets. If we are to succeed in the fight against a climate of evil, this will affect everything we do, and we must also show it in our budgets. Unfortunately, everything suggests that there are the poorest countries that can have the biggest problems with a changed climate. Desertification, fleas, hurricanes and typhoons will do the most damage in countries with vulnerable economies and low standard of living. Climate change is a direct threat to the life base of many of the poorest on earth, which in turn can lead to increased unrest and conflict. Since climate change is already a reality, it is no longer just a matter of focusing on how to reduce emissions. We also need to put in place measures to reduce the damage, especially in the poor countries. I am therefore pleased with the commitment made by the Government to climate action in the next year’s State budget – measures that will both reduce and mitigate the damage in the poorest countries. If we are to bring developing countries into a new international climate agreement, the richest countries must set an example, and not least these countries must be involved in taking a large part in the bill for future climate action. There is a huge crowd that wants Norway to be active in Afghanistan. It is important to bear in mind that we have military forces in the country because the UN Security Council has asked us to do so, and because the popular government in the country has asked for it. Measurements also show that there is great upsurge in the Afghan people for the international forces in the country. The ISAF forces have soldiers from 36 countries, including Norway. These forces are in Afghanistan on behalf of the United Nations. The aim of the effort is to secure the situation, so that one can build civil society. The aim is for the country to develop with democratic institutions and a governance system that allows the international forces to go home. Unfortunately, there are strong counterforces. I think it's important that we remind ourselves of who it was that crashed in this country before the international presence. The Taliban regime is one of the worst terror regimes we've ever had in recent times. Major violations of human rights, killing and assault were an important part of the regime's policy. That the country was also a haven for international terrorists like Al Qaida and others, did not improve the situation. It is often focused on things that are not going well in Afghanistan. It is natural, but we must not forget that it has been a dramatic shift to the better for most people who live in the country. It has been possible for the first time to hold an election in the country, and the country now has a elected president and a elected parliament. Five million refugees have been able to return, and far more are being trained today. While teaching girls under the Taliban was forbidden, there are now over two million girls going to school. While only 9 pst. of the population had access to health care in 2002, with more than 80 pst. by the population today this access. The battle for a stabilized Afghanistan cannot be won by military means. It is therefore important to achieve a civil build-up of the country. Unfortunately, it has often been shown that it is easier to model international support for military actions than for repatriation — as has been the case in Afghanistan. The sum spent on military actions and presence is far above what is used for civil purposes and construction. Norway is one of the countries that has given the most to build civil society. The next year's budget shows that this is one of the most important areas of government activity. It's positive, and here I mean that other countries have a lot to learn from Norway. After the Annapolis meeting last week, there is reason for some optimism about a peaceful development in Israel-Palestinian relations. The goal of a two-state solution is firm, but of course it is still a long way to go, and there are many challenges on the road. One of the biggest problems is the lack of trust between the parties. The security situation in Israel and the difficult humanitarian situation in the Palestinian territories are exacerbating the situation. If you want to build trust, you have to improve the living conditions of people, not least on the Palestinian side. Norway plays a very important role as the leader of the gearlands group for these areas. After the Annapolis meeting, there seems to be renewed support for this work. Both the US Secretary of State and EU representatives have stressed the importance of rebuilding Palestinian territories. Without such support, it would be impossible to achieve a two-state solution, which in turn would threaten Israel's security. Unfortunately, this quadruple has not reached the Progress Party, which in its alternative budget cuts dramatically in this support. Had the Advance Party had been passed, fewer children had received education, fewer had received medical attention, and in Gaza parts of food aid would have stopped. A people in a very difficult humanitarian situation would get the dramatic worse with their budgets of the Progress Party. But the recruitment of the extremist groups would probably have gotten bigger. High growth has been proposed in the development budget for next year. That's good, unfortunately there seems to be a need for development assistance in the future. Even with many positive developments internationally, countries and regions need this support to develop. Because of Norwegian developmental aid, thousands of people get a more dignified life. Kids get vaccines, health care and education that they wouldn't get without this help. In recent times, there has been an increasing debate on the impact of aid. It's positive. The evaluation of money use is always important. It is particularly important, in my view, when these money is intended to go to the poorest of the poor. NORAD has now issued a report analysing the impact of Norwegian aid. That's good. NORAD should have praised it, but I must nevertheless say that I am somewhat surprised that it took so long before we received the first report. The report shows that help works, but not well enough. A prejudice-free debate on these issues is important. Only by asking critical questions, checking and analysing can we achieve better results. I am pleased that, until next year, there are larger resources to administer and control the aid we provide. It has also become increasingly clear that assistance alone is not enough. Trade has played an important role for those countries that have managed to fight out of poverty. We must therefore enable developing countries to participate in international trade. The WTO's work on fairer trade is important. Trade barriers must be removed. It is positive that the Government expands the GSP scheme by 14 new countries. At the same time, we have seen that the preferences previously granted to the least developed countries have not led to a particular increase in trade, simply because these countries have had nothing to export, or because they have not had enough control or distribution systems. Reduced barriers to trade alone are therefore not enough. Aid for nutrient development is essential. If these countries are to be able to stand on their own, they must be able to speed up their own business. Norfund is an important tool for industrial development. The goal of at least one third of investments in the least developed countries was a good one. However, when this target led to a decline in investment, rather than a fall in investment in the least developed countries, it was wrong. It was therefore right to change this objective, so that Norfund could have a broader investment base than has been the case. Nor when it comes to the budget we are dealing with today, there is a common opposition. On the contrary, this is one of the areas where there is the greatest gap between the opposition side. Where the Progress Party is almost raging the aid, where the Right is cutting dramatically, and where unfortunately the Left is also taking part in the assistance, we see that the Christian People's Party is doing the opposite, simply increasing the assistance. I can't see it otherwise than that this must be one of the areas where any new government will have the biggest problem of being able to alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e146	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e149	For decades, Norwegian foreign policy has been underpinned by consensus on important foreign and defence policy issues, which the Labour Party has also contributed to. Historically, the Workers’ Party has worked for good transatlantic cooperation and has actively contributed to Norway’s membership of NATO. Now the Workers' Party is in government with the Socialist Left Party, which claims that our closest ally, the United States, is the greatest threat to world peace. In addition, the party speaks with at least two tongues on important security issues inside and outside this house, as we recently experienced when our Afghanistan exposure was discussed. Is the Labour Party comfortable with a situation where our foreign and security policy credibility to the degrees is undermined by their own government partner?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e158	I think that this perception of reality is primarily inside the replicator's head. It's not really the root of that description. The truth is that today we are much more gathering about the important foreign policy issues than we have ever done in recent Norwegian history. So there is complete dissatisfaction in the Government that NATO should be our main basis for security policy, and that is full support for the policy we are pursuing in Afghanistan. I think it is very important that we have a foreign policy debate. I also think it is important that this debate reflects different positions. It is important that the unity that exists about the important things in this house does not lead to a stiff debate. So Norwegian security policy is well served by this government. Fortunately, the father that Waksdal sees is few others who see.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e167	Since the representative Aksensen is concerned with reality, I can comfort him that we have very good experience in finding common solutions with the Christian People's Party in government. We have seen this before, also in the area of aid. After all, it's just 0.03 pst. the difference between the Højs alternative assistance budget and the Government’s assistance budget. It's an old term in aid that says that the best development aid is given by providing education to girls. It is therefore very understandable that the Workers' Party has been committed to producing a relatively clear wording in the comments on the value of education, when considering how absent the theme is actually in the budget of the Minister of Assistance. Can we count on the Workers' Party to be involved when we want to work for education to remain a major theme of development policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e176	One of the most positive missions of the Christian People's Party has contributed towards the Right, has been that they have got the Right to become part of the important, broad political unity of aid. But unfortunately, it seems that immediately the Right should stand on its own legs, disappear that unity. I would therefore say, as I said last year, that one of the most disappointing things about the Right's alternative budget is that they are cutting back on aid – and therefore they are no longer part of the broad policy when it comes to aid. Both the current configuration of the Committee and, not least, the configuration of the Committee in relation to the composition of Ministers for Development, show broad agreement on the range of bets. I have to say that it's true that I feel that the opposition is trying to create a reality that means that this government does not bet on education. It's a reality description that I don't know about. Of course, education should also be one of the most important areas of action in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e183	I can reassure the representative Aksensen that the Christian People's Party was very pleased with the aid budgets we received in the Bondevik II government, precisely in cooperation with the Right and Left. I think it's very nice that the representative Aksenssen starts talking about climate, and just takes up the link between the climate and the poverty challenge we're facing. It is not new that the environment has been an integral part of the aid. However, what can become a paradox now, as some aid organisations have also expressed concern, is that those countries that have no overall responsibility for the climate problems, the poorest countries in Africa, may be the ones that are affected by the failure to give priority to the poverty response to these countries. Then my question to the representative Akselsen will be: can the Labour Party guarantee that the poorest countries in Africa will not be affected if we have a stronger climate response to poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e192	Unfortunately, I would say that it is the opposite that will happen, that it is these poorest countries that will be the hardest framework of climate change. Therefore, it is particularly important that we focus on responses that can remedy the situation in these countries. That's what the government adds by targeting the development budget. But it is also true that if we are to achieve the climate objectives we have, I am absolutely sure that we need to apply the mechanisms of the Kyoto agreements that require the rich countries to take action in the poor countries to reduce CO2 emissions and maintain the rainforest, and have projects to reduce desertification, etc. I am quite sure that this can be combined, that we have an offensive development policy while we have an offensive environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e202	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e206	First, a little visit to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, which was attacked by the Progress Party and our assistance to the Palestinian territories, which are probably the regions of the world as per. The population has received the most assistance from Norway and other international donors. What are the results? Unfortunately, they have not been very merry. So if there is more assistance that is the problem – that is what this representative doubts. It may seem that the world around us is changing a lot, whether it's Russia under Putin, Russia's problem with NATO, the US's irritation over China, or the Muslim world's arrogance over the West. However, little of this is new. I think they're new. The themes may be new. But it's very much a picture of the world in the last hundred years – at least. For Norway, this is rather a message that the world is, to a large extent, as it has always been, and that our fundamental challenges in many ways have not changed. Yes, the climate has got a new place, but otherwise there is a lot of business as usual. Then we must also have a foreign policy that reflects this and as a capacity to meet our challenges. The Northern Region Strategy is an important tool in this way. Many of our main challenges are encountered here, and priorities and efforts are required to follow this up. I'll get a little closer to this at the end of my post. I sincerely welcome the unanimous support of the work that Norway is doing in Afghanistan, both militarily and civilly. In many other NATO countries there are violently polarized debates in national Parliaments on these issues. During the previous ageing period, this issue was subject to conflict and disintegration. Fortunately, that's no longer the case when we're talking about the big lines. But outside this hall there is a debate that we are going to take seriously. It is the debate whether we have anything to do in Afghanistan at all, especially in the military. Some of the opponents of military presence in Afghanistan give the closest impression that Afghanistan had been a nice place to stay just not NATO had interfered, and just NATO is pulling out, the peace and quiet will come. With all due respect, this is great. It's not a rosary picture we can draw of today's Afghanistan, but in relation to the hell under the Taliban, the contrast is striking. And although challenges are not lacking in today’s Afghanistan, there is at least a hope – not least for all the girls who can now go to school. If we give up, hope is shattered. Then fundamentalism has won. Isolationism is not a new phenomenon, but in an increasingly globalized world it is a strange phenomenon and something that is to a small extent suitable as a governance tool. ‘The main driving force behind the fall in extreme poverty is economic growth. It is not the assistance that is the main engine to stimulate economic growth or poverty reduction globally. [[...]] [[...]] There may also be a risk that aid will reduce the need for self-employment as tax collection and create aid dependence. Assistance can strengthen the power of poor leaders and be subject to corruption if there is a lack of control and transparency.» This sounds as if it were taken from our relatively full remarks, but there are quotations from Norad’s 2007 results report — a narrow selection of quotations, but still: this is also an image of the assistance — and now in an official language theme. In our remarks, we go deeper into this matter and explain why aid too often becomes a sleeping pad for effective development policy. But we are also pleased today with a more sobering aid debate, and with the fact that Norad is going after himself and the assistance in the seams. We've been asking for this for a long time. There are things happening in this budget that there is reason to rejoice, and that is the development that is taking place in the field of trade. Everyone agrees that 14 new countries are going under the so-called GSP scheme, but it is estimated that only 5 million dollars will be spent next year. I'm afraid we're talking more about symbol politics than something that can produce noticeable results, but it's a start. The opposition goes further, sometimes much further, than the government parties want. Government parties may appear to be involved as long as the impact on Norwegian agriculture is negligible. As soon as it gets talked about that we have to deliver something, it's full stop. Swaziland has become the symbol of the border in this budgetary process. If we allow Swaziland to sell meat in Norway, the Norwegian farmer is in danger. If we keep Swaziland away, Norwegian agriculture is saved. It's not nice that it's stranded in the WTO. No wonder the world's poorest feel placed in a strait. No, it's no wonder that the majority feel pressured to give so much in aid, for trade they're not willing to do. I do not want to criticise the Central Party for supporting this policy. They always have. They are predictable and legitimate. However, despite their limited size, they premise Norwegian trade with developing countries. We in the Progress Party are almost depreciated as moral inferiority and human enemy with our view of aid. The center party doesn't just get to pay homage. Their policy will be the policy of the majority! While there is no consensus on the long-term effects of aid, everyone agrees that trade can make a difference for the poor. And when Norwegian centre parties gain power together with their allies in France and the United States, then there are gloomy prospects for the future. Protectionism is the true face of egoism. We see it in the U.S. election campaign. We see it in the European Union. And unfortunately, there is still Norwegian policy. When the government flags that it understands that trade is important, it becomes a word without real content. If you were serious, Swaziland wouldn't be a problem. Then we had looked at our profile in the WTO and rightly lifted the moral index finger against both Paris and Washington. Now we are left undressed and appear to be a people who talk incredibly long and committed to poverty reduction, but who show far less willingness to actual action. We would like to send a check, but the change that affects Norwegian cooperatives and a few meat farmers is not at all relevant. Understand the one who can. I started by drawing up the importance of a predictable foreign policy as the ability to secure the nation over time. The EEAS is an important tool in this way. However, there is an area that the Storting is not invited to discuss at all, and when we express ourselves, this is seen as something unnatural. Today we are going to vote on two proposals concerning our consulates in Minneapolis and Edinburgh. I would like to address the two proposals in the vote on these. The first, if Minneapolis, is promoted by the Right, Christian People's Party, Left and Advance Party. The second, whether Edinburgh is promoted by the Right and the Advance Party. We need to make a small linguistic change to the two proposals in order for them to be in line with the legislation. In proposal No 1 must be replaced by ‘Minneapolis’. In proposal No 2 the sentence must be replaced by ‘Edinburgh’. In the evening post of 29 November we are informed of significant changes in our diplomatic outdoor apparatus – at least according to the Evening Post. I will not go into the individual changes, partly because I am not properly informed about them, but I allow myself to challenge the current position, that such questions must be kept away from the national assembly of the country. It could have been very relevant to discuss our foreign service, location, scope, etc., in an overall strategy – not to control detail, but to ensure the necessary anchoring for sensitive changes. Without taking the Stortinget on board, changes are proposed, and we will hardly get the most constructive debate in this area. It may well be that this is an area that needs to be given higher budgetary priority. With several EU and NATO countries, increasing internationalisation of Norwegian business, it is obvious that we must also follow suit. This is not free, but so far it is that any new foreign crown must be defined as ODA-approved assistance, and it does not necessarily provide the most optimal use of funds. How all of this, all the changes that are now being proposed in the EEAS — something we know, something we read about in the Evening Post — coincide with, for example, Nor is a North-Area Strategy adopted. The less we are present, for example. in the United States, whether it's at a consulate or at the embassy in Washington – which I understand it should be changed – the less influence we want. This is at least our thesis. Whether it is true at any time can certainly be discussed. But when the Storting does not even want to discuss such issues, foreign policy remains an area for the few.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e233	The President would point out that the use of the word ‘injection’ is inappropriate. The President has understood Mr Höglund's representative to draw up his proposal. 1 and 2 and that what comes after the sentence to which the representative referred shall be deleted – if the President has understood correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e238	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e246	UNRWA is the UN relief organization for the Palestinian refugees. They're doing a huge job. They run schools, they run health stations, and they run food distribution. UNRWA is in place in Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and the Palestinian territories. Without UNRWA, these refugees would not get the help they get today. These refugees have very few options. There are restrictions on their travel possibilities, and there are restrictions on their ability to take a job. Everyone knows that the security situation, e.g. in Gaza, is very tense, so normal nutritional development is not possible. In reality, the people of Gaza are trapped. With its progress party cut, it would have had dramatic consequences for UNRWA's ability to carry out its extensive relief work. The starvation would get bigger, the nauda would get bigger. Doesn't the Progress Party see that their cut actually helps lay the foundation for even more extremism in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e253	It is a complex and unfortunate situation in the Palestinian territories and among the Palestinian refugees. The UN organization for these has very rarely had a lucky hand with this situation. This reflects our cut. With regard to our general cut in the Middle East, which to a very large extent includes this, we also say that with a different approach and policy both in the area and in terms of the assistance we are doing, we are willing to look at this again within our overall budget. With regard to both the Middle East and Africa, we see that our cut is dramatic, but it is very much an expression of the policy that has been pursued and that is being pursued today, which we do not believe makes the necessary contribution to a peaceful development in the Middle East. That's why we have to go into a completely different track. If we get into the second track – maybe we see an indication now after Annapolis – we get to join in and discuss a changed budgeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e258	It would have been tempting to follow up on the question of the attitude of the Progress Party towards Israel and the collective punishment of the Gazan population, but I will not do so. I'm going to deal with climate change, because I didn't hear much about it in the posts of the representative, Höglund. After all, the Progress Party has probably also raised the issue that climate change is serious, but they still have doubts as to whether they are man-made. At the same time, the Progress Party is committed to limiting the number of refugees, and it is a fact that if we do nothing about serious climate change, we will have many, many millions of climate refugees, and that will affect the very, the poorest. When will the Progress Party seriously care about climate change and take action to alleviate the need for the poorest in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e267	Now I don't have the comments in front of me, but as far as I recall, we basically agree with everything that is said about these issues in the vote – we recognise the challenge of climate change, what it can do in relation to emigration, what it can do in relation to the poor part of the world, and that this can contribute to refugee disasters that we don't even know the outlines of. Then our policy of doing something for these refugees in the neighbourhoods becomes very relevant. Connecting it to today's refugee policy does not contribute to many good results. We share the concern with SV. We share the concern of the Government. We share the concern of a unanimous committee. I just think it's in common that we can find the results. I don't see that we've been out here in any way. With the setting we deliver today, we're with the rest of the Storting in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e274	The representative, Morten Höglund, was very concerned about the situation of Swaziland and the handling of the matter by the Central Party, and he gave us a significant role in what has happened. I'll come back to that in my post. My question is, in the budget of the Advance Party, there is a cut in Africa for a total of SEK 2.4 billion, 88 pst. I would like to mention Namibia as a successful project on the fisheries side. When we were visiting Angola, the Foreign Minister said there: we have moved from military colonialism to economic colonialism. Africa remains a raw material supplier. My question to the representative, Høglund, is: is he wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e283	The importance of Swaziland in this debate is the contribution of the government parties. That shouldn't be a problem. When you draw up the effect of the assistance – now I am not going to ask the question – it is natural to point to it as for example. NORAD refers in his report to the fact that after 40 years of assistance to Zambia no significant results can be seen. And then you can, and we'll admit that, point to some individual projects that have been successful. The assistance as such has not given it the promise, while very many agree that trade and economic development can just give it the promise. So who has the most offensive policy to lift the population of Africa, I would like to be allowed to come back to!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e290	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e294	In its 2008 Alternative State Budget, the Right proposes an increase in the assistance compared to the end-of-year budget of DKK 1 billion in 2007. That equals 0.95 pst. of gross national income. So this is 0.03 pst. less than the Government’s proposal. We also want this year to extend the duty-free regime, and therefore entered the financial position in order to extend the duty-free regime to low-income countries with larger populations. Then India, Nigeria, Pakistan and Vietnam were included in addition to the smaller countries, which are part of the Government’s proposals. The right underlines the need to integrate poor countries into the global economy to combat poverty on a sustainable basis. The challenge remains high in order to secure the share of developing countries in world markets. Let me just mention a passer-by, that we are also behind the same comment on Swaziland, to which the representative Höglund referred. The right-hand proposal in the financial position was defeated. We are therefore dealing with the agreed framework and are already warning that during the voting we support the proposal of the Christian People's Party and their re-priorities. This is also evident from our remarks under the individual chapters of the setting. The right is also involved in the two minority proposals asking the Government to reconsider putting down consulates in Minneapolis and Edinburgh. In the media, over the past week, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has come to the conclusion that it is in the process of reorientating the presence of Norway abroad, including Norway. focus on the Middle East and the Far East. It is affordable that in such a process, one assesses whether some old measures can be terminated, as one appears to want to implement the transition within an unchanged cost framework. Just don't pour the baby out with the bath water! Globalisation affects all areas of society and is, of course, particularly noticeable in the EEAS. Our old tripolar around the world where Norway dealt with the United States, Europe and Russia, is being pushed by a multipolar world, where we need to have sustained focus more places. Faced with such new challenges, external services may in fact need not only to be refurbished but also to be extended. This is probably easier to do in programme area 3 than 2, as long as the costs are ODA-relevant. However, we will be willing to assess the level of costs of a modernised foreign service, as long as it emerges as part of an overall production, in which the Stortinget can participate. In the configuration, a minority points out that, following many years of changes, the budgetary structure has become relatively inconclusive and calls for a review to ensure the necessary control and control capability for the Storting without depriving the departments of their legitimate need for some flexibility. The premise of the size of the budget to govern through the budgetary process is not least a topical issue related to the current budget. Here's all kinds of items that have swelled from two digits to three-digit million, and in many chapters, just an indication, as it says, what a person wants to use the funds for. Here, in our opinion, is a downturn in the importance of defined countries of cooperation, and the verbal priority of Africa is not reflected in budget figures. Above all, a search must be made to find some of the agreed thematic areas of activity, where the Stortinget has so far been unanimous. One might easily perceive the procedure as a somewhat arrogant disregard for the Storting decision. Such an example is education, which was one of the central themes listed in the budgets of recent years and the Innst. S. No 93 for 2004-2005 from the Foreign Affairs Committee to St.meld. No 35 for 2003-2004 on a comprehensive development policy. A short time ago, Innst. S. No 20 for 2007-2008 and the Committee was unanimous. Education is still up-to-date. A communication from the United Nations as late as November 29 shows that 25 countries lack much to meet the Millennium Goal on Education for All, and two thirds of the countries are south of the Sahara. A UNESCO comment states that women’s reading ability is of particular importance for children’s education and health, of course also for women’s health, but that women still make up 64 pst. of the adult illiterates of the world, and furthermore that assistance for education is far less than the required annual USD 11 billion, which UNESCO aims to achieve. Governments have explained in the past that education is integrated into many other purposes. In our opinion, however, the absence of explicit mention leads to a down-priority, and will make it more difficult to apply for funding for purely educational projects, for example. within the regional appropriations. So the right is well aware of the concern raised by, among other things. Save the Children during and after the hearings this year. Last Monday I followed the debate on Document No. 3:13 for 2006-2007 concerning the review by the National Audit Office of the operation and management of Norfund. In an article, the Council of State stated that he felt it was timely to have an audit case on Norfund's lack of follow-up to Storting's priorities, and he would follow it up with an intensified dialogue between the Department and Norfund. All right, but is it credible when neither the Council of State's own draft budget seems to take the Stortinge completely seriously? For the right, poverty reduction and development effects are indicative of assistance. We recognise that development takes time, but demands positive progress towards democracy and respect for human rights. The Committee's strong focus on the environment and climate is also fully behind it. Over the last six years, we have observed that the evaluation of assistance has improved. Revision and transparency shall be at the bottom and good descriptions of the performance objectives shall be included. The joy is that we gradually come to understand that it is the impact of the measures that ultimately count, and that evaluation is something that requires methodological development and that needs to be planned prospectively. In this area, the Right will continue to be demanding. Three weeks ago I was in Cambodia with the World Bank parliamentary network and visited, among other things. agricultural projects in the context of poverty reduction. Something was positive, like improving rice varieties and cultivation methods gave safer and larger food crops. Other measures showed the wrong effect when assumptions fail. Heavy areas – indeed hundreds of thousands of targets – in Laos, Cambodia and Thailand are now being replanted from rice to manioc, which is demanded as a biofuel for emission-friendly cars in the West. In a country with a lack of legislation and property rights, the increase in value leads to purchases, or regular seizures of land, displacement of the matrix and displacement of poor farmers, who become even poorer, and eventually end up in the big city slum. The value of agricultural production in the country is increasing sharply, but the main intention of poverty reduction is to go into the wash once the country has not developed a policy of distribution. Agriculture remains an important part of development policy, but we should know to require framework conditions that provide the intended end-effect – and that is what we should be even more good at predicting on the basis of targeted evaluation. I refer to our other comments in the opinion, but end with some considerations about foreign policy challenges in 2008. With increasing globalisation, the West feels that other corners of the world are also taking part and making the premises. For Norway, it is even more important that international commitments ensure the interaction between the large and the small. The UN and the WTO are key venues for this. NATO and the EU are the most important cooperation organisations in our neighbourhood and belong to Norway. We support the policy of friendship with Russia, while recording its growing economic and increasingly visible military capabilities. Cooperation is becoming safer when the Russians know that we are firmly anchored in Europe and NATO. Then it remains to be seen whether the American National Intelligence Estimate, presented two days ago, and which revised the perception of Iran's possible nuclear programme, can help form the basis for a changed approach to Iran from the major acts and from the Security Council. In the Middle East, a lasting improvement must be based on a political solution that is shared by all parties. It was therefore positive that so many countries took part in the Annapolis conference. Significantly greater resources are needed for diplomatic efforts in the region, in particular from the United States and the EU. Over the past 100 years, the West has done many dubious acts in this area, not least motivated by the rich natural resources. When you entangle yourself in one conflict after another, you make mistakes if you think that the local people don't remember what happened in the last few generations. Here, a laborious building of mutual respect and through political, intercultural and interreligious dialogue must strengthen moderate and reformable forces. As a bridge builder between the West and Islam, it is crucial that the EU understands to associate with Turkey – a strictly secular country with a Muslim population. Here is a historic challenge; to show that Islam and democracy are compatible. These issues and many more, whether in Afghanistan or Iraq, citizens for an exciting foreign policy year with many challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e338	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e341	On the right, you can cut 40 million. aid to Latin America. What does the Right think should be cut? Is there democratic support and environmental action in the Andes region? Is that support for poor native women? Are there equal opportunities measures? The right has also hoped for a very negative note on assistance to Latin America. Does the Right really believe that aid to poor native women or securing the rainforest, and thus also securing the livelihood of thousands of poor people, is not poverty orientation? That's the way you can interpret the comment that the Right Well at the last moment came up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e348	Unfortunately, if you mean something by the word ‘priority’ and have agreed to implement that priority, then there are other things that get lower priorities. The eye-catching in this is not the opinion of the Right on and comments on Latin America – the eye-catching here is the attitude of the government parties towards and implementation of the priority of Africa. If you go into our budget option, you will see that we have spared Africa, in line with the agreed priorities that have prevailed in this committee earlier, both in this period and in the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e355	It is very positive that the representative Vallersnes says that the Right fully supports what is relevant to the environment and climate in the setting. And then we can think about how we're going to put more money into this important policy area, because it's going to be nothing without us putting money in. I am also very pleased that Right writes that Norwegian foreign policy and development policy must be seen in a clear and clear context. One goes so far as to say that development policy must also be heightened in order for energy and climate issues to be part of international policies. We all know about the extended security coverage. There we know that poverty is clearly central, and we know that fighting poverty is useful in terms of creating security. Does Right also believe that the environmental and climate debris is part of this expanded security operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e366	Let's say right away that for the Right, it's clearly at the bottom of the equation that the Millennium Goals are the bottom plank. I have presented some of them in my post as we thought deserved special attention. Then, over the last few years, we have gradually developed a consciousness in the Committee and in the Storting on other far-reaching issues, such as: ended up in a proposal on the environmental action plan. The current effort to integrate the environment and climate into both foreign and development policies is – to say – ‘mainstreaming’ of an important theme, which we fully support.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e373	I have been following them recently and have registered that the Right has been quite clear that the Government has not invested enough in the northern areas. Just to keep the numbers in place, with this budget, we've come up in almost half a billion dollars. Then I actually expected to get a comment from the Right of the North in this debate. I have tried to look into the budget and have found out that the Right has invested 10 million. kr in addition to what the Government has done. Does that indicate that the Right is satisfied with the Northern Territory bet of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e378	I don't think you have to look for so long in the budget to find our formulations on the northern regions. We have a redispatch in our frame, plus the addition of a few extra millions, that Samuelsen pointed to. The budget has several facilities, not least for research in the north. The weak effort in research, which is a general label on the government, and we also think the research side is missing in the North Region initiative. We've noticed that in particular. Otherwise, I have to say that there are other sides to the North Region bet we are concerned about. Some of it was promoted in the debate during yesterday's debate on the Ministry of Defence's budget. We think the reductions are too large to support during our North bet. Another aspect is that we hope that in our friendship policy towards Russia, as I mentioned in the post, we have a totally united and clear view of our being at home in Europe and in NATO, which provides security and is a basis for our contact with Russia. We're a little bit unsure where the coalition is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e387	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e390	Martin Luther King Jr. once said: ‘Human progress is not automatic and is not obvious either. We are now facing the reality that tomorrow is today. We stand face to face with the demands of the moment for action. In the enigmatic course of life and history, it is possible to act late [[...]] The year 2007 was the great wake-up year. It is no longer possible to close the eyes of the great crisis facing the world, namely man-made climate change that threatens tomorrow. The poorest are threatened today. No other matter is more urgent than doing something about this. Human Development Report from UNDP 2007/2008 states that we do not solve climate crisis, nor do the world achieve the Millennium Goals. Not only must the world’s richest countries take the greatest responsibility for resolving the climate crisis by reducing CO2 emissions, but the world’s richest countries must also take the primary responsibility for enabling developing countries to adapt to the effects of climate change. When the world’s poorest are exposed to drought, violent storms, floods and environmental pressures, this means that they have less resources left to create a better life for themselves and their children. When global warming changes the weather conditions on the Horn of Africa, it means that the crops fail, and that people starve, or that women and young girls need to spend several hours collecting water. When we in the rich countries recognize that it is necessary to adapt to the changes that come anyway, whether it is to save the bridge in Bergen or build flood and racial protection, it is nevertheless in the village communities of Bangladesh, at the Ganges or Niles and in the growing urban areas of developing countries that we find those that are really exposed to the storms and floods. The UNDP report 2007/2008 points to the long-term adverse effects of climate shock on human development – an example: in Ethiopia or Kenya, children aged five or younger, 36 pst–50 pst. more likely to be undernourished if they are born during a drying period. It deprives them of the right to a worthy life. We in the rich countries must take the greatest responsibility for reducing climate change, find predictable mechanisms for financing technologies in countries that have the same right to a decent standard of living as we have, but without going the road to CO2 emissions, and not least find a mechanism to ensure poor adaptability. The world needs to find financial mechanisms that also go beyond the aid budgets. It's a challenge we've been faced with, among other things. from the Church's Emergency Aid. We have to think seriously about it. The fight against climate change is both local and global. Before the death of the Brazilian environmental defender Chico Mendes, he talked about which bands tied his local struggle to preserve the rainforest, to a global struggle for social justice. He said, «At first, I thought I was fighting to save rubber trees. Then I thought I was fighting to save the rain forest in the Amazon. Now I understand that I am fighting for humanity." Then it is good that there are now signs that our ministers are going to Bali with the message of a power cap to save the rain forest. It's also a power cap for biodiversity. The Environmental Action Plan prioritises the conservation of biodiversity and sustainable natural resource management. Barriers are local participation, strengthening the rights of local people to natural resources, and a partnership between organisations that can environment here with us, and the environmental movement in the poorest countries. That is why I am pleased that we are strengthening this work in this budget. 2007 is also the year in which the peace movement and the environmental movement came together. The symbol is the Peace Prize for the United Nations Climate Panel and Al Gore. It brings me to another great challenge. The Committee points out that the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the danger of nuclear disarmament are one of the greatest threats of our time. With Russia’s suspension of the CFE agreement, Bush’s attack on the ABM agreement and the plans for a missile missile defence, conventional disarmament and arms control and non-proliferation can be disrupted for a long time. Let it be clear that non-proliferation and disarmament are targets that complement each other. They cannot be kept separate. I am pleased that, during the debate in the UN General Assembly on disarmament and international security, Norway called for a new impetus in the fight against nuclear disarmament. In the fight against terrorism, the United States uses Iran as the great enemy. Now it turns out that Iran closed its nuclear program four years ago. Pakistan is per year. Today, a much more unstable country. The country has nuclear weapons, and with a destabilization in Pakistan, nuclear weapons can get on the wrong hands and cause a real crisis. The government takes a leading role in advancing an international ban on class ammunition. It is promising that more than 80 countries now support the Oslo Declaration to negotiate a ban in 2008. It is important both for humanitarian reasons and to contribute to the reconstruction and development of areas of conflict and war. That is what people in Laos, Afghanistan and Lebanon have learned. Freedom from climate degradation and poverty and freedom from war and conflict are central human rights. The fight for human rights is important for Norway. It's not like that everywhere. A gruesome example is Saudi Arabia: November 14th this year, a 19-year-old woman was subjected to repeat violence, sentenced to six months of imprisonment and physical punishment in the form of 200 strokes. The sentence doubled after the woman gave an interview and criticised the judicial system and the judgment. Saudi Arabia ratified the UN Women’s Convention in 2004, and it is important that the Norwegian authorities are clear in any dialogue with the Saudi authorities in relation to these gross violations of human rights. An important international human rights issue is the abolition of the criminalisation of homosexuality. The main challenge in the fight against these human rights violations has been and is persistence. The abuses are kept secret because of the social stigma of homophilis associated with them. This means that abuse is neither reported, investigated nor criticised. The stigma has also led to homosexual organisations often working alone. In December last year, Norway submitted to the UN Human Rights Council an opinion condemning discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. 54 countries across all regions participated in the opinion. The government has identified the fight against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation as a specific area of action in the field of human rights. I'm proud of that. The 2005 Security Council Resolution 1612 focuses on children as victims of war and conflict. The resolution calls for the perspective, protection and rights of children to be integrated into all peace processes, in reconstruction and in programme activities. In addition, it encourages countries to take measures to prevent the abduction of children and the use of children as child soldiers. Countries providing economic development assistance are encouraged to strengthen national institutions and local civil society organisations in order to enable them to carry out public service activities, to protect and rehabilitate children who are exposed to conflict and its consequences. The government also underlines the importance of providing education to children in conflict. This work may be linked to the continuation of Security Council Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. Here in Norway, we have a national action plan to follow up on it internationally. It is important that we link the work to both women and children. We know that women and children are sexually abused and victims of violence and abuse. Civil society, the extra-parliamentary movements that challenge us and create debate, is an important part of our democracy. They're getting state contributions to support the movement in the south and to run information here at home. For SV it is important that support does not cause the system debate to cease. We need the debate on the WTO, the IMF and the World Bank, for example. That is why we in SV are particularly pleased that a new system of grants for debate and information on globalisation is now being set up. The new movements will benefit from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e434	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e438	The representative Valle had a reference that Iran now seems not to have entered the path of nuclear weapons. That it stopped in 2003 is based on US intelligence. It might have been interesting to hear SV's point of view on the backbone of US intelligence, but I'll leave it. The representative Aksensens took up in a reply to the representative Vaksdal that it was only in Waksdal's head that there was a confusion in SV about the involvement in Afghanistan. Can the representative Ågot Valle assure Stortinget that there is broad support for our involvement in Afghanistan in SV, including the military part?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e445	Yes, there is reason to believe in American intelligence, which is now giving clear signals about Iran. US intelligence also strongly warned against the invasion – or reasons for the invasion – of Iraq, an invasion for which the Progress Party was an avid supporter. That was the aid to Afghanistan. Yes, there is a great deal of agreement on support for Afghanistan. But what worries me is that the debate on the strategies for achieving peace and stability in Afghanistan is almost absent. It is also almost absent in the Progress Party, as I understand. We must have a thorough debate on the strategy – whether it leads to the Afghans. That is what we must be concerned about: that the Afghans get a better life. I look forward to revitalising that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e452	I believe, unlike the representative Valle, that there is a fairly clear and agreed opinion within the opposition parties on the need to combine civil and military and security operations in Afghanistan. This is demonstrated, inter alia, by: of the proposal submitted today by the parties. But one is calling for an overall presentation from the government side. After the operations in Iraq in recent years, it has become quite clear that in this house there is a broad consensus that there will be a UN mandate at the bottom of operations of that type. There have been some recent statements by SV representatives regarding the involvement in Afghanistan, suggesting that one might not think it is equally relevant in that context. It makes me ask if it is such that SV reserves the right to assess which UN mandates one really seems legitimate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e459	There is a clear UN mandate behind the ISAF exposure, and that was also why SV in its time supported the ISAF exposure to stabilisation in Afghanistan. Now we think it's time we had a debate to discuss developments in Afghanistan. It is a fact that the war on terror that the United States waged and carried out in Afghanistan, and with the support of the government parties at that time, has led to a greater escalation of the Taliban. There is reason to start discussing whether we need to have an overall strategy that is linked, which means that we are spending more money on development, so that the Afghans can get a better life, and look at who it is that needs to be brought into peace negotiations, so that we can achieve peace in Afghanistan. It's complicated, but everybody has to get to the table here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e464	There is a broad consensus that increasing trade is an important way out of poverty and that Norway must contribute to it. When it comes to action, it's harder. The previous government implemented free market access and customs freedom to Norway for 29 of the least developed countries. The new government announced that it would follow this up. But it had to be a proposal from the Christian People's Party to find out what is now in the budget on reduced barriers to trade with 14 developing countries. What we have experienced in many ways now is that the government is dragging its legs. Now they've put their feet down in relation to a clearly correct proposal to include Swaziland in this list and the Christian People's Party's proposal to include India, Pakistan, Vietnam and Nigeria. What is the reason why the Government is so reluctant and, in fact, has now set its feet down in order to increase customs freedom to Norway for the poorest countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e469	It is true that trade can lead to a reduction in poverty in countries. That is why we have now allowed 14 new countries to join the GSP scheme. But trade must also be discussed in a different light. Trade must be combined with political space – the same as we had. Trade needs to be combined with trade-oriented assistance, for which the Government is calling for in this budget, and has come up with an action plan that has three main pillars: women and trade, good governance and regional trade. A recent report shows that countries, especially in Africa, will need more regional trade to get out of poverty. That's advice we have to listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e474	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e477	The external budget provides the basis for an active Norwegian foreign and development policy. It is needed – both in the east, in the west and in the south. At our neighbour in eastern Russia, the elections to the Duma have been conducted in a way that meets criticism from international observers with the OSCE at the head. President Putin certainly has broad support, but the opposition's conditions during the election campaign are not acceptable. It is a long way to go in the work of democracy, human rights and the environment in our large neighbouring country in the east. With StatoilHydro's share in the Shtokman expansion, Norwegian business life is being taken into account in a heavy North investment, but it can be a challenge for both the environment, technology and other prerequisites for cooperation. So there's an ambitious shift of gravity towards the east, but it's sad to see that the government at the same time deprioritises cooperation with the Midwest, the core area of Norwegian immigration to America. In this large region in the heart of the United States, the Norwegian Consulate General in Minneapolis has played an important role in networking and cooperation in areas such as education, research, technology and business cooperation. The Christian People's Party does not agree with the Government's plan to shut down the Norwegian Consulate General. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposal to maintain it. I appeal to the Foreign Minister to reconsider this unwise decision. It's still on the axis north-south we find the biggest challenges. Fortunately, in development policy there is broad consensus in the Committee in most areas, and that is good. But there are three issues I want to focus in particular on: trade policy, which was mentioned in the last line change, the stepping up of aid and the arrangement of development cooperation. The Christian People's Party sees the trading conditions of developing countries as an important part of development policy. Poor countries need to receive increased income from trading with other countries. In the spring we received broad support for a Christian People's Party proposal to grant customs exemptions. It's since followed up for some small, poor developing countries. But I thought we were going to get any further. In the financial setting, the Christian People's Party and other opposition parties went in to grant customs exemptions for some major developing countries. The parties opposed the proposal. So I thought we'd at least get the government parties on an initiative to give small, poor Swaziland better coverage through customs exemptions. We were given convincing information in the hearing in the Committee that there was a reasonable consequence of the Government's own proposal in the budget. But there I was wrong. The government parties refused to take part in the comment on this which is now in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The opposition parties support the proposal. Government lots seem to have chosen the role of brake pad. I understand in Ågot Valle's reply that there is a lack of room for action. I think we know the loop at the hall. Here the Center Party has used its veto right. That's the truth, and it might as well be admitted first as last. That is regrettable, because I think it is a broad majority of these proposals in this Chamber that are not being expressed. I do not believe that this position is life-making for a very long time, and I would therefore like to ask the Council of State, Mr Solheim, who will have the floor later in the debate, whether he agrees that Swaziland should also be exempted from customs duties for its exports to Norway. The Government’s political platform promises ‘that the appropriations for development cooperation will reach the target of 1 per cent of GNI and that the effort will then be further stepped up during the period’. In its position on the State Budget, the Financial Committee promoted the Christian People's Party, in accordance with this commitment, a proposal to increase the assistance framework by 458 million. kr, so that the assistance could achieve the objective of 1 pst. of GNI. Unfortunately, the proposal was defeated by the government parties. 2008 is the last chance to reach the first part of the promise, i.e. 1 pst. And the year 2009 is the last chance to comply with the second paragraph of the Soria Moria promise, namely ‘that the effort will then be stepped up further in the period’. The Christian People's Party has – as the only party – proposed to achieve the 1 pst goal in 2008. We would like to have had the support of several people. In the alternative state budget of the Christian People's Party, we proposed to increase the aid so that the 1 pst goal would be achieved. We proposed customs exemptions for several developing countries to promote trade. We proposed increasing appropriations for the poorest countries in Africa and significantly more funding for education, health, agricultural development and environmental development cooperation. And the Christian People's Party proposed a strong strengthening of assistance through non-governmental organisations, to mention the main points. Since the proposal on 1 pst. Of course, in the position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, we have to deal with the lower framework for which it is a majority. Within this, the Christian People's Party proposes to strengthen the regional allocation to Africa by 100 million. And we're going to give 105 million dollars. more than the Government of the Civil Society Budget Chapter – the assistance efforts of voluntary organisations. Of this addition, 90 million is going to go. SEK 5 million for the development assistance of voluntary organisations. $8 million for the Peace Corps. kr for the information work of voluntary organisations and SEK 2 million. to increase support for democracy. In addition, the Christian People's Party will strengthen the independent aid evaluation by 15 million. extra to contribute to quality assurance and increase the allocation of democratic support to the work of the political parties in developing countries. All these redeployment proposals stand together for the Christian People's Party and the Left. It's positive. The Right too has announced today that they will vote in favour of these amendments in a subsidiary way. It's also positive. In our view, the proposals indicate a better arrangement of development policy, with greater emphasis on poverty orientation, greater geographical concentration and a better strategy to make us reach the UN's Millennium Goals. We have noted that the government parties meet us a little bit. It's going to be a majority of 35 million. kr more to voluntary organisations than the Government proposed, and there will be a majority of 5 million. kr more to the Peace Corps. It's small steps, but it's going in the right direction. I'm surprised that the government didn't until after St.prp. No 1 has been presented, proposing a strengthening of civil assistance to Afghanistan. This suggests a need for both longer-term planning and better coordination of efforts in this poor and warring country. We hear a lot from the Government and the media about the military effort, and that is necessary, but we hear too little about the civil nation building. The effort there is also left to be desired. It needs to be strengthened. That is why, on behalf of all the opposition parties – the Advance Party Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – I would like to make the following suggestions, which I would like to address here: ‘The Government is asked to provide the Storting with an appropriate coordinated plan for the development of Norway’s contribution to Afghanistan, including civil development assistance and the contribution to the country’s political state and nation-building.’ After hearing Mr. Ågot Valle's contributions here today, I am convinced that this proposal will have the Swedish Government Party's approval, and hopefully all of the government parties' membership. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to have a comprehensive development policy. Aid alone is never enough. We need to have a coherent policy and contribute both to fairer trade, to debt relief and a number of other measures alongside increasing aid. Industrialised countries, which have the primary responsibility for the anthropogenic emissions that have contributed to climate problems, must themselves take responsibility for a significant reduction in the harmful emissions of greenhouse gases and pollution that contribute to, for example, pollution. the melting of ice in the Arctic and the increase in temperature. This will cost a lot, and we must not take money to help the world's poorest to solve these global problems that the rich countries have created. This principle is established in the position adopted by the Foreign Affairs Committee, which was unanimous on most points, on the basis of the presentation by the Minister for Development in June. I therefore assume that this is a guiding principle for the government's future policy. Assistance must be used for social and economic development, especially for the world's poor countries and peoples. That's where you need it unabbreviated. There is a need for Norway to exercise its influence in this area at the important meeting in Bali, which is now under way and in which Norway will participate with high ambitions. Otherwise, I take up proposals promoted by the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e527	The representative Dagfinn Højbrätt has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e532	I am pleased that the representative Højbräten from the Christian People's Party shares the red-greens' view that we need to increase our assistance to the poor in the world. At the same time, we have seen in the autumn that the Progress Party has been on free feet, among other things. have wanted with the Christian People's Party to have an alternative to the sitting government, and it's a party that cuts in the heart of the Christian People's Party by $10 billion. How will the representative Højbrätten characterize such a cut, and will the representative Højbrätten and the Christian People's Party be the guarantor against cutbacks in aid of the poorest, no matter what alternative the Christian People's Party would choose?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e537	In danger of using a word on the President's list, I will use it on the basis of statements from a former Prime Minister, who is on the media today, Gro Harlem Brundtland, and call it heartbroken. I want to refer to the Christian People's Party's political accounts after having been in government, at the latest in the last four years, where we have fought for and got an impact on an annual increase in Norwegian aid. The Christian People's Party is always on the side of the poorest, and those who want to be on the side of the Christian People's Party must be on the side of the poorest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e545	The President has no list in which the word «heart-to-heart» appears.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e548	Traditionally, aid has gone from charity to state aid to what we now call development policy. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is also stressing that the environment and climate are important and should be involved in this policy, while the Christian People's Party is good at problemating the traditional aid, that there may be a misunderstanding between traditional aid and the new one coming. But it's in opposition one is the most creative – at least I know a little about it. What kind of ideas does the Christian People's Party have? to provide more money for the new development policies such as the environment and climate, so as not to be detrimental to the more traditional areas such as agriculture and poverty reduction? We all know that we use around the world. $1,000 billion worth of weapons, $300 billion worth of export subsidies, and it's a little bit of aid: $50 billion. Where does the Christian People's Party see that we can get more money for this with climate and environmental issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e553	First, let me say that environmental issues are being put into the context of aid policy, not something that has been invented by SV, either in creative opposition or in so-called responsible positions in government. The Sahel programme, launched under the then Minister of Aid Reidun Brusletten in the 1980s, is a good example of environmental aid related to changes in the natural environment conditions of the poorest. I thank you for the invitation to join in and balance the climate agreement here in Stortinget. These negotiations should start as soon as possible, and there is a Christian People's Party behind the demands for a significant increase in bet, among other things. relative to rainforest. The Christian People's Party will stand as a pillar so that that money will not be taken from aid to the world's poor. Based on what has been said, I'm counting on SV's full support for that principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e560	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e563	The government's objective is to increase the aid budget to over 1 pst. of GNI during this government period. This is also the goal of the Center Party's principal programme. We're on the right track with an allocation of 0.98 pst. in this budget. At the same time, there is a challenge when the Norwegian economy grows so fast that the ministry's ability to manage, evaluate and monitor the rapidly increasing budget is limited. After all, it's all the more important that development aid comes to where it's meant to be, than that we reach a certain percentage. Only from 2007, aged budget, to 2008, there has been an increase of almost SEK 1.5 billion, and Norwegian development aid is now NOK 22.3 billion. The representative, Høglund, was in his contribution to development aid in a retrospective perspective. I think it's more interesting to see what we've learned from what's happened in earlier times, and where we are now. I note that development assistance is changing globally and in Norway. With the UN’s Millennium Goals, aid is increasing towards poverty where there are uneven distribution mechanisms – globally and nationally. We are increasing assistance to secure vaccines and access to medicines, which have become Norway's main field of action through the participation of the Prime Minister in the International Gavi Fund and the GFATM, the Global Fund for the Control of AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Norway has promised NOK 5 billion to the vaccine alliance GAVI by 2015. It's set at almost SEK 1.4 billion for 2008, and it's specifically targeted at thousand-year targets number 4 and 5, against women, children and health. Meeting the other thousand-year targets is also receiving increased attention from Norway in this state budget. However, I would like to stress that it is so important that we are able to help countries to help themselves to sustainable social changes that can strengthen their own ability to reduce poverty and ensure health, education and clean drinking water. The economic development item, including agricultural aid, has increased by 69 million. kr in the 2008 budget and is almost DKK 8 billion in total. In addition, there is some support for the development of nutrition, for example: under the Oil for Development, Environment and Women’s Assistance and Regional Appropriations. As Stortinget noted in the treatment of St.prp. No 1 last year, it has long been popular to recommend unilateral opening of markets through reduced customs duties and export orientation and unilateral opening of investments, while what was missing was the creation of production capacity both for own markets and exports. A total of two consecutive years has now confirmed that there is a need to strengthen production capacity, processing, employment and welfare development that must take priority in Norwegian industrial development. Increased government support for trade-related assistance will have to be affected by this perspective. As a result, it is natural that increased support goes through organisations that can contribute effectively, such as UN organisations and intergovernmental organisations for developing countries. When I put so much emphasis on this perspective, I do it not least because what has been pointed out for a number of years by development experts and practitioners, is now confirmed by findings in the UNCTAD report on the MUL countries that came out this summer. UNCTAD confirms that one has focused too little on creating production and comparative advantage in developing countries. The idea has been that they would continue to do what they were best at, ever since the colonial days, producing cheap raw materials for the markets of industrialized countries. UNCTAD tells us that despite increased foreign investment in Africa and Asia, this has not led to increased employment and well-being in these countries where there has been no active industrial policy that has ensured demands for local content, technology and knowledge transfer. From imposing minimum requirements for foreign investment to meet national needs for processing, clusters and employment, the United Nations is now proposing an active industrial policy. In Africa, the experience is what we could have foreseen, that the continent's so-called comparative advantage is to let foreign investors extract raw materials and export it elsewhere for processing. Although foreign investment can generate tax revenue to the country, tax can never outweigh the fact that a country does not have activities in productive sectors. In many Asian countries, as UNCTAD pointed out, investments had come to the bottom of the textile production chain, where only the cheapest possible workforce was needed with minimum requirements for the working environment. Even the countries that had tried to invest in the further training of textile workers had learned that this was not what foreign investors needed. They needed cheap unskilled labour. Only in countries with active industrial policies and requirements for investors had a success in raising the real wages of textile workers. On the basis of experience, UNCTAD concludes that industrial development and technology transfer must take place in three phases. One that demands knowledge and technology transfers when foreign investors come to the country. Secondly, technology transfer through so-called ‘reverse engineering’. Finally, countries will be able to research and develop technologies on their own. Therefore, tools that are known from our own history are needed, and strong organisations are needed to ensure that this happens. However, it is also necessary for developing countries to have the opportunity to use such instruments without being hindered by multilateral and bilateral legislation. Therefore, the Soria Moria Government has confirmed that Norway will work to ensure that developing countries are not deprived of the possibility of using instruments that have also contributed to making Norway a welfare country. Such a political space is one of the promises proposed by the WTO Doha Agenda to developing countries. The centre party is pleased that there is so much support for agricultural aid as part of Norwegian support for food development. Swaziland, which has been mentioned many times here today, is an example of a country with a successful agricultural and business aid programme in cooperation with Norwegian industry. It's such a developmental help the Center Party thinks we should strengthen. Swaziland will be granted increased market access through the EFTA-SACU Free Trade Agreement. Furthermore, Swaziland has good opportunities to strengthen its market share in regional trade in SACU, COMESA and the EU, with new, good production practices and systems to meet high health and environmental standards. The centre party believes that this is an example of how to create comparative advantage in a country that would otherwise depend on commodity exports. It is also an example of strengthening poor peasants without negotiating power in their societies and in the world market. That is how the Center Party believes that we should work in Norwegian development cooperation. Strengthening the negotiating power of local actors, industry and civil society — and of course women in particular — is an integral part of such success stories and of the Nordic model that the Government follows and will follow further. Let me end this article by saying that the Central Party is satisfied with the government's profile in the foreign budget, and then that we are satisfied with the clarifications that have come from Storting's treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e609	The representative Samuelsen boasts of the projects which have contributed to making Swaziland's farmers competitive and which have brought them up to a higher level and refers to the EFTA Free Trade Agreement and the opportunities for increased trade in SACU. But I still don't understand the essential. Why is it a problem for Norway to increase imports from Swaziland? Can Samuelsen explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e614	Initially, I would like to stress that Stortinget agrees with the treatment of St.prp. No 1 last year, where we invested in Africa and this in production and trade. Moreover, the size has accepted an extension of the list of countries to be based on the OECD list, which were once again based on GDP per capita. the population. So in this case Swaziland came on the wrong side of the line. But I'm going to be honest and admit that I would have preferred that the government had chosen other criteria for enlargement, criteria based on regional customs union, and especially on the UN Human Development Indicators, which would have placed Swaziland in a different place. But I underline: this is an accepted list that the department has used, and that the Storting has approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e623	Anyone in this room who has any connection to the Midwest has probably not avoided the Government's decision to downgrade the Consulate General of Minneapolis. I notice that the majority of the comments say that the ties to the Midwest are of great importance, and that it is important to have important and close links in the future. In addition, it is said to include ‘local staff’. I guess it's not that much money to save on the downgrade either. Then it might be the symbol that remains, the downgrading, which I think has already given us the loss of goodwill and reputation in the area. So my question to Samuelsen is, how is this downgrading to be understood, and is it by the heart of the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e630	Once again, I'm going to be honest and say that it would have been desirable for us to have kept the two stations that are now downgraded. But the government was facing the famous election: we've given a frame. There was pressure to get in Spain because of the large Norwegian quota that is there, which is significant, as well as China, which has evolved into a trading partner of dimensions for Norway. Unfortunately, in the elections between these countries, this had to go beyond Minneapolis and Edinburgh. That is the simple but at the same time difficult explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e636	No one else has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e639	The main profile of the Left's comments and redeployments is to promote the quality of assistance and to strengthen recipient orientation. Developing countries must decide and own their own development. Furthermore, we want to strengthen the concentration of the overall aid effort both thematically and geographically. Norway is currently providing assistance in some form to 116 countries, which is too much. Dissemination of assistance so thinly beyond can impair efficiency and quality. In addition, we have put in proposals for redisposals to strengthen environmental development cooperation. We believe that refocusing on climate action should not be at the expense of implementing the Environmental Development Cooperation Action Plan. It focuses on, for example: access to clean water and biodiversity. Furthermore, we believe it is important that the commitment to preventive climate action should not be at the expense of helping poor countries to adapt to climate change. These are mainly caused by rich countries. In addition, the environmental effort should be made more visible in the budget. Today it is spread across a number of chapters and items, which gives some poor overview. I want to emphasise that we will bet more than the Government on channelling assistance through civil society. It has been claimed, among others. by the representative, Mr Akssen, that we cut the total appropriations in the aid budget in our alternative budget. But the Left does not cut the aid. We are proposing to accept 150 more UN quota refugees, leading to ODA-approved revenues, which are included in an overall aid effort. Before commenting on some issues, I would like to say a little bit about the politicisation of the assistance. This has become a theme for the budget cycle of the year. I am very much in agreement with the Minister for Development when he says that ‘policy is the most important thing in all aid’. Neutral assistance lifted over politics, I think, is a mere illusion. At the same time, I want to warn something against the politicization we are now witnessing. Firstly, several of the Minister of Development’s initiatives contribute to removing him from the common development policy platform to which most political parties profess. I'm thinking here first and foremost about the thousandths of years. As a result, doubts arose as to whether he considered the Millennium Goals as the basis for the Government’s development policy. This was put at the forefront of the debate on his presentation of development policy. He concluded here that the Millennium Goals are still the basis. This was a useful clarification. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to recipient orientation. Most agree that developing countries themselves should decide and own their own development. It shall not be governed by donor countries which can directly or indirectly press their own political priorities on cooperation countries. The intentions may be the best, but the overall consideration for the orientation of recipients may be weakened. The left is in favour of more effective follow-up of the rhetoric on recipient orientation. More specifically, the ability and ability of the cooperating countries to make their own choices and to govern their own development needs to be strengthened. This assumes that there is a good governance in the co-operative countries, or that we contribute to it when that is not the case. Furthermore, it requires a good balance between State aid countries, where cooperation countries may influence the composition of the assistance and the thematic assistance, where the thematic priorities have been implemented in Oslo. This is reflected in the structure of the aid budget itself. Political signals are put into the budget, which the red-green government has largely followed up. This commits the budget to priorities that reflect and profile the government’s policy. The government has also placed relatively large amounts in general items that give freedom to dispose of funds on the basis of current policy assessments. This does not necessarily promote the orientation of the recipient. The left is therefore among the parties requesting a review of the budgetary structure in the budgetary position. Our concerns include: to explain how it can be set up in order to promote the ability of the co-operative countries to manage their own development. The objective is to strike a good balance between using the aid budget to provide political governance signals and to provide sufficient flexibility for cooperative countries to govern and own their development. The elected bodies should set the country's development objectives as far as possible. This gives democratic anchoring and legitimacy. We should therefore seek to avoid undermining the position of elected authorities in aid cooperation and other relations with poor countries. I am pleased that more people have become more concerned about the quality of the assistance. A repetition of the Norwegian aid debate is the objective of giving 1 pst. of gross national income for assistance. Norway is the world champion in this area, which has led to a lot of attention on quantity — and perhaps not so much on quality. The left has the goal of increasing assistance to 1 pst., but at the same time wants more attention to quality. I have therefore noted the recent criticism of Norwegian aid management by the Riksrevision for a lack of control procedures and poor achievement of targets and results. I have also noted the report by NORADS: ‘The aid is working, but not good enough’. This is the first time such a comprehensive performance report has been submitted. It points to the limited contribution of aid to economic growth. On the other hand, it contributes significantly to the survival and development of humans and countries. In particular, assistance has contributed to higher life expectancy, better health and education. In general, there is evidence that assistance provides the best results when Norway is involved at the same time in political dialogue, in technical programme development and in concrete efforts where local demand for results is required. These are important confessions. Assistance works, including: as regards the promotion of health, the situation and education of women. I hope that these and similar reports will contribute to sustained attention to the quality of the assistance. An important tool to promote quality is to strengthen evaluation and performance reporting. Information generated by this should be systematically included in the decision-making basis for future assistance. One problem here is that the government's good intentions are not followed up with sufficient resources. In 2006, 12.6 million were used. kr in central independent evaluation in NORAD, against 20 mill. in 2007. But these are disappearing small amounts when you know that the aid budget has grown to over 22 billion dollars. I believe that these independent evaluations are the most important tool for ensuring a high quality of assistance. We need to learn better from our mistakes and from what brings good results. We must also make realistic expectations of aid. Norway’s assistance amounts to less than 3 pst. of global assistance, and that is limited to what we can do with it. If we aim to save poor countries out of poverty, the conclusion is highly likely that the aid will not work. I agree that assistance works, but it may not work well enough. Aid alone is not the solution to the poverty problem, but in many poor countries it is an essential part of the solution. Finally, I would like to stress that the Left will support the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party to maintain the Consulate-General in Edinburgh. It is not clear from the wording that the Left will vote in favour of this proposal. I bring this up with proposal No. 1 in the setting where the Left is the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e688	The representative Anne Margrethe Larsen has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e693	The representative of the Left is also in the budgetary position against our commitment to Latin America on the grounds that it is politically motivated and not poverty-oriented. Of course, our commitment to Latin America is politically motivated. Where we provide assistance and how we provide assistance, of course, is a political choice. Latin America, by less than 200 million poor and therefore major challenges related to the cohesion of social, economic and poverty reduction. Does the Left believe that our political choices to bet on poverty reduction, anti-corruption, democracy building and conservation and management of natural resources – what we do to achieve the thousands of years targets in these countries – are crazy political choices? In that case, what do the Left think we should be investing in helping Latin America and the 200 million poor people to achieve the Millennium Goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e700	The left is clear in its answer: we must not spread the aid so much. It is a recognised principle in Aid Norway that we should concentrate our assistance. That is why the Left has been very clear that we want to strengthen the work that is already in Africa, and we will continue to do so. We provide assistance to 116 countries. It's too much. We should bet in some areas and succeed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e707	I'll follow up on Latin America, because I don't think the representative gave a good enough answer to that. First of all, this is about police assistance. If we're going to get there, we have to look at power and power, and give the powerless power through politics so that they can get there. For the first time ever, indigenous, poor women and poor workers have influence. For the first time, after many years of repression in the regime, these influences take place in the countries of Latin America. Is it then those who have to pay the price for bets elsewhere, in the opinion of the Left? Is it not right to provide assistance, to provide development to education-based regimes, as a rate of health, as a set of national controls on natural resources, so that they can one day not be helped?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e714	I have said several times in my speech that the developing countries themselves should decide and own their development. To me, it seems that this government is betting so much on Latin America, is more politicized than what Latin America itself might want. I say what I said instead: I think it is important to concentrate the assistance in order to achieve the best possible results. And then why don't you keep betting on Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e721	I believe that the Government has an offensive attitude towards the WTO negotiations, and has taken initiatives and tried to find cooperative structures to succeed in progress. It is then acknowledged by the Committee that an emphasis is placed on the Government's active work. But then the Left and the Opposition have a note that they are calling for a more offensive attitude from the Government. For the sake of interest, I would like to know: What measures could a more offensive attitude take? We're not against getting any good ideas, which you might have the chance to succeed with. What is it that you should have a more offensive attitude than today's government has?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e726	There is no doubt that a more offensive effort on the Doha Round is going to try to move forward in the process and get a framework trade agreement for poor countries. It seems that this government may not be fully in agreement in this area. That is why we want to be more offensive, so that bilateral trade agreements can be released, but that more countries can have the opportunity to trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e731	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e734	The budget is about politics, and there has been a good debate here today. I believe that the overall message is that there is a broad consensus on Norwegian foreign policy, a broad consensus on the main lines – and that illustrates this text. If you look at it a great deal, Norwegian foreign policy really has one opposition party, and it is the Progress Party. A very insightful representative, the representative of Höglund, marks it with his formulation: the world is as it has always been, it is ‘business as usual’. This is the understanding of the history of the Progress Party. We believe that this should be debated in depth. That is why, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have started the debate on Norway's role in globalisation. We are today publishing 200 recordings from researchers around the world on how Norway is affected by this, and I hope people will enjoy reading it. A few comments on points in the budget setting. In the case of the northern regions, I'm also satisfied that there is a broad support around the way we think there. We are now implementing the strategy presented a year ago, point by point. I see that some of the opposition parties are adding to our Northern Territory bet. I'm really happy about that. And there's a lot of interesting suggestions, let me say that -- maybe especially in the right input -- that I notice. That's a few million more dollars. But I want to say it's at the top of the half billion we've raised in place over two years, so at least there's a big shift. The importance of knowledge is important, and in particular this with the emphasis on knowledge around the Arctic – that is something I notice. In the case of Afghanistan, there is a high level of involvement. I just want to say that I also feel that there is a broad consensus. There are completely common comments about the civil and the use of resources there in this setting. I have no problem responding positively to the recommendation made by the representative, Højbrätten, on behalf of the opposition. I feel that I am barely talking about anything but the importance of civil assistance. I do not exclude that it can increase, even in 2008, beyond the framework we have now planned, because this is an operation in motion, and we must be able to be offensive. But here we're going to be able to come back in a suitable way, as the proposal is made, so I have no problem with it. What I have problems with is that Norway is not active in the WTO. We've spent a lot of time doing this. We are one of 150 countries, and Norway, like a country outside the big associations, sits on the inside of the innermost meetings, when decisions are taken. So here's Norway. We are waiting to receive negotiating documents from the negotiating management in January. We're overtime for the fourth or fifth time. So if there's a chance of breakthrough on Doha this time or not, it's still open. But we have to be prepared for that to happen. The progress party has continued to deviate. Some of the big cuts from last year have actually been fixed up, as I see it. But it's still interesting, as an expression of the world we live in, that they cut 88 pst. in Africa, 98 pst. in Asia and 60 pst. in the Middle East. The United States, a country that often inspires the Progress Party, has chosen for the first time to provide substantial financial support to the Palestinian self-government authorities — including budget support — and sees it as an important part of the follow-up to Annapolis, and will report this at the Norway Conference responsible for in Paris in two weeks. So it's an expression that in this area, economic development and peace are linked. So I'll spend some time asking questions about U.D.'s organization. You might have wanted to spend more time on the big political issues, but it's been spent on it from the opposition, and I'm going to try to answer this. I can deny that there are significant changes in the U.D.'s organization. Morten Höglund spoke of it as the Thesis of the Advancement Party. It was properly built on the Evening Post. The evening post often provides a solid basis for your own opinions, but not this time. He asks if it is an overall strategy – and I can confirm that. The overall strategy is the arrangement of the Government's foreign policy, anchored in my and the Minister of Development's statements in Stortinget. So according to the Norwegian tradition, the government's responsibility is to set up the device so that we can deliver on that strategy. But we're doing it in full transparency. Had there been significant changes here, we would have had to enter into a type of consultation with the Storting in order to inform and anchor. But I would like to remind you that the Progress Party in its budget cuts 100 million. kr on operating in the U.D. in programme area 02. For those who know the codes, 02 is what's my responsibility. And I can tell you that if you were to cut 100 million. NOK in operation at 02, then there would have been embassies and consulates in general here, if we were to cover it. So the Development Minister has the 03 area, for which he can speak. Also Right cutters operating. The representative of Vallersnes asked if the time was now perhaps in order to increase the allocation to the EEAS. It's a discussion I'd like to take internally in the Government and in the social debate. The right has chosen to cut 10 million. kr. It constitutes the operation of two general consulates – we're down on that kind of margins. That's what this is all about. I would also like to remind you that there were no increases in these budget lines in the time when the Minister for Foreign Affairs was on the Right. Our outdoor equipment today consists of 104 foreign stations. The transformations that we have proposed, the closures and relocations that have been decided upon, include four of these stations. It is the foreign stations in Edinburgh and in Minneapolis, which are not being closed but being converted. I'll come back to it. The foreign station in Tirana, Albania, is being closed down, and we're moving the foreign station in Tunis to Algeria. Then we set up a Consulate General in South China, in Guangzhou, the big city inside the mainland. We're the last of the Nordic countries to do it now. We're upgrading the embassy in Beirut, and we're setting up an embassy in Algeria. The energy country of Norway should be present. We have 633 jobs for posted personnel at our stations. The redeployments of the posts decided include less than 30 posts, i.e. 5 pst. of the total. More than half of these redeployments take place in the so-called 03 area and relate to positions at stations in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Retirement of posts takes place particularly at stations where assistance cooperation is under conversion, in Guatemala, Hanoi and Dacca. Some redisposals also happen to me – and we tolerate that. That we include: If something snaps in at the largest stations, it can hardly be called dramatic. That we reduce from 13 to 12 and from 11 to 10 in our two delegations in Brussels, the EU and NATO, is not a change of Norwegian foreign policy – it is the ability to operate our activities more effectively. Then I have noticed the proposals of the Committee's minority to change the transformation of the Consulates-General in Minneapolis and Edinburgh. The government is not prepared to follow these proposals and stand where we stand. However, I would like to stress that the «deposit» is incorrect. We want to do our problems there in a different way than what we do today. And I hope that in a few years' time we will be able to show that we can deliver a result that will preserve the strong ties we have both to Scotland and to the Midwest. The Midwest has engaged most, and it has also engaged me. And I want to say that all the dedicated posts that have arrived, and the values that are underlined in both Norwegian and American recordings, I join. I am concerned to show that no two Norwegian diplomats are required to maintain those values. Here, the Midwest and Norway share a joint responsibility to address this in a way that is forward-looking and offensive. I'm very busy ensuring a good representation in the Midwest. That is why I am pleased to be able to inform you today that Norway's honorary general consul in Minneapolis, who is to serve the Midwest, will be called Walter Mondale, former Vice President of the United States. He confirmed last night that he looks forward to playing that role. He will be supported by a consul who will do the diplomatic work. We are now going into an exciting debate between Mondale, the Embassy in Washington and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on how we set up what Roger Moe, head of the delegation that was here last week, formulated as a presence for the 21st century. I aim to be present in the Midwest when Walter Mondale takes over. We're going to have close contact on how we can follow up culture, business, technology and education. And I think we should be able to show in this way that we are faithful to the important ties to the United States, and to the important ties to this part of the United States in particular, that go both ways, that can serve everyone's interests. In the same way, I want to think about the outpost in Edinburgh, when we're going to go into it more closely. Then I would like to remind you that the previous government came to the conclusion that it would terminate the Consulate General in Hamburg, an important part of Germany to which Norway has historically strong ties. I am not asking questions about that decision, but as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I made the decision to re-establish this Consulate General, because we thought the needs were such that a Consulate General was required. We want to evaluate the effect of what we're doing to these two places, and be open to learn from what we're doing. I think it's important for the EEAS to be able to do things in different ways. I am a strong supporter of the renewal of the public sector. I don't think we need our trained diplomats here, who are going to be involved in negotiations and solve demanding tasks and problems – they are needed all over the world – to posts like those in Minneapolis and Edinburgh. There we can find new ways to do things. I hope that in a while we will be able to show all those who have been concerned that this unrest was not necessary. And if it's still necessary, we'll of course be open to consider whether we can do things another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e775	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e778	I take the Secretary of State's broad attention to these consulate questions and the arrangements of the EEAS as a confirmation that the Stortinget can and should play a role in such matters. That's good. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is paying great attention to the Progress Party – that we are making the difference in Norwegian foreign policy – and talking about our cut. We have said that wise assistance is good. We have an aid budget of DKK 13.6 billion. We're not ashamed of that. On an international scale, I believe we stand well. Trade is another area that has shaped this debate. The WTO itself was the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There have been other questions. In the Official Journal of Bergen earlier this year it was said that Norway is the world's champion in customs duties on food, and that no country can compete with us in terms of customs protection of the agricultural industry. Would the Foreign Minister see that this was different?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e787	I am concerned about being able to follow up the Soria Moria declaration, that we should be able to operate agriculture in all parts of our country. It shall take place within a standing international regime. That regime can change quite significantly through the WTO negotiations we are now involved in. As I have said in this Chamber before, no country will be more affected by changes in the field of agriculture – if they are to be as they stand now – than Norway, in terms of customs, internal support and export subsidies. The government will take part in these negotiations, well prepared for us to face that challenge. And then we have to set up as an entire nation in order to facilitate sustainable agriculture within those frameworks. Then I think we can stand by running a healthy agricultural system all over the country. There is no country going into these negotiations without having that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e794	Let me begin by congratulating the Council of State on providing Norway with an excellent honorary consul. I am absolutely sure that it will help to strengthen many bands. But I want to underline one thing. When the Council of State says that these changes also concern the device of Norwegian foreign policy, it is quite important that they are also communicated to the Norwegian magnificence in a way that enables us to look through and be asked if we agree to the change of device. That's how the embassy is set up in Dili, in Burundi, in La Paz. Some of us will ask questions as to whether it is necessary to ask so strongly in precisely these areas, in relation to meeting precisely what is a challenge in a globalised world, which is not primarily diplomacy, but is interpersonal interaction, which is research and development, which is business and bonding, which is precisely what characterises our ties to Scotland and to Minneapolis and the Middle West region. I hope the Foreign Minister will bear this in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e803	I did not understand the question, but I will remember what the representative Solberg said. Some of these stations may be argued by the Minister for Development. We're not interested in increasing the number of Norwegian foreign representations, so we're also doing savings to make this work together. There is a change in emphasis, but it is in line with the guidelines we have set out in our foreign and development policy statements. We can answer well why we strengthen the different stations as we do. But then we have to maintain old friendships, old ties, which are important to us in a political everyday life. I believe that the answer to how we maintain our relations in the Midwest is not to maintain the same kind of general consulate that we've had for 100 years, when we're in a situation where we can solve things in other ways within an economic framework, and maybe even – I'm asking you a question mark, for who knows? - Even better. When we get the kind of marking we're doing with Mondale, that goes into that problem with a great deal of enthusiasm, I think we're going to have a visibility for Norwegian interests in that part of the United States that we can get a lot more for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e812	Let me first thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for supporting the proposal to present to the Stortinget a plan for stepping up civil assistance to Afghanistan. There's a great need to get more focus on it. Then I have to say that I am not as satisfied with the foreign minister's handling of the changes in the foreign stations. This is the government's responsibility, but it's just as fully an area The Storting has had clear opinions about. And it is paradoxical that this matter of the Stortinget has been referred to most recently during this budgetary procedure, is the closure of the Consulate General in Minneapolis. It is paradoxical that that question is not at all mentioned in the Minister of Foreign Affairs' presentation of the budget to the Stortinget. I have to say once the debate has arisen: the Foreign Affairs Minister sees in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee that this is a proposal to be dealt with in the Grand Chamber, and then he comes to Stortinget with a message that his solution has already been implemented. How does the Foreign Minister think he would perceive this if he was in opposition in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e821	The last thing I don't think I'm going to wonder about, but I just want to say that on the same day that the budget was presented, we informed them that we were aiming to convert these consulates of general interest into honorary consulates of general interest. It was done in a press release that came together with the budget. That matter, in my opinion, is not at home in the budget, but it was informed about it, and there was also a debate on it in the Foreign Affairs Committee, in which a majority of the Government's proposals were signed. So there's nothing to vote on according to normal procedures. I do not think the question of the closure of the Consulate General in Hamburg came up as a decision the committee would make. This is within the prerogatives of the Government. We were quite open and quite clear about it, and I believe it from day one has taken a majority for the decision the Government has taken here, which I would say is the government's prerogative. We've been open to it, and we've been working to ensure a solution that's as good as possible, and we believe that in the Midwest, we get that solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e828	Nordic policy was mentioned, and it is still up to date. The news that StatoilHydro has entered the owner’s side of the Shtokman field with 24 pst. is initially very happy with Norway. But once that rush has settled, we need to look at what this implies by new ties to Norwegian policy. I am thinking primarily of the environment, energy, research, as mentioned, and security policy. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about his assessment of the impact this will have on Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e835	It's a big question in one minute. But it clearly matters to our relationship with Russia in the north. I could already see that during my visit to Moscow two weeks ago. I think it's an opportunity and a challenge Norway is well equipped to meet. We are used to working with Russia in the north, we know Russia better than many others know Russia in this area, and we have to move forward in a way where StatoilHydro does his job within its framework conditions, and where Norwegian policy in the field of foreign policy and trade policy is recognizable and firm towards Russia. The fact that a large Norwegian company enters into a large project does not change the main lines of our view of Russia's development, our relationship with our allies, our need for a anchoring when we deal with the North Region bet. But that gives me what I think a broad political majority in Norway has agreed on, a new dimension and new opportunities for cooperation, especially in the north. And the possibilities we would explore in an interaction between business and government, as we have a good tradition for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e850	The representative of Ågot Valle took up the fact that in Saudi Arabia, a 19-year-old girl has been punished for being raped, which shakes us all. I was also shocked that nations close to Saudi Arabia were not very strong in their criticism – to put it mildly. I'm thinking first and foremost about the United States. This was right before Annapolis, and foreign policy can be understood; however, this is sad to reflect on. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say something about whether Norway has done anything on that occasion, whether we have raised this issue at our embassy in Saudi Arabia, and confirm that we will possibly continue to address such monstrous abuses, which are not worthy of a democratic state – without suggesting that Saudi Arabia is particularly democratic?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e857	I'll give a brief answer to that. We clearly distance ourselves from the cruel events that the representative points to. In Norway, we have done what we often do in these contexts: we join the EU's action, which we believe gives a European force in the way the message is delivered. And we have joined in the clear statement the European Union has made on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e863	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e866	I must first say that I reacted very strongly to both the Right and the Left's answers to the questions we asked them about assistance to Latin America. There is a minority in the position that is moving towards aid for Latin America because it is apparently not poverty-oriented but politically oriented. Then I have to ask, what's the difference? In June, I was in Lima, Peru. I was there to tell women politicians from six countries in the Andean area about Norwegian gender equality policy. I told them about kindergartens, about paid maternity leave, about fathers who delivered children to school and kindergarten, about our health system, about school policy, about equality quotas and about schooling arrangements for women. It was dead quiet in the hall. Several girls took the word with tears in their eyes and said that they didn't know it was like this in Norway or in Western Europe. Several have later asked for ‘Women can’ courses. I mention this because an important part of our development policy is the transfer of competences and the dissemination of culture and values. Equalisation, welfare and gender equality are, in addition to good governance and economic development, important prerequisites for development, growth and poverty reduction — be it in Latin America or sub-Saharan Africa. Therefore, ‘Women can’ courses, and for that matter the setting up of ‘A doll home’ in Beijing, are ways of communicating Norwegian values. The dissemination of values such as democracy, human rights and equality are also important contributions to our international cultural work, as well as in our development work. I also want to mention the Namibian fisheries management regime, which is built on Norwegian competence, without the huge transfers of funds, to ensure a positive development in a new and fragile developing country. When NORAD last week presented its results report, it was emphasised that assistance is just an instrument, a flexible tool that can never be seen in a vacuum. Assistance needs to be seen as an integral part of our development policy, our foreign policy – even our security policy. It is important that we are concerned about the impact of assistance, that assistance should contribute to the development of poor people and poor countries. Seven years ago, the world’s leaders, including Our prime minister, the thousand-year-olds. Norway has taken on a special responsibility for maternity and child health – ensuring that children live up, reduce child mortality. If we are to achieve the most ambitious goal of halving poverty, the world community must step up its efforts, especially in Africa, through targeted assistance, but also through a combination of aid and trade. One of the main measures in the next year’s budget is the Aid for Trade programme — developing production and infrastructure to help the poorest countries actually have something to sell. A unanimous committee emphasises that the environment and climate should be the focus of development policy. We think it's important to step up further. We are talking about taking care of biodiversity, sustainable management of natural resources, the right to clean water and improved sanitary conditions. It is also important that we do our utmost to achieve the international objective of a significant reduction in biodiversity loss by 2010. When the government parties in the setting, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, enter to redeploy 35 million. To non-governmental organisations, we have also put leadership in that allocation, in the sense that we say it should be used mainly in line with the Environmental Development Cooperation Action Plan. Yesterday, Iran researcher Bjørn Olav Utvik went out in the newspaper and criticized the foreign student for having a glossy picture of Iran. I really hope they don't, I don't think so either. The justification was some decisions on asylum, or rather asylum, for women from Iran. The Committee has, in its opinion, a unanimous remark stating that a position should be set up as a foreign attaché in Tehran. We also believe that this should work together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion to get to, knowingly, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has just said, that it is the Government that decides what kind of posts are in embassies and consulates around. But that's a well-meaning advice from a whole committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e889	A well-functioning foreign service is important to take care of Norwegian interests in the international community and to assist Norwegian citizens and businesses abroad. It is particularly important that priority should be given to facilitating Norwegian business and that this should be an important area of activity. The work on crisis management and preparedness is another important area to focus on at our foreign stations. The further development of the established crisis management organisation must be prioritised both through exercises and training at foreign stations and in the ministry. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must therefore have an organisation that is fully operational and is fully capable of dealing with any crisis situation. The EEAS must at all times be aware of the tasks it is required to undertake in order to ensure the proper functioning of Norwegian interests abroad. The resources of the service should therefore be deployed where these tasks can best be performed. The Ministry has been through a comprehensive organisation to further develop the external service of an open, dynamic and forward-looking organisation capable of fulfilling foreign policy tasks and exercising professional management. An ongoing assessment of Norway’s representation and other forms of presence in different countries is very important in order to maximise the use of resources. In the context of the presentation of the budget, it was announced that the Government would convert our Consulates-General in Edinburgh and Minneapolis into honorary stations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, however, stated that our extensive interests in the United States and the United Kingdom would be well cared for, as he has confirmed here today. This is the third year that I have been responsible for the budget of the department and foreign agencies in the committee, but I have never received as many enquiries as I have now received about these consulates. The members of the Committee have received, through hearings, meetings, e-mails, letters and telephones, clear and very convincing arguments against the closure of these consulates-general. Business organisations, private individuals, national and local politicians have all been on the field and told us in clear order that these stations are so absolutely justified. The Norwegian Consulate in Edinburgh is very important for Norwegian business interests in Scotland. The oil and gas industry and the fishing industry are very pleased with the work done at this station, which has also been a hub for students and other Nordics in the area. The closure of the consulate will, after all, have a negative impact on Norwegian industrial interests in the area far beyond the limited savings resulting from the closures. The closure of the Consulate General in Minneapolis does not seem very thoughtful either. Education and research, as well as business cooperation and networking, which have been the main tasks of this station, can now be lost. Nor does it seem that the geographical location of the Consulate General, in the heart of the Norwegian Americas, has any particular significance for the Government’s decision. As a former active member of the Sons of Norway, I have seen how important it is for the Norwegian Americas to maintain culture and tradition, and that the ties between our two countries are not weakened. I had hoped that the Foreign Minister in his speech here today would reconsider his decision, so that we could draw or transmit our proposals to maintain the consulates-general. I will therefore challenge him again and ask him to think again. Is it really so important for the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to put these down? The savings are microscopic, while the consequences can be very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e908	A budgetary debate on foreign policy may be about budgetary resources, or it may be about anything else. This debate has been about much that is related to the budget, but also about a number of other things. I would like to comment on some of the things that have been said. Marit Nybakk was disappointed with the answers from the Left and the Right when it came to why priority was given to Africa and not to Latin America. The way the Labour Party questions are addressed in this debate is as if in the debate last year – where the Right was disappointed that the Government was giving too little priority to women's reproductive health and suggested more in its alternative budget – I had asked why the representative Marit Nybakk thought that more women would die in childbirth, not proposing more on that particular measure. I don't think it would have been a good way to hold a political debate, because there are millions and billions of challenges in poverty and people who have problems in the world. Norway can solve, and help solve, the problems in some of these areas. That is why we have chosen concentration, and we have chosen to be poverty-oriented. I mean, and I think that the vast majority of the opposition also believe that we are actually doing better by concentrating efforts in the areas where the development problem in the country's economy and the poverty problem goes hand in hand – and that is primarily the situation in Africa at the moment. Other words are also used, including: characterises the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee Right-wing proposals for the State budget in the area of assistance as a dramatic cut. I would like to quote Erik Solheim, who a week ago characterized the Christian People's Party's budget proposal as good and fine, it was about. Half a billion higher than the government, but he was not so concerned with this half billion, for the most important thing was that the aid worked. I would like to remind you that our proposal lies half a billion below the government. So, between the Christian People's Party's proposal and ours is the government's. I don't see it as dramatic. I think it's a little bit less, because we're less concerned with numbers and more concerned about things going to work. This government is often characterized by the most ambitious rhetoric in the world. After all, when you say that you have the most ambitious energy policy in the world, it's primarily an ambitious climate rhetoric. When you say you're going to have an active country, it's become the most active talk in the field of business. There are also a number of other areas throughout it. We in the Right have some priorities in this budget. We've added 65 million. more to the north, targeted at several different points, among others. research. We have also proposed more money in general for foreign policy research. Just these issues of globalisation mean that there is a need for both more expertise on how the world evolves, how Norway should strategically position itself, and how to weigh between interests and values in our foreign policy in the future. It also means that we need more competence, more independent environments to reach it. As the change of line with the Minister of Foreign Affairs also showed, globalisation is about cutting in many more areas than foreign policy. Globalisation is about industrial policy, knowledge policy and human trafficking. It's about lifting us as a nation up and into many more forums, in order to benefit from it in the future, among other things. to ensure the well-being of our society. This is one of the reasons why we have asked ourselves some questions about the priorities of the EEAS. Because, after all, in areas that are economically and researchingly closer to us, we should develop this cooperation more strongly. Not having a representative present that can be the small link that allows our university students and researchers to meet researchers and university students from other places, who can be simply an intermediary in this cooperation, makes it more difficult. That's one of the reasons why we haven't understood why we're going down in Edinburgh and Minneapolis, not least the Minneapolis, how big and heavy future research environments are, and where there's actually been a positive development based on the cooperation that's taken place through our Consulate General. I agree that it is initially the foreign minister's prerogative to do this, but when he says that the changes are taking place as part of a conversion of Norwegian foreign policy, where other priorities have been given, I think it is also a question for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e925	Those who have been so lucky to have been out in the landfill restaurant and tasted the herring table there, realize that there are huge resources we talk about when we talk about the north. Dear child has many names. We're talking about the Barents region, we're talking about the Nordkalotten, we're talking about Sápmi, the United States, we're talking about North Norway, we're talking about Northland, Troms and Finnmark, and we know that we've spent a long time designing a good policy up here. We know that the King has been present twice and apologized for what happened from the capital. It has been a exquisite work called ‘reconciliation’. Many in the world are amazed when they learn that we have two parliaments in Norway. The question is, why does Norway have it? Well, of course, we have it because we've designed the People's Government on the basis that we're two people. This is a fundamental work that has been done over a long, long period of time, and it has paid off that we have developed the government of the North Callot. Of course, this regime is not fully developed, but policy is at the heart of it. We know that we have both defence and security policies, we have foreign policy, environmental policy and indigenous policies. We know that the promises given must be given over many departments in order to design the best policy. One of my biggest shocks in life was when, at the age of 17, I was 18 years old, that in 1963 – when I was three years old and lived happily and didn't know anything about environmental pollution – there were tests on Novaja Semlya. They were not informed about them for a long, long time afterwards. Today, this is unmistakable with the environmental monitoring programme that is there, partly developed with Russia. So then we know – this to the Progress Party – that the world has changed. This would not have been possible today without the enormous information campaigns and, of course, the policy developed in this area. Now we've come so far that even the head of defense has discovered that North Norway is in the North. This should ensure that North Norway will have its say in this good sign. We know that Norwegian resource policy has not always been as good. We've fished up both herrings and lotions, and we know that we shouldn't be too high on pears in relation to the Russian administration regime. The Russians, when they form their democracy, will be as good in this field as we are. But we're going to assume that there are Russian power struggles going on. The Russians have to get themselves a management regime that can be parallel to what we're trying to develop. The Russians need all possible help from our side. We can almost talk about that we need an upgrade, of course not when it comes to weapons and arsenals and that type, but an upgrade when it comes to the government, not least when it comes to what is reported from, for example. Bellona and Frederic Hauge, that there are very frightful things to do with Russian volunteer organizations. These organisations need all support. I myself have visited the Russian variant of Nature and Youth in my office. What they tell you about their working conditions is quite terrible. Norwegian democracy is based on the 2000 voluntary organisations that exist in Norway, and this work must be strongly pursued. We must not let the so-called war on terrorism cause us to ignore the important work of human rights done by voluntary organizations. Now it may seem that the unilateral line that has been run over the Atlantic via the transatlantic bands we've had in recent years has partially infected Moscow. It is not easy to see if that is the case, but the Russian termination of the CFE agreement is ominous. And then we're not going to interpret it so that as a flanking country, we're necessarily going to be upgrading Kola, or we're not going to be allowed to participate in inspections. It's too early to say anything about it. But we should at least take on board that this is not in Norwegian interest at all. And it's not in Norwegian interest that the security alliance we're in is going to irritate our big neighbor in the East unnecessarily. It's not in Norwegian interest, and we have to tell you about it in all the forums where it's possible. We also see that there is an emerging opinion in the United States against rocket shields, where one has refused to allow the necessary money to develop this. We know that it is the technology industry, along with the arms industry, that most of all wants this form of rocket shield that Norway is not lit up with. We must continue with the self-imposed limitations we have had against Russia and, of course, have a solid and good dialogue with Russia in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e940	Let me start with Gates, not Bill Gates, but Robert Gates, the U.S. Secretary of Defense, who last week gave a very interesting lecture in Kansas. He says in the talk that global aid is one fifth of the U.S. military budget – not the US aid, but the world's total aid is one fifth of the U.S. military budget. He says that the US's commitment to non-military instruments in international policy has been given a disproportionately low priority compared to the military. By comparison, he says that the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs has 36 billion dollars at its disposal – which he says is less than the Pentagon's health budget. He says there are 6,600 employees in the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs and compares it to there being less than one U.S. hangar ship group. When I start there, it's because of course it would have been desirable if this kind of thinking had come in 2001, at the beginning of the Bush administration and not now. But it's still incredibly interesting that it's said. It should be a cross of thought for the Progress Party that the United States is so clear about how small aid is in total worldwide. It is not just that some assistance is being used incorrectly, but it is far too little assistance. So there's only one-fifth of what the U.S. spends on defense alone. I also start there because if there is one act our government has taken, it is, of course, seeing the different policy areas in development much more in context. A specific sample has been reduced to look at it. All that has been presented in the Great Britain by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and myself is precisely to see foreign and development policy as a whole. We have focused on many of the major policy areas that are crucial for development: climate; use of natural resources; oil for the development programme is geared towards it; trade and private investment; and, not least, the relationship between development and security at the head of Sudan, Afghanistan or Sri Lanka, to that end – in short, all these framework conditions for development. I must also say that I am very, very happy that a joint foreign committee in the position today gives its full support to this overall thinking, where one goes through the area of territory and gives its support to just seeing the link between development and all the other policy areas within the overall foreign and development policy. Let me then go over some of the issues that have been raised in the debate. Dagfinn Højbrätten was concerned about a topic I am just as concerned about, and as I know it is going to be a major topic in the climate negotiations in Bali, namely that the new strong commitment to various environmental measures – which must be financed by the rich part of the world if we are to start climate negotiations at all – not to talk about if we are going to achieve goals in Copenhagen in 2009 – cannot be taken by moving money from other development purposes. But that temptation is going to be great, and it is going to be there in almost every country. And that's all possible reason to be aware of it. Let me then just make it very clear that it is completely inappropriate for this government to take money from health measures or vaccine measures in Africa to bet in the climate. But of course, the situation is also a little bit more nuanced. A number of measures that are very favourable to the climate will also have a major development effect. If we invest more money in solar energy development in Africa, in hydroelectric development in Africa, or when we get so far that through Mongstad we have developed CO2 capture and storage and make that technology available to the poor of the world, it will both have a very beneficial climate effect and, of course, contribute to the dramatic economic growth that African countries must have. But taking away assistance, for example. to finance climate allowances and similar issues, is an out-of-date issue. Then a number of speakers have been busy trading. I'm not going to be disrespectful, but I think the name Swaziland has been mentioned several times in this debate than in the whole history of the Great Britain's nearly 200-year-old until today. And fine, then we learn a new country. Of course, no one in the government has any ambition whatsoever to keep Swaziland outside. Swaziland has been kept out because of objective criteria, which we felt would make the matter easier to expand this system, get more countries involved. It will be easier in a WTO context to adhere to objective criteria. Swaziland is thus an intermediate country. But we're quite willing in the further work to see if we can get Swaziland in. Swaziland is a current candidate in the EU context, in the EU's free trade agreements vis-à-vis southern Africa. There's no intention of keeping Swaziland out, and we'll see if there's any chance of getting Swaziland in. That being said, this, with all due respect for the Storting, is almost a purely symbolic debate. The big problem is not that we have customs barriers to the world’s poor. The big problem is that despite the fact that we don't have customs barriers to the world's poor, a police officer has to call to find a product in Rema, Rimi or ICA that comes from the world's poorest country. If anyone can go into any ordinary store, let's say Rimi, and find a product that's actually produced in the world's poorest country, then, please, come to me with it, because I want to see what it is. The real problem is not that we have customs barriers, but that it is still not exported from the poorest to the richest part of the world. It's caused by a lot of other things. I think I've mentioned it in the Storting in the past, but let me take two examples: State power, which, of course, wants to invest in the poor part of the world, feels it's difficult in many of the poorest countries. The state structure is not good enough, the market has not developed well enough, the security of investment is not good enough, and it is not a power supply system that makes it available, even if you have to create a production unit. It's the ten thousand other reasons that make Statkraft find it hard to get invested. Or Gilde Norsk Meat, who is now planning to go into Uganda. If they are to be able to export meat from Uganda to Norway, with the veterinary and environmental regulations that we have put in place to protect Norwegian consumers – I would say that a unanimous accumulation is behind them – they must start by vaccinating 2 million cattle in a large area of Uganda in order to export meat from the area where this cattle goes. They have to start by infusing the areas to ensure, of course, that non-vaccinated fees enter the area. They need to take a number of measures to look at how the meat from a slaughterhouse built in Uganda can get to the port or to the airport and get away from corruption problems, supply problems – that is, the ten thousand other financial problems surrounding such an investment that make it incredibly difficult to get to such a great thing as meat exports from Uganda to Norway would have been. I believe that through our Aid for Trade programme, we are trying to address these issues, and that this is the real debate the Stortinget should address if we want to have much more trade with the world's poor countries. And with all due respect, it happens that I disagree with the Center Party, but it is not the Center Party that is the obstacle to us being able to import from the world's poor country, but these kind of heavy economic structures that we have to turn around. Then the Left and a number of others have been concerned about the budgetary structure. Let me say that I will gladly come back with proposals for improvements to the budgetary structure. An idea that is not fully thought out, but should be assessed, is if not the most important thing for the Storting is to get a clear overview of how much money is actually spent in a country, and what is Norway's main political issue towards that country. So to say, what is our political program in relation to Vietnam or Tanzania, in the sense of what political influence we're trying to exercise, and what kind of technical cooperation do we want to have. If you get a clear overview of it, it will also be easier for Stortinget to give signals that you want something adjusted up, maybe other things adjusted down. But I'll come back to that. So the Committee has said that one wants to transfer some of the environmental funding to civil society. I see it as a modified channel selection and not a changed priority away from the environment. I'm happy about it, and I don't have any trouble with it. We are happy to be able to cooperate, especially with the Christian People's Party and the Left, on such a change. Then the Foreign Minister has been very much concerned about the question of changes in the embassy structure. Let me say, then, that when we bring up some countries, that is to say, we're betting more on, for example. Liberia – I am pleased that a number of big business representatives have agreed to this, among other things. Dagfinn Højbrätten – then a downboard in Guatemala, Vietnam and Bangladesh will be the consequence of an upscale adjustment in Burundi and Liberia. There is also an adjustment of environmental competence in part of the embassies, in Dar-es-Salaam, Lusaka and Maputho, where we want to expand much wider energy and environmental programmes and demand a much more environmental competence. Let me finally say that I have noticed that the opposition's reason for not liking the Latin America bet has changed. Originally, it was said that this was wrong because it was the government's political profile in Latin America; now it's wrong because it's taking from Africa. Nothing is taken from Africa to get a Latin America bet, but the Latin America bet is for example. an outgrown effort. Bolivia is probably the only country in the world — at least one of the very, very few — where the indigenous population is the majority of the population of the country and deserves considerable attention. This is also the main effort for biodiversity, because biodiversity is nowhere as important as in the jungle of the Amazon.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e973	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e976	Governments were concerned with trade and devalued well the Centre Party and Norwegian agricultural interest in protecting Norwegian agriculture. That's not where the problems are, says the Council of State. I totally agree. That's a lot of trouble. Nevertheless, the Council of State must agree that there are some dilemmas here. It's not that simple. If Uganda comes up to that level and solves these challenges, are we ready to accept? Is it not the case that there are quotas on imports of meat, for example: from the African countries that have done so? Is it free to import into Norway only if the veterinary and market conditions have been resolved? Are we the ones that didn't understand the context?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e981	Yes, these are very central areas for discussion. I see that we have two real, but separate situations. We have a real balance in Norwegian policy of how much we want to open Norwegian markets to imports from some middle-income countries, but countries that have many poor ones, Brazil, India and a number of others. It is a real debate that the whole of the United Kingdom is taking, and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is conducting in a number of contexts, namely how much we want to protect important Norwegian interests that the United Kingdom has largely supported, for example. on settlement throughout the country, and to what extent we will open markets to these countries, often with a significant risk of real imports coming from North America, EU countries and others. It's one debate. The second debate concerns the world's 50 least developed countries. There are no barriers to trade, at least not open barriers to trade. Some of these poor countries mean that veterinary and environmental rules are hidden barriers to trade. I can't decide. These are things that the government has decided to protect Norwegian consumers. But there's a big problem with actually getting some imports. I believe that imports from all the 50 poorest countries are 0.2 pst. of Norwegian imports, despite the fact that there are no formal barriers to trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e988	I register the Council of State crocodile tears over Uganda's problems, but Swaziland's problems are probably that they have solved all those problems and are therefore a real exporter to Norway like Namibia and Botswana. Then I am impressed by the capacity and ability of the Council of State to take responsibility for the two different departments. They're different because one has very big ambitions and small budgets. The other is more established and has a huge bag of money. On that very basis, I understand the concerns of several NGOs and the Christian People's Party over a possible redeployment of funds that were actually intended to reduce poverty. But also because the Stortinget is responsible for the allocation and control, I am interested in knowing that the Council of States can guarantee that we do not risk a combination of the budgets of the two departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e997	I can provide an absolute guarantee that this government will not propose to take money from education, health, infrastructure development or other poverty reduction in Africa to provide them with environmental measures. At least it means as much to me as I am sure that it means Dagfinn Højbrätten against. It's a completely out-of-date problem. But on the other hand, it is an entirely artificial contradiction when we talk like environmental measures and poverty reduction are different things. That's the same thing. Every UN document produced in these days just tells us that the world's poor are going to suffer from climate change. It's Bangladesh that gets the cyclones, not Norway. It is Africa that gets the drier climate and decline in agricultural production, nor is it Norway. It is the world's poorest who will really suffer from the climate warming that we now see. So combating climate change is now one of the most important poverty reduction measures we are pursuing in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1005	First of all, let me welcome the clear statement of the Council of State that it is not a matter for this government – it is totally inappropriate, said the Council of State – to take assistance from the world's poor and to use climate action in the sense that is now being negotiated. Solheim said the temptation is great. It must be extra large for a Council of States which has the budgets of both departments here in Norway, and therefore it is particularly important that he declares this out of the Parliament of the Great Britain. It's going to be demanding – I can promise – when the Council of State will fight for the two budgets in competition with each other around the government's table. Then it is important that he is first the Council of State for the Poor, and then the Council of State for the Environment. But when Solheim is concerned with overall assistance and development policy, which I fully agree with, I am surprised that Solheim and the Government not only reject Swaziland, but also reject countries like India, Pakistan, Nigeria and Vietnam, which could really have been speeded up on duty-free imports into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1012	What I can promise the representative Højbrätten is that I am going to fight with beaks and claws for the points of view that we have in common in this area, and that of course it is totally inappropriate to take from the world's poor and give to climate action. However, a number of climate action measures are also poverty measures – let us not forget that. One of the things I've been working on most since I became Minister of Development, and long before I became Minister of Environmental Protection, was trying to see if I could get more hydropower in Africa. As I have said here several times, hydropower has not been developed in Africa for the last 15-20 years. It's a clean source of energy. It is crucial for economic growth. Vietnam is perhaps the most successful country in the world in terms of poverty reduction in recent years, and it is precisely because they have got their energy to industry sorted out, etc. The development of solar energy, hydropower and various clean energy sources are both good climate policies and of dramatic importance for the eradication of poverty in Mozambique, Angola, Uganda or for that part of Swaziland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1019	The Council of State has mentioned several times the commitment to climate action. We have received a Minister of Development who is also Minister of Environmental Protection. In the wake of this, it is not unreasonable to assume that his focus on climate and environment in development policy will be even stronger. I'm glad, but at the same time I'm concerned that it won't be at the expense of what we've been talking about, another assistance. The Secretary-General of the Church's Emergency Aid, Atle Sommerfeldt, recently said that so far as the Government of African countries will take the bill for climate emissions, it is now time for the polluter to pay. How does the Minister for Development address the opinion? And again, to follow up the other replicators: can he guarantee that he will not take money from the development budget to spend them on preventive climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1026	I feel that I have answered the question several times. Let me just say what we've done now. That illustrates the point, because climate action is not something that led me to become the Minister of Environmental Protection. Fortunately, there has been something longer. This government has increased the investment in education in relation to the situation under the Bondevik government. It is true that the percentage share of education has fallen slightly, but the amount of education is larger than ever. This government has significantly increased health spending in relation to the Bondevik government. So when it comes to what the Storting is most concerned about to be at the bottom, education and health, we do more than before. We spend more money than before. We are offensive and are even going to have the conference "Education for All" next autumn in Oslo. But on top of that, we have also invested in energy development, i.e. clean energy like hydropower and solar energy, and I hope in the future CO2 capture and storage for the poorest. If there's one thing we're very sure about, it's that without this energy it's absolutely impossible for the poorest to get out of poverty. You can't drive anything in any country without energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1038	I want to take this opportunity to give Solheim State Council a new opportunity to answer my question, which he failed to do in the previous reply, namely to give the Stortinget an explanation of why the Government has opposed an extension of the building of customs barriers not only to Swaziland but also to India, Pakistan, Vietnam and Nigeria.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1043	I think it might be more correct for the Foreign Minister to give a briefing on this in a later article, but let me just say that we have established criteria for which countries we think should be included in this extended scheme. Those criteria made Swaziland fall outside. We are willing to reconsider whether it is possible to find arrangements for it. As I mentioned in my article, the EU is a possible instrument for this. They have a free trade agreement with countries in southern Africa. There is no reluctance whatsoever to take these countries in. On the contrary. It's just a question of to what extent it fits into the WTO negotiations at the moment, and I'll leave it to the Foreign Minister to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1048	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1051	The debate has so far focused on important foreign and development policy issues and revealed some interesting dividing lines between government parties and opposition. At the same time, there is reason to stress that most of the Norwegian foreign and development policy is a broad consensus here in the Storting, so let the debate not overshadow the fact. I first want to say something about the relationship between big business and government, caused by two relationships. In the setting, opposition parties have gathered on comments that address the issue of the structure of the aid budget. There are remarks that the government parties are not in, but that the government is nevertheless wise to notice. What we are criticising is the lack of transparency, the lack of coherence, the lack of clear definitions and the lack of cleanliness as a basis for following up the budget by the Stortinge, by the Government itself and by the National Audit Office. I believe that the whole area of assistance will serve to ensure that the Government goes into these comments and looks at whether it is not time to review this budget structure in general so that governance and follow-up can be clearer and better. It is not the case that this budget has been developed only under the authority of Solheim and this government. There are many who have to take responsibility for the fact that there has become such a delusion of a budgetary structure. For my part, I discovered it probably only when I came to Stortinget and needed to penetrate it from this edge. That is exactly why I feel a responsibility to tell you if it is so clear and clear that it is taken into account. And I remind you, without it being necessary, that budget structure is a classic theme in the relationship between corruption and government historically. It is one of the main premises of the Storting to be able to perform its constitutional function towards the Government. The second question I would like to raise is caused by the foreign minister's comments on the development of the EEAS. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is quite right in saying that the organisation of the EEAS is one of the government's basic legal prerogatives, i.e. that it is the Government's table. But you don't have to be much immigrated in Norwegian history to know that Stortinget has been interested in the organisation of the Norwegian foreign service, yes, it was Stortinget who took the initiative and adopted the establishment of the Norwegian foreign service. I feel a need to say that if the foreign minister is of the opinion that the Storting need not be informed about changes in the foreign service, there is a problem. If the Foreign Minister is of the opinion that sending out a press release at the same time as presenting a budget to the Stortinget where there is no split word about the changes is informing the Stortinget, it is an even bigger problem. I assume that it is not intentional on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that he can confirm that there would have been an advantage if the Storting had been informed about this in a better way than what is happening in St.prp. No 1st@item: Secondly, when an attitude is for treatment in the Stortinget and the setting is presented, and there is a proposal in the setting that intervenes in a scheme that the government has, it is common practice that the government does not implement what is intended until the debate and decisions have been taken in the Stortinget. Normal respect for the Storting suggests that you don't. The fact that you have the right to do it on a formalistic basis doesn't mean that it's wise and respectful to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1066	I am very pleased that we have found room to re-prioritize in our budgetary position and, among other things, to increase support for the Peace Corps. The Peace Corps is an important part of Norwegian development policy. They work in a variety of sectors and have partnerships in most countries. As everyone knows, the Peace Corps was evaluated in 2006 and got what we must call a brilliant evaluation, which gives us absolute reason to give priority to increasing support for the Peace Corps in this budget, so that it can deliver its programmes even better, and not least develop more. I am also very pleased that we are approaching the target of one percent of the assistance in the year's budget. As a great contrast to the increase in aid of the governing parties – and in so far as the Christian People's Party – the rough cut comes from the Right and, in particular, from the Advance Party. Overall, the Progress Party spends DKK 10 billion in the U.D. budget – most of this they take away from aid. If the budget of the Progress Party had been adopted, it would have had serious consequences for millions of people. All the cuts of the Progress Party really deserve wide publicity to get the consequences highlighted, but I'm going to focus on the cuts they're making in the region's allocation to the Middle East and to UNRWA. The promotion party's cut-off in the allocation to the Palestinian territories has been cut in schooling for Palestinian children, it is cut in health measures for sick people, it is cut in emergency aid, for example. medicines and food. The assistance we give to the area contributes, among other things. to build up the energy sector. The cuts here will mean less capacity and more unstable energy supply. The assistance we provide also contributes to the construction and rehabilitation of schools, to the training of teachers and also to the building and strengthening of democratic institutions. In addition, we provide support to ensure the payment of salaries to public employees, especially in the health and education sectors, which is a prerequisite for the provision of basic services to the population. So this is the section of the Progress Party. In addition, they cut 90 pst. in support of UNRWA, for Palestinian refugees. Norway’s active financial support for a stronger Palestinian society is more than just emergency aid. It is a prerequisite for establishing a viable and democratic Palestinian state. In order to strengthen the economy of the territories and to improve the precarious humanitarian situation of the Palestinian people, it is absolutely necessary to get some way to resolve the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians. Poverty in the area is increasing. Israel's blockades not only prevent people from moving, but prevent food, medicine and emergency aid from entering the areas. The humanitarian aid organisations have difficulties in doing their job as a result of the closures of Israel, and for a long time with the detention of the Palestinians' own tax money, as mentioned, the economic situation of the self-government authorities is serious. All of this exacerbates the situation of the Palestinians every day, and therefore helps to undermine the possibility of a peaceful solution to the conflict. Norway went ahead a short time ago and gave 168 million. in budgetary support to the self-government. It is strange that the Progress Party is now criticising this support, as both the Quartet and the donor country group call on the international community to contribute to the development of the areas, because it appears that this is precisely what needs to be done, one should be able to talk about some real opportunity to achieve peace. The World Bank and the IMF are now recommending the use of budget support as an effective mechanism to provide assistance to the Palestinian people. So the progress party is as good as alone to think that cut and boycott is the way to go in our approach to the Palestinians. It is contrary to the government's policy, it is contrary to what the Quartet and the donor country group recommend. So what the Progress Party is most opposed to is, among other things, that. The IMF and the World Bank believe will be most effective. All those who mention from the pulpit that Annapolis is important, all those who believe that we need to find a solution to the conflict and establish an independent Palestinian state, must also see that financial support for and development of the Palestinian territories is a prerequisite for achieving just that. So it does not do so, and unfortunately, it is also reflected in an alternative budget which would lead to even more need for the Palestinian people if it were adopted and which would definitely help undermine the possibilities of finding a solution to the whole conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1089	Many of us spend a lot of time at meetings in different international forums. We learn a lot from this, also that respect and understanding are fundamental to achieving results. Our ever closer cooperation with Baltic and Russian politicians shows that we can get good results for the citizens of Northern Europe. That is why the parliamentary dimension in foreign policy is important. It is important because it contributes to wide-based cooperation in areas that can only be brought forward through regional and international cooperation. International parliamentary cooperation also gives us a valuable perspective on our national cooperation. A constant challenge now is that when we parliamentarians in Northern Europe meet in Barents' cooperation, in the Nordic Council of Ministers, in the Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation and in the Baltic Sea Cooperation, it is important, in cooperation with the government side, to cultivate the distinctive character of the various forums, also in order to avoid duplication of work. The legitimacy of these bodies will include, inter alia: Depending on the fact that we're getting even more dynamic cooperation, where we can become a northern European voice that's being heard. In regional parliamentary cooperation, we spend a lot of time working out a consensus on issues we are dealing with, and we spend a lot of time on resolutions. Both in the Baltic Sea and Barents cooperation, meetings result in a joint text with recommendations to the governments of participating countries. It is important that these are followed up nationally. Prior to the meeting of the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Cooperation in Berlin in August this year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs delivered a report, following the request of the Nordic Council Delegation Secretariat at Stortinget, on how the resolution of the Reykjavik meeting in 2006 included: had been followed up. It was a short and good report. In Rovaniemi in June of this year, we adopted in the Barents Parliament a resolution on the environment, transport and health in the region – all important issues, which it is important to follow up. I know that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government will do this, but nevertheless I would ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs in an appropriate way to follow up the resolutions of the Parliamentary Barents Cooperation, but also what is happening in the Nordic Council, in the Arctic Cooperation and in the Baltic Sea Cooperation, and to continue the annual report on the follow-up of the Government to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Conference. It creates ownership, and it gives opportunities to see if what we're actually spending a lot of time on, making a consensus, is going to be something of a posteriori -- this also to see faster results.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1102	The starting point for the Northern Region Policy of the Government is referred to in the Government Declaration: ‘North regions will be Norway’s main strategic focus in the coming years. The Government will strengthen efforts to assert Norwegian sovereignty and ensure sustainable management of the rich fisheries and energy resources [[...]] So does this government follow up? Yes, the government is following up with a significant increase in bet in the northern areas. For the next year, the Government proposes to increase the bet on the North Sea measures by nearly 200 million. kr in addition to the 2007 bet. This means that in two years, the investment has increased by about 470 million. kr. Nor should we underestimate the great positive importance of increasing attention to areas. The government's increased investment in the north has given a strong and positive focus on opportunities, not constraints, in the north. Presence, activity and knowledge are keywords of the Government's bet. Oil and gas are one of the strong driving forces for north development. The Snow White field is in operation and creates a lot of activity in Finnmark, but also has ring-fenced effects for the rest of the country. The Skarv field shall be operational in 2011 and will generate a high level of activity in Northern Ireland. The Shtokman field shall also be operational gradually and will create major and positive ring-effects for the entire North Callot. In the 2008 budget, the Government proposes to allocate 140 million. kr for continued seismic investigations in the fields Nordland VII and Troms II. As politicians, we need to focus strongly on the fact that oil and gas activities also contribute to land-based activity in the region. Our bet in the north shall be much more than petroleum activity. It must also focus on other industrial activities, on the environment, on climate, on cultural exchanges and on health and education cooperation. Northern Region policy must also focus on people. Better economic, social and cultural development shall contribute positively to the living conditions of all people living in the northern regions. Fishing and farming mean a lot in North Norway. There are still strong fishing environments in the region that need to be further developed. Therefore, it is very gratifying that in the budget for next year the Government proposes to allocate about 5 million. kr to scientific equipment for fisheries research at the College of Bodø. We have to build on the advantages we have in North Norway. The region has a modern, knowledge-rich industry. This applies both in the power-processing process industry and in the maintenance and supplier industries. These industries must be further developed and provide a good framework for further development. There's optimism in the north. We have noticed that the country now has a government that is playing with the part of the country. After the red-green government took over the autumn of 2005, there is more optimism and hope for the future in our northern part of the country than it has been for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1127	I would first like to commend the Government for the clear and visible increase in activity internationally, whether in the North, NATO, UN, Europe and EU reform, climate change or initiatives and contribution to conflict resolution, such as. in the Middle East. International cooperation is important to safeguard Norwegian interests, but it is also important for the values on which we believe that international solutions and development should be based. We must use all available arenas for influence and influence, at Nordic, European and transatlantic levels and at UN level. The possibility of influence has less to do with land size than with the offensive attitude and the values with which you go into discussions. Adequate resources are needed both to follow up increased Norwegian ambitions in the international arena and to ensure effective assistance. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is involved in stressing this in terms of assistance. The right and, in particular, the Progress Party has smaller ambitions and cuts in the necessary administrative capacity, which they consider to be too extensive. This seems all the more strange when they have major objections to small redeployments the government has done within the consulate structure. The opposition is not even able to find funds of what they call small amounts for their own positions on increased diplomatic activity, but leaves to the Government to take responsibility for the containment. In the context of today's form of EU membership, through, inter alia: The EEA Agreement provides for an active European policy for red-greens. The main aim is to take care of Norwegian interests and influence decisions in the EU, which we know are increasingly having consequences for Norway. The basis for European policy was presented in a communication that Stortinget dealt with this spring. At the same time, the government invited Stortinget to strengthen its involvement and to extend its anchoring in the European Union and EEA affairs. There has been unanimity on this approach. The government has followed up its ambitions and obligations to the Storting in a good way. Last Friday, the Stortinget also adopted the necessary formal changes in its handling of EU and EEA matters that allow earlier involvement and wider anchoring in trade union committees. I am pleased that the Government has found room for increase in grants for information on European cooperation, both in the previous and current budgets, in order to create more transparency and debate on relevant issues. A new EU reform treaty is in place. It is necessary for the Government to analyse its importance for the development of EU cooperation and for Norwegian policies in relation to the EU and the EEA and to communicate its assessments to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner. Norway will contribute large amounts to achieving economic and social development in the new EU countries, which are also part of an enlarged EEA. We mainly have one labour market in the EEA, of which Norway also benefits greatly. But we also have challenges, such as social dumping, that we have to work against. In this context, I believe Norway needs to support the social dialogue in Europe, an area where we have great experience of tripartite cooperation, competence and good results to point to. I am therefore particularly pleased that the Government of the budget has allocated funds to the social partners to promote social dialogue and cooperation with the parties of the new EU countries in Central Europe. I would also like to mention the need to stimulate bilateral cooperation projects — including the social partners’ target groups — in the renegotiations on the financial instruments for the central European countries of the EEA. As mentioned earlier in the debate, the northern regions are one of the most important areas of action in the field of red-green. This includes Russia as a strategic partner in environmental issues, management of fish stocks and extraction of energy resources. Cooperation with Russia is in good development. I participated as a short-term observer in the Council of Europe delegation to the elections to the Duma last Sunday. In view of the main features of economic growth and political stability, President Putin and the party he fronted, United Russia, were given a large majority. This was not a surprising result, according to most commentators, on the basis of an assessment of the President's real agreement. However, the election implementation was widely criticised by both the OSCE and the Council of Europe for not having satisfied international standards for democratic elections, mainly related to the pre-election period, including the following: control of the ether media, an electoral system favouring the largest parties, abuse of participants in demonstrations and both threats to opposition candidates and pressure against voters. Russia must facilitate this criticism from the Council of Europe, of which they are a member, in accordance with the Convention obligations they themselves have signed. My point here, and then with the northern regions as an example, is that Norway and Europe must continue to develop cooperation with Russia on the basis of mutual dependence and common interests, but at the same time continue to provide clear criticism of violations of international conventions and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1165	I want to use this opportunity to focus on the northern regions. Two years have passed since the government launched its Northern Territory Strategy. This strategy has been followed up by nearly half a billion dollars in funding, as well as strengthening the municipal economy throughout the country. That means in sum that we're in the right path in this work. I noticed that the Progress Party and the Right proposed greater appropriations for the northern regions last year than this year. I take that as a recognition that the government's appropriations have a visible and positive significance. Nevertheless, I do not want to hide the fact that the Centre Party is impatient, not least because we need to strengthen the infrastructure of the three northernmost states, so that the area can fill the role it is intended to play as a centre of gravity for the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian industry in the time to come. In the media, there has been a significant focus on oil and gas — a bit of a sluggish, in my view, because the total amount of resources in the north is significantly larger and includes more than just oil and gas. If we're going to get this done, and I understand that's a common desire in this room, we need an infrastructure that connects the states. We have to bet that we get an activity on land that aims to be there far beyond the age of petroleum. In this context, we need to mention the mapping of the areas that we're set to preserve. So as an example here, we have a Svalbard zone that is almost blank when it comes to charts. If we are to safeguard interests, sovereignty and the environment, we must at least have a chart that allows us to move into this area with a reasonable degree of certainty. We know that the area is attractive in tourism contexts, and that we have an increasing visit of major tourist ships. It is a paradox that the Sjökartverket's own boat went due up there during a visit last summer, because there was not enough charts. We would like to put forward the idea of a rail link between our northernmost parts and Russia in order to strengthen cooperation and to further develop the business perspective with our large neighbour in the east. I would like to refer to the former Foreign Minister Stoltenberg's speech in Tromsø in 1992, where he pointed out the same opportunities that are present in the north that I've been in, and where he highlighted people to the people-cooperation at regional level. I think we can show that we have good experience in succeeding with a number of projects in the north. Ports and fairways need to be strengthened, and not least, as others have mentioned in today's debate, we need to strengthen R & D activities, which will be a basis. Arctic agriculture is a basic element of the Arctic menu. There we can present a gourmet product that has taken great interest in the rest of Europe. Finally, let me mention in a parentheses the Barents Institute, which has had a bit of a long birth, and which you should now focus extra on in the time to come, in order to get it really on your feet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1188	As usual, when the Storting debates foreign policy issues, there is broad consensus, with the exception of aid policy, as well as in the current budgetary debate. NATO and the UN are the pillars of Norwegian foreign policy. However, Norway must also pursue an active European policy, which we have discussed several times in this Chamber. Norway must pursue an open, clear and active European policy that ensures Norwegian interests towards the EU and that contributes to development in Europe. If we are to succeed in this, Norway must have good relations with countries that are important to us. In addition to the unique relationship we have with other Nordic countries, Germany is Norway’s main partner in Europe. I am therefore pleased that the government launched its own German strategy earlier this fall, or corrects: relaunched the German strategy. It's kind of strategy no. 2 which was now launched. If I am not mistaken, the new strategy was presented during the state visit to Germany in October. Germany plays a key role in the development of the EU and Europe. At the same time, the bilateral relationship between Norway and Germany is very good. Norway can thus also play an important role in Europe’s development. The relationship between Norway and Germany is therefore important, not only in order to safeguard its own interests, but also to be involved in development across Europe. Germany is becoming an increasingly important partner for Norway – political, economic, cultural and academic. Almost 30 pst. Norwegian gas exports are now going to Germany. In a short time, one third of the gas consumption in Germany will come from Norway. This is not only about the supply of gas, but to a large extent also about technology development. Germany cuts its CO2 emissions by shutting down coal-fired power stations and replacing them with gas-fired power stations with gas from Norway. It's good for Norwegian business. This is good for Norwegian exports. This is good for Norwegian research environments. That's good for Germany. And -- not least -- that's good for the environment. I have registered that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a very good relationship with his German colleague, who is now also German Chancellor of State. That's good. Norway and Germany are close allies on foreign and security policy issues for the time being — I would say closer and closer allies. Europe is changing, and NATO is changing. Thus, the special and unique position played by the United States for Norway and a number of other European countries will also change. Here Germany becomes an important partner for Norway. I want to add: maybe the most important one. Let me also remind you that half a million German tourists visit Norway every year. Half of all foreign tourists in Norway are Germans. This gives enormous opportunities for Norwegian travel. I could have continued with the interest in Norwegian culture in Germany, the interest among German students to study in Norway and the interest in Norwegian literature in Germany. Many Norwegian authors are selling phenomenally in Germany for the time being. I wish the Foreign Minister every success with the German strategy. This will be important – perhaps more important than we can imagine today. In today's debate, many have spoken about the Consulates-General in Minneapolis and Edinburgh. I guess that's good. But I would like to remind representatives from the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party that the previous government put down the Consulate General in Hamburg. That had to be restored by the present government. There might be reason to go a little bit quieter in the doors.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1214	In view of the lack of clarity of the agreed debate, the President will propose that there should now be no reply to comments from members of the Government – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1217	I am using the opportunity to comment on some of the posts that have arrived. The representative, Mr Brørby, recalled the importance of following up the recommendations of the parliamentary assemblies we have in our region. This applies to the Nordics, and also to those in the Baltic Sea region and the Barents region. It's a very good reflection of something that I think we're concerned about, but that I'm going to focus further on after that reminder. It's an important element. In the case of the consulates-general, there are difficult balances. I admit it. Had it been so that we had no financial framework that created challenges for us, we could always be in a situation where we didn't have to make such priorities. The previous government let down the Consulate General in Hamburg, but also in Hong Kong and Miami. It also triggered reactions. I mean at the same time that we shouldn't just look at this from the perspective that it's an economic necessity; it also gives us an opportunity to show that we can do things in different ways, solve problems by organizing us differently. I have to tell Mr Vaksdal, the representative of the Progress Party, who will cut 100 million. kr on operating in the U.D., in my area of responsibility – I know all of the members of the Advance Party on everything related to assistance and the type of activity – that 100 million. kr on the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on operations, there are embassies in Europe and foreign stations a lot. We haven't got any focus on that. It is, I believe, not as the representative Solberg says, that the closures are the result of changes in Norwegian foreign policy. Norwegian foreign policy, through the presentations we make, and the policy of the Government, requires the presence of new regions, as a result of the world we live in. The Progress Party believes that it does not change, and that it is business as usual, but we believe to record that that is not the case. So I'd like to say to the representative Høybråten that there's an interesting discussion he's drawing up, about India, Vietnam, etc., in addition to the MUL, plus this GSP theme. But – as the Minister for Development said – this is a WTO issue for the time being, and if Norway were to go in and say that we are doing the same thing to India as we are doing to the MUL countries, i.e. within the GSP, then I think we would break a sequence in these negotiations that would be unwise to break. India is also a significant negotiator – counterparty and co-participant – for Norway in these negotiations, and we await the results. Then I notice with respect the perspectives that the representative of the Højbråten drew out on the relationship between government and magnification. There are quite clear wise assessments of what is going on in structure, and I think that's what the Minister for Development and I'm going to take us along and take a closer look at. As far as the budget is concerned, it should be available, and, as the Højbråtten says, it can be seen differently when you get back into a staging position. We're going to take it with us. As far as the consulates in general are concerned, one might think that this should have been in St.prp. No 1st@item: Now, at least the Storting has used the setting to give an opinion about it. I have followed this very carefully, and I have read what has come of the recording. I've said here today that the essence of the strong commitment, both around Edinburgh and Minneapolis, we're taking with us the solutions we're in favour of. So just a little bit: it's not like the government has formally taken action. I remind you that these consulates in general are going to be a good deal in 2008. I could today inform the Storting that Walter Mondale has made himself available to be our honorary general consul when the conversion takes place. But I have taken the time to listen to the debate here too, and I would like to stress that it is really an exciting development task we now have – how we shape that Consulate General. Let me say to Stortinget, with whom I want to have the closest possible cooperation, that I would like to have a dialogue with the Stortinget in the future about what it's going to look like, and how we're going to use the resources. I'd like to remind you of that. There's a saving in the conversion we're doing now. But I'm going to say that that saving doesn't go into zero, that is. that we can use resources from that savings to make the presence meaningful and effective in relation to our needs, both in Edinburgh and in the Midwest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1240	I also want to use the opportunity to comment on some of the things that have been up in the debate, which I did not get in my first post. Let me first just further elaborate on what the Foreign Minister said about our presence at the embassy. It was said earlier that we had created embassies a number of places – Burundi, East Timor, etc. That's not right. The foreign minister and I have taken the initiative to do this is that the EEAS needs to become more flexible. I have to say that one of my sources of inspiration in this area -- it will certainly surprise the Stortinget -- was, by all people, Condoleezza Rice, who gave a lecture on American foreign service and how it had to adapt to a new era. The centre of gravity in the world is moving between parts of the world, you're constantly getting new needs, new themes come up that you're not adapted to. It is also a challenge for us in Norway, and an instrument then is to be somewhat more flexible than we have been. I have come back from Bolivia, where I think we have found a solution that should inspire to do similar things elsewhere instead of creating a full embassy, which in practice is sending down an art committee to take out the ambassador's residence, figure out which art to hang on the wall, how the gardener should cut the lawn, etc. It costs millions of dollars to create an embassy, it costs millions of dollars to put it down, and it'll be a huge political question when you put it down. Instead, we've got an embassy section in the Swedish representation in Bolivia. We have a fly in it. That means that watchmaster service, car service, central table service, IT service, etc. We pay the Swedes to deliver, and then we are inside them. We can't do that in big and important countries, but we can do that in countries where we want something less than a full embassy. Similar things we have tried to achieve – not so successful, perhaps – in Burundi and East Timor. In Liberia, which is a bet country, we will try to find a more flexible solution in cooperation with the embassy in Abidjan. This kind of flexibility, I think, is the future. So we're not talking about Washington or London or Paris, but the breadth of many countries in the Third World that we don't have much to do with anything else. So many, including Dagfinn Højbråten in their last post and the Left too, have been concerned with the budgetary structure. Let me just once again make it clear that we will come back to that. I agree that the budgetary structure is very inconclusive. I think, based on my experience after many years as a magnificence representative, that what Bigthing most needs is a clearer explanation of how much money we spend in each country, how money is spent, and what are our other political issues there. I myself remember my own experience: every year when I was a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I suggested that we increase our efforts in Uganda and make Uganda the main co-operation country. It was refused to make Uganda the main co-operation country every year. However, in a short time, the amount of money spent by Norway in Uganda was much higher than in many of the countries that had the status of main cooperation countries. It was not called the main co-operation country, but only spent much more money in Uganda than in the main co-operation country. It's the kind of thing that I think misleads more than that supervisor. So we have a hopeless debate on countries of cooperation, and so on. Instead of looking at what is the political issue, and what is the use of money. My basic idea is to make this clear, so the Storting will have a chance to handle it, take a decision on it and provide guidance to the Government on any changes to it. But this debate should go between big business and government and the public in the future, and then we will of course come back to it in a formal way towards the Storting next harvest. Finally, about Norfund, which many people have been involved in. Norfund has informed me that they will not be able to achieve the MUL target as the Stortinget has set it for 2007. This is due to a specific, large investment in hydropower in the Philippines. This investment itself is so big that it is impossible. But what I see as the Greatness's point of view, which I take with me to Norfund, is that we're going to try to get as good as possible, a greater bet on the poorest countries, especially in Africa. We will try to achieve this in such a way that it does not impede the purely private investment in middle-income countries that Statekraft can hold, nor the kind of private/public partnership in middle-income countries that the combination of Norfund and Statekraft, possibly Norfund and other private Norwegian energy companies, can lead to. For international experience in recent years, it is extremely difficult in the poorest countries to obtain purely private investments in hydropower. It is public/private partnerships that have made real investments. This applies both to middle-income countries and, of course, to the poorest countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1257	The Minister for Foreign Affairs was shocked by the fact that the Progress Party has cut 100 million. kr within his territory, which would result in the closure of embassies and consulate-general. To that it's just saying that there's a whole in our alternative state budget. We also greatly reduce aid and aid. The result of the reduction is that there is no need to be present at all places receiving assistance. So here it all goes with everything. In his first speech, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was concerned about the consulates-general, that they had to do the problems in a different way. I fully agree with that. Of course, when you put the consulates down, the problems have to be solved in a different way. That doesn't mean they're better solved. Sweden has done the same exercise. In 1989 they closed the Consulate General of Minneapolis. The whole of Sweden lost it, it was the experience that Sweden did. Then it would have been interesting to know what kind of impact studies the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in connection with the closures. What kind of dialogue has there been with the business community in Norway, Scotland and Minneapolis? What analysis with a background in, for example, what Sweden has done, has it done before it has done this? In other words, I miss a professional reason. This is probably the theme that has dealt with the Foreign Affairs Committee most – through consultations, through letters, through all the input they have received from the budget – but I notice that there is not a single word in the government budget about this. I think it only testifies that you have a lack of respect for the Storting when you from the Government can allow yourself such a thing. Now I'm in the Business Committee, and the members of the Business Committee have also received a number of input from those who are concerned about what's going on. When you look at the setting, the proposals that have been taken up by the minority are just about the consulates in general. So I think it's a strange way the government has gone forward. Then it's positive that you've found a former, relinquished politician to top the team in Minneapolis. I think that's quite interesting, but the sad thing is that the team that you're topping with a fired player has actually gone down. It must be better to strengthen the whole team and make sure you're in the division where you actually belong, and not make sure you lose all your influence. For what is important for business is that you attend to and maintain and promote Norwegian commercial interests, that you do the job to do to promote the interests that are, and that you also focus on possible educational cooperation. In Scotland, the maritime industry is the most affected. It's an industry that's one of Norway's most important, where we're world leaders. Now we make sure that we are not present in one of the most important countries where we are producing farmed fish. Scotland and Edinburgh are very important in relation to the EU and on the issue of access to Norwegian salmon in the EU, and it is of course also important to be there. I think it is important that the Norwegian Foreign Service focuses more on promoting Norwegian business interests abroad. Because there is an increasingly global competitive situation, we need to recognise that Norwegian companies are experiencing an increasingly tougher market, and the resources that the Government can contribute to are also very important. As the Minister of Foreign Affairs was in, the stations are not shut down until once in 2008, in other words, until next year. I just hope that they stay there until next year's budget comes, and that they've made about the mistake you're now making.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1280	I would like to stress what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his first post, that the structure and creation of new embassies, etc. were linked to changes in a foreign policy image, and not necessarily a deprioritisation of the place where you were and no longer should be, but that it happens because new tasks arise. It's exactly related to another discussion that's going on in this room, that's how many places we're going to run assistance. How many places, how much are we going to stretch out? It also has to do with saying that when we say more concentration, more competence in those areas, and not least better supervision and competence to review whether the money is spent wisely, yes, then we actually need a minimum crew that is so large where we go in, that we need to concentrate our efforts. When the Minister for Environment and Development stresses that we have changed the argument from last year to this year, I will continue to state that the reason we are now breaking the old principles we have had about concentration, and concentration on poverty and Africa and development issues in development policy, is political, by the fact that today's government will go into countries where there is political sympathy with the regime and the system. But it is at the same time in violation of the principles that the Stortinget was quite broadly agreed on in the previous period, of priorities and of concentration. And so it has a cost side on the administrative apparatus. So I know that in every government you count by dividing the 02 and 03 ranges, because it goes into different statistics. It doesn't impress me. It only impresses those who don't talk about assistance being effective, but only that assistance is a symbol of a will, or that you have to reach a so-called 1 pst. goal, and that you can put something into the percentage that you can't do on the other. This means that what is now done in the distribution of resources has as a consequence, among other things. that some other areas that I think we should attach greater importance, namely our research cooperation, our industrial cooperation, the use of the Nordics – as other countries think of their diaspora population, as an influence in the largest, perhaps the most important countries in the world in terms of political influence – leave us to be of importance. We may be able to get a good transition, but in the long run it's going to be like the Swedes themselves think it's going to be a bad contact after the downgrading. In particular, they note in the field of education, in the field of research, where it has been stated that no new research initiatives have been taken in the 10–15 years since their closure, because they do not have the same way of building contacts. Now I'm not going to take too good fish all that's being said, but I think it's right, because our research institutions don't have the big profit either, at least not under this government, to take all the initiatives they would like to cooperate with others, when the budgets are cut at the same time. That's why this is related, and that's why I think it would be right that we also had a discussion about these great principles about how we're going to develop, and what should be the most important issues in our foreign policy in the future. Because it is enough that we downplay our need to have a follow-up foreign service in relation to our goals of participating in globalisation. This may not have been the case in the field of foreign service, either, because it has not been the common practice in diplomacy, where foreign policy issues are more concerned, while national interests fall within the portfolios of completely different departments than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself. But I want to stress that it is with concern that I see that we may gradually thin out in many areas because we are spreading too much in the area of assistance, and we have less opportunity to follow up on what is our interests. However, I would like to say that I think it is good that a new consulate is appointed in South China, because it is in line with an internationalisation strategy. I fully agree that we should have more flexible external services. But please understand that the Big One should be involved – even though the final decision is not necessarily the Big One’s, and not the details – because when you create something new, the phase changes. It's not a broad majority of the expansion that is now being made of activity in Latin America, which is thus contributing to the need to slow down activity elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1293	As far as the representative of Solberg is concerned, I fully agree. Let us have a debate on foreign policy arrangements and the importance of globalisation for it. I have tried in an article in the newspaper today to draw up some lines around it. We will have a debate later this afternoon at the House of Literature on these issues. Erik Solheim and I have taken the initiative of openness, discussion, lighting, criticism, new ideas all over the country from day one since we came to the department. I have to tell the representative of Korsberg that 100 million. NOK 02 – this is a tribal language, but we are part of the same tribe that reads budgets – there is really nothing to do with assistance, except that in my budget I actually have assistance in Serbia, aid in Central Asia. But to cut a hundred million. 02 is something that will mean – regardless of what happens to ODA-approved assistance, and all that can be financed from that budget – deep cuts in Norwegian presence in Europe or in Asia, China, those areas, or whether it is the United States. It is at the heart of traditional foreign policy. So we're going to do what we can, as I said, to make those who are worried, calm about the Midwest. Sweden dropped in 1989, and the whole of Sweden lost it. What source is that? I have seen what this one representative has written about it. I have consulted the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Swedish Foreign System to hear more about it. When the Swedes decided, after careful consideration, to upgrade their presence in the United States, they landed at a Chicago Chamber of Commerce. There they saw their best interests served. So I don't think that picture is that clear. Norway has more diplomatic presence in North America, in the United States, than all our Nordic neighbours. They're emigration too. We now have a Consulate General in Houston, New York, San Francisco, and we're going to have a presence in Minneapolis. Then I just have to say: I take a great distance from the term «former, relinquished politician». I think we'll get a completely different type of person to do with Walter Mondale. With regard to Scotland, the representative of Korsberg says that we will not be present in one of the most important countries involved in farmed fish. Some politicians in Scotland might like to hear that, but Scotland is not yet a country. Should Scotland become a country, I can promise that Norway will be back with diplomatic representation. If we are going to experience – and I am going to be naked here – that we are losing along different dimensions not to be there, we have to evaluate it very carefully. But we are very heavy in the United Kingdom. When I look at the numbers of our presence in the United Kingdom and the resources we use there, I think there's reason to ask questions. Well, it's significant in terms of how the world has changed. So we're going to have the ability to follow up this very thoroughly from London, and we're also going to be present in different ways in Edinburgh. So I think the representative of Solberg raises an important question that we can well get back to at a discussion in the Storting – even if, as was said here, it is the government's prerogative – this with minimum staff. I also see, I also observe, that small stations, maybe just with two outcasts, often spend a lot of time on self-administration, and then the question is, are you going to organize something more in such hubs, where you can cover more? It is a relevant theme in Europe. To date, our perception has been that we should be in all EU countries and all NATO countries, but I think it is a realistic question that can be asked without prejudice. Should you rather organize this something more in clusters of power? Let me just say something about the concentration of the aid. This will allow the Minister of Development to answer in more detail. I believe that although we are a large aid operator per capita – and some of this is in my area too – we are small. It is never the case that the Norwegian contribution is crucial to whether it becomes such or not. Then it's not that if we go from working with 100 countries to working with 30, it's going to mean night or day for the 30. Often, the different support we put in a different way can have a crucial political significance or in an area where we choose to give priority, where the sum itself is not crucial. I've observed, for example. What we get in Serbia, where we spend about 70 million dollars. kr. It has great political significance. It's other places we can use more, and it's less important. This is a continuous assessment we have to do all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1310	Fortunately, after listening to today’s debate, I can conclude that there are others in this room who know more about foreign policy than I do – and well that is. It is probably also a fact that much has been about the role of the Progress Party and the image of what is happening in foreign policy. It is that some people think that we do not actually have a foreign policy, but when you look at the focus it has been given today, it must be a fact that we have it, and that in such a way that it provokes some others. For my part, I have to admit that I could not do much about it. I can do a little more now as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. That's what I think has been instructive, interesting and not least challenging. One of the things that I've been most concerned about, when you have NATO-led operations, is to be able to balance the military and civil efforts at the same time. That's also one of the reasons why I had an interview about this for a while back, to challenge the Minister of Justice and others on how to find a good balance point. I was in Washington last autumn at the Transatlantic Forum in NATO, which discussed just this. I clearly perceived that NATO is struggling to find a good, functional, operational balance point between military and civil efforts. It's possible you can fight for peace, but I don't think you'll get a lasting peace if you don't at the same time manage to build up the civil dimension, which shows that it's possible to find good solutions, which can take care of those who live there. Without that, I think you will continue to wage war to a great extent, and that will not help the people of the countries affected by it. In this way, I think the answer is to focus more on finding the exact balance point you want. I also see that we are lucky in Norway in many ways. Fortunately, we have many good people here who care, who are engaged, who like to work outside, and who want to take a roof to just establish some of the values that we are proud of – our democracy, the rule of law, and so on. When it comes out, you have the foundation in a state of law. It's absolutely necessary, at my discretion, to make things work. In this way, I think it is good that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice have cooperation in this respect, for example. The power well, which sends people out to assist precisely with these things. Besides that, of course, we can discuss heads and ears. We can discuss principles and these kinds of things, but at the end of the day, it's actions and what we're doing to back up every word, which might give results, or not produce results. So I hope that for the future, too, you can keep focus on the most important thing, namely to establish good solutions, have good partners who not least manage the large appropriations that go through this house and run out to various projects outside. To have trust and legitimacy in Norwegian society, at least I assume that the citizens are nodding to what is being done. The day they say no, it will give everyone in this assembly a big challenge. There are a lot of people here who are busy giving, and giving a lot. At the same time, I believe that the requirement must be that we assume that these funds will be made available to the appropriate recipient. There can't be anyone who puts them in a random account that only they have access to. At least it doesn't take care of the rest of the population, although it can give a few lives in luxury. In other words, the more we manage to ensure the quality of the assistance we agree to provide, the better our reputation will be – and not least the legitimacy of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1331	The debate is probably coming to an end. I shall not try to extend it, just briefly commenting on proposal No. 5, from Dagfinn Højbråten. First of all, I would like to state that I believe the Government has been very good at informing and keeping the Storting updated on the strategies in Afghanistan. Today, the Foreign Minister has also confirmed that there is an activity that will continue, either in the form of distributions in the enlarged Foreign Committee or directly in the Chamber. That is the basis for turning this into a transmission proposal. However, if the proposer wants to stick to the proposal, I cannot see any reason why the government party should vote against it, because we are all concerned with achieving a better balance in relation to this. I think, in general, that this debate has shown that there is a great deal of clarification about the policy of the Government in the field of foreign affairs and the priorities set out in the budget. There have been a slightly different signal from the Progress Party. I mean that the last post from Jan Arild Ellingsen actually gets closer to what's the general hold in this hall, than the Progress Party or else would like to express. I also agree that we must have an interaction between military and civil solutions in most conflicts, but then we cannot vote for dramatic cuts in transfers to aid, as the Progress Party does. Mr Korsberg says in his speech that everything is related to everything when he analyses his draft budget for the Progress Party. I guess the truth is, there's nothing to do with it. Because here's a high cigar lead, and the government criticises the use of some resources, while at the same time having a very large cut in the same areas, without being able to document what these cuts will contribute to. So you need an analysis from the Government's side when it comes to moving money, but you don't even have an analysis, either of how these cut by 100 million. kr for operation will work, or by what, for example. will have an impact on the Palestinian refugees of the dramatic cutoffs the Progress Party has against that group. On the contrary, it seems that a de minimis measure of the effects of own cuts or a distance from the effects of own cuts. So, it's not that everything is related to everything. In the draft budget of the Progress Party, there is nothing related.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1340	I'm not going to try to get the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee to understand the budget of the Advancement Party, because unfortunately I don't have that long speaking time, and I don't think the interest in understanding it is so much present either. I just want to comment on some of what was said by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I record that he did not respond to the impact investigations carried out by the Government regarding the closure of these two general consulates, even if there has been a dialogue with the business community, nor if there has been any analysis based on what the Swedishs had done, except the phone he took. So he has not provided any professional justification. There's not a single word about it in the budget, but he could still fire an ointment from this pulpit on the grounds of laying down these two consulates in general. I think that's pretty thin. I just want to point out that in the case of Edinburgh, FHL, the National Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture, strongly warns against doing so because it will affect Norwegian interests. So there's been a lot of warnings. But if you choose not to take someone on board before doing anything, you'll discover the noise afterwards. Then you can shoot quite strongly from the Storting's pulpit, but the reality is that this affects Norwegian business interests, and that's what worries me. Then I was criticized for saying something about Walter Mondale. To put it in a slightly different way: does he represent the future of Minneapolis, both in the short and long term? As I see it, he does not. It depends on being present, building up a network – because it is a network that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is constantly repeating – and then Minneapolis and Edinburgh are an important part of that network. And I think it'll be a little special when you defend so strongly what you've done when you haven't mentioned it in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1349	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 990]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1365	Svalbard is a very important part of our northern areas, and for the Government, it is a matter of course that a sustained investment on Svalbard is also a central part of our political Northern Region initiative. There is a broad political consensus in the Storting that sovereignty should be managed consistently and firmly, based on the Treaty, that calm and stability in the area should be sought and that it is essential to preserve the special nature of Svalbard. It is therefore necessary to take strong environmental considerations into account. There is broad agreement on the need to take strong environmental considerations into account in the management of Svalbard. It's e.g. important now when Svalbard experiences increased tourism. We need to facilitate the development of travel life as a fuel for Svalbard. At the same time, tourism must be managed and not developed to an extent that could threaten the specific nature of the area. It may work far from Svalbard to Bali, but the success of the Bali summit could be measured on Svalbard first. We know that climate change impacts become visible on Svalbard faster than elsewhere, and they also have drastic consequences for nature, the environment, settlement, indigenous peoples and businesses in the Arctic unless greenhouse gas emissions are reduced. Svalbard experiences an increased flow of climate researchers studying the effects of the changes in the area, precisely because Svalbard is one of the places that will mark the changes first and is highly vulnerable to the consequences. Therefore, the conservation of Svalbard and its nature, as we know today, requires not only strict classical environmental protection, the sustainable exploitation of marine resources and the regulation of tourism, but definitely binding international cooperation to limit climate change. In this year's budget, the Government proposes changes to the tax system for Svalbard. The changes will make the tax system simpler, which in turn will help to maintain and continue a robust settlement on Svalbard. The tax system will also be better adapted to the Norwegian system and international framework conditions. The changes are largely in line with the proposals of the working group that were put down to investigate the svalbard tax, and were very well received when the Minister of Justice released the news on 1 May in Longyearbyen. From 2007 onwards, the government also provided a separate swallowing supplement in the child’s safety. This supplement is proposed further this year, and it will also better safeguard the situation of the children’s families at Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1388	I would like to join in what the rapporteur has said, and just comment briefly on this change in the tax system. We in the Progress Party are pleased that many ways have now reversed the tax decision that was made a short time ago and that we were alone in the Stortingen to protest against it at that time. On the other hand, we have problems in creating a system that is becoming more bureaucratic than necessary, and we have therefore seen the need to make a proposal that tries to remedy it. We are promoting that proposal together with the Right, and I would like to address the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1395	The representative of Morten Höglund has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1413	For the second year in a row, I am delighted to present a unanimous opinion from the Foreign Affairs Committee on the export of defence equipment from Norway, export control and international non-proliferation cooperation. The production and export of defence equipment represents a significant value creation in Norway. This type of industry has for many years contributed to technological development that can also be used civilly. Exports of defence equipment in 2006 amounted to a total of DKK 3.5 billion, an increase of approx. 20 pst. in relation to the previous year. However, it turns out that there are variations in exports and the value of exports from year to year, mainly due to variations in individual deliveries. Strict enforcement of the export control legislation is practised by the Norwegian side. Adequate documentation is required prior to granting an exit permit. Often this will be the end-user declaration where the recipient declares that the material is finally used. Documentation on installation and use and assurance that the resale of the material will not take place without the agreement of the Norwegian authorities has also been used. However, exports of weapons and other defence equipment between NATO countries are carried out without requiring re-port clause or end-user declaration. This is a practice developed over many years, based on trust between the defence alliance partners. Multilateral export control is an important tool in preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the building of conventional military capacity that could threaten security and stability in many areas. In recent years, it has become increasingly important to strengthen cooperation in order to prevent terrorists from accessing chemical and biological weapons precursors or production and dispersal equipment. It is important to prevent weapons and technology from getting into the hands of groups or people who have civil lives as a goal to advance their cause. It is therefore essential that a restrictive policy be pursued regarding the sale of weapons and technology and that we are associated with international control bodies cooperating in this important work. There are now a number of unregistered and illegal weapons that pose a major problem in many conflict areas. Development of measures against illicit arms trafficking, such as: strengthening border controls in conflict-affected areas is an action that may have an impact. It is also important that Norwegian stockpiles of weapons are adequately secured, so that these weapons do not fall into the hands of criminals or terrorists. The Foreign Affairs Committee has previously received input with a desire to introduce a mandatory end-user statement for all recipients of Norwegian weapons or other defence equipment in order to strengthen control of where Norwegian defence equipment actually ends. The introduction of stronger parliamentary control according to the Swedish model has also been sought by some organisations. A unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee considers that the issue of the possible parliamentary control of exports of defence equipment needs to be addressed in an interaction between magnification and government, and therefore asks the Government to assess various aspects of increased export control and to discuss this with the Storting appropriately. In Norway, special international responsibility has been assumed to strengthen the work on non-proliferation and disarmament issues through participation in the so-called 7-country group. Participation in the IAEA Board from 2005 to 2007 has also contributed actively from the Norwegian side to the work on nuclear disarmament. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation in this matter, which has led us to deal with a unanimous position for the second consecutive year, which I am very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1441	I'm going to sign out that rose and give it back to the case rapporteur, who has a very strong responsibility that we get to unanimous settings two years in a row in an area that is probably difficult. Then I would like to commend the Foreign Minister for an increasing openness in the export of defence equipment. It is important at a time when the production of weapons and other defence equipment is becoming more and more unpredictable internationally, because the defence industry is becoming more and more multilateral. Components of a helicopter or a tank can be produced in a number of countries, which makes it difficult to identify where they are actually made. Increasingly, competition in this market has also increased due to structural changes or the transformation of the military forces of most countries. It is not only within the NATO Alliance that defence is becoming less widespread, but more focused and technological. There is another big business message about the Norwegian defence industry in Stortinget, namely St.meld. No 38 for 2006-2007. It appears that the total turnover in the Norwegian defence industry is estimated to have been around 9 billion kroner per year in the last few years. The total value of exports in 2006 was, as we heard, NOK 3.5 billion. This means that the production and export of defence equipment represents a significant value creation in Norway. The defence industry also contributes strongly to the development of technologies that can be used for civil purposes. A unanimous committee actively supports the Government’s work on measures to ensure that Norwegian defence equipment does not go astray. Strict control of weapons and other technologies that can be used for warfare or for terrorist activities is important. Therefore, the Committee is committed to obtaining stricter human rights requirements for exports to countries outside the NATO Alliance. In this respect, I would like to refer to a debate which has been on the export of defence equipment to some Gulf States. Therefore, the application for an export licence has to be assessed as falling within the scope of the export legislation on international humanitarian law and human rights. The export control regime is also an important instrument for non-proliferation and disarmament. Norway is actively engaged in international efforts to eliminate weapons of mass destruction and to prevent re-proliferation. The most important thing is to get on with nuclear disarmament work. We must fight against all kinds of weapons of mass destruction. Nevertheless, nuclear weapons and radioactivity remain in a special position in terms of death and destruction. The goal must be the elimination of all nuclear weapons. The non-proliferation agreement is the cornerstone of the work to prevent proliferation and ensure nuclear disarmament. However, the disarmament and non-proliferation regime is under heavy pressure. While the 1995 and 2000 surveillance conferences were relatively uplifting, with concrete measures pointing forward, the 2005 Conference of Supervisors failed, not to say chaos. Following that Conference of Supervisors, Norway took the initiative, at the request of the UN Secretary-General, to continue working on this issue with six other countries. This 7-country initiative did not reach the UN Summit in September of the same year, but the 7-country group continues to work to identify concrete actions that could lead to the future. There is respect for Norway's work here, which is important for the next supervisory conference in 2010. I noticed that the preparatory work started in April this year. Of course, an important part of this work is to prevent the spread of nuclear competences to terrorist groups and unstable countries. I also want to pay tribute to the Government for its work to get an international ban on class bombs. Some believe that the real weapons of mass destruction on our globe are small arms. In any case, it's the handgun that kills most people. I note that there is positive cooperation with several regional organisations, particularly in Africa, and that Norway, the Netherlands and Germany are cooperating in the framework of the OSCE on the implementation of common principles on the control of the transmission of small arms. I attended a parliamentary conference in The Hague on the Chemical Weapons Convention earlier in the autumn. All 182 countries have ratified that Convention, but there are still concerns about the lack of the destruction of existing weapons, among others. in Russia and the United States. There is also reason to question the way inspections are carried out. Norway is one of the countries in the world which has organised inspections on grounds of suspicion, known as ‘challenge inspections’. Finally, a problem which particularly concerns the Red Cross is whether the Convention against Chemical Weapons should also include non-lethal gases which are known to be highly harmful. I want to refer to what happened in the famous theater in Moscow. In the case of chemical weapons, there is also a debate on whether an attack on companies that produce chemical materials can be said to fall within the scope of the Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1467	I would also like to commend the rapporteur for the good work he has done. Norway is a large arms exporter in relation to the population. This is why Norway has a particular responsibility for strict control of what the arms and arms components are used for – that it is ethically sound, that there is control of where they are used, and that they do not end up in warriors who are warring against international law, or in occupying countries. This is a clear principle, but it is equally full of clear dilemmas, for example: that we export to NATO countries without requiring a re-port clause. Both the Storting and civil society are subject to strict and sound control. There have been constant improvements. As seen, this message and its processing are part of a process. The Committee points out that Sweden practises further transparency, all the time required for Swedish defence equipment manufacturers to report annually on exports of military equipment and multifunctional goods to military consumers. In this context, the Committee considers that the Government is considering how the reporting could be more comprehensive. Civil society raises important questions and acts as a valuable vigilance in the work of transparency, transparency and knowledge on the control of exports of defence equipment. A number of organisations are commending the fact that there is now greater transparency. However, the same organisations call for a stronger control of where Norwegian weapons or weapon parts actually end, and believe that an end-user statement must be made to all recipients of Norwegian weapons and other defence equipment, as the case-law rapporteur also indicated that the organisations had pointed out. I would like to point out, for my part, that the Piro report of 2006 Bullets Without Borders shows that the lack of control of exports to NATO countries can lead to Norwegian weapons being diverted, and that Amnesty International believes that weapons parts produced in Norway have been shipped to Israel after resale from the United States, and Norway is prohibited from exporting arms to countries in war and conflict, as is the case with Israel. If Amnesty is right, it shows the need for new initiatives. The case rapporteur also pointed out that organisations have called for the introduction of an export control board according to the Swedish model, and I also agree with what the case rapporteur said about it. SV and I believe it will be important to continue the work in relation to arms exports and arms control to see what we can follow from recordings that come from the organisations. I am therefore pleased that the Government invited the press and organisations to a meeting to discuss the content of the message, when it was submitted, and that the Government says it will follow that practice, and I think it is very good. The Committee considers that the evaluations of the application for an export licence must impose requirements on the human rights situation in the recipient countries. It's e.g. a paradox that exports of munitions of war to countries such as Saudi Arabia still have a significant, if not growing, scale. The Committee further states that international humanitarian law and human rights must be considered as a condition of export control legislation. Human rights are indivisible and universal and cannot be broken for reasons of other interests. It is necessary that the assessments made in relation to the human rights situation in the recipient countries are verifiable. I am pleased that the Government now calls for the unanimous 1997 clarification to be incorporated into the guidelines for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deal with applications for the export of arms for military materials, namely: ‘The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’s assessment of these issues includes an assessment of a number of policy issues, including issues related to democratic rights and respect for fundamental human rights.’ The Soria Moria Declaration states that Norway should work for an international convention on arms trafficking. Then Norway is also an active supporter in the work of an Arms Trade Treaty. The government also has an active international role to play in the uncontrolled spread of small arms, as Marit Nybakk did. More than ever, the forces that fight against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and for disarmament are needed. That is why the fight against non-proliferation and for disarmament must be stepped up. Norway’s involvement in this area has been clear for a long time. Norway has been and must be a driver of the widest possible and most binding non-proliferation and disarmament work. It is therefore important that Norway continue to cooperate in the 7-country group in order to move forward in this work, as Marit Nybakk was also concerned. Finally, I would like to praise an upward peace movement that is mobilizing nuclear disarmament and demanding a ban on nuclear weapons. There is a force in such mobilization.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1496	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for having a unanimous committee behind this setting. Norway is one of the world’s leading exporters of weapons, in fact among the highest per cent. the population. This gives us a special responsibility to make sure that weapons or weapon components manufactured in Norway do not come into the hands of dictators and are used to violate human rights. The left wants an effective arms export control regime. At the same time, we want the Norwegian regime to allow Norwegian companies to export weapons, weapon components and weapon technology in a legitimate way. In other words, the left line is a demanding balance between making it possible to produce and export weapons from Norway on the one hand and enforcing strict control over these exports on the other. The left believes that transparency is an important key to a better control regime. In St.meld. No 33 for 2006-2007, the Government demonstrates the willingness to increase transparency within the limits set by Norwegian laws and regulations. This is a step in the right direction. International cooperation with increasing globalisation has become increasingly important for effective arms export control. The EU Code of Conduct, to which Norway has committed itself, is not binding but promotes a common EU approach to arms export control. The Code of Conduct is becoming a central international reference agency. In addition, Norway is involved in the Wassenaar cooperation aimed at conventional weapons, the Nuclear Suppliers Group aimed at nuclear weapons, the Australia group aimed at chemical and biological weapons and the missile technology control regime. This together constitutes a relatively fine-masked network to which 30–50 of the most advanced industrialised countries have joined. The reason I mention this is that there is an increasing problem associated with many of the other countries that are not caught up in this network. Most of the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons takes place through these countries. It is therefore gratifying that the United Nations is working on an Arms Trade Treaty. The background is that a large majority in the United Nations voted in favour of a resolution in December 2006 supporting the establishment of an Arms Trade Treaty, as several have mentioned. The United States voted against the resolution, while Russia and China, which are among the world's largest arms exporters, abstained. India and Pakistan also resigned, which is probably related to their desire to build a significant national arms industry. Other major arms exporters, such as Brazil and South Africa, supported the resolution. Given the resistance of leading arms exporting countries, such as China, the United States and Russia, it may take a long time before an Arms Trade Treaty will be adopted and ratified. In the meantime, I assume that the government in Norway, together with governments in other, like-minded countries, is doing what it can to influence these countries in the right direction. Arms Trade Treaty is intended to be a Convention on International Arms Trade which is binding on international arms trade. It should primarily capture countries that do not have as advanced control of arms exports as for example. Norway. An important reason for supporting the work of a global convention is the growing problem of licensing arms production in other countries. If the countries of production do not have as strict rules for arms exports as for example. Norway, Norwegian rules are at risk of circumvention. I believe that the licence for the production of Norwegian developed weapons abroad should be based on the same criteria as for exports, as the practical consequences are very much the same. A large part of our arms exports consists of components that are part of the weapons systems of other countries. This allows these countries to control the final use of the finished product. In other words, it is their arms export rules and not ours that are taken into account. Satisfactory documentation is currently required before an export authorisation is granted. Such documentation may be an end-user declaration. In an end-user statement, a buyer of weapons declares that he is the end-user of the material. He informs us about the installation and use. Last but not least, he gives an assurance that resale will not take place without the agreement of the Norwegian authorities. When exporting weapons and other military materials to NATO countries, Norwegian authorities do not require a final declaration or re-port clause. This is a long-term practice, based on trust between the parties within the alliance. Today, some NATO countries require such an end-user declaration in some form from allies, including among others. USA, Germany and Italy. Other countries, including, inter alia: Norway, does not make such a requirement. However, the requirements for the end-user declaration may vary from country to country within the alliance. In practice, it appears that the difference between those requiring retail declaration and those requiring other forms of documentation does not necessarily have to be so large. I think it would have been desirable to have a greater degree of coordination, so that the rules within the alliance are as equal as possible at this point. In 1997, a unanimous step was taken to ensure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs takes account of political issues in the granting of export licences. This includes democratic rights and respect for fundamental human rights. I have recently reviewed the list of countries to which Norway has exported arms, and several of them do not stand out either in terms of democratic rights or in terms of respect for fundamental human rights, as the representative Valle also stated. I would therefore like to stress that the assessment of export licence applications requires real requirements for the human rights situation in the recipient countries. Furthermore, this should be enshrined in international humanitarian law and in human rights in the field of export control. Finally, I would like to underline the importance of following up an international instrument – adopted by the 2005 UN General Assembly – for the marking and tracing of small arms. The target should be binding international rules, which also include ammunition. This will make it possible to trace weapons, weapon components and ammunition back to the buyer, which turns out to have an inhibitory effect on illegitimate placing on the market and use of weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1534	In the last few months, I have given some talks to especially young people – at universities and universities – about Norwegian foreign policy and globalisation. Then there's one question from engaged youth that almost always comes up. It concerns the relationship between the fact that Norway is perceived as a nation occupied by peace, security and disarmament, and that we are a significant arms exporter. This question is being asked: is there a context here? I have now learned to answer it – as best I can – by saying that it is one of many paradoxes. That's why we're emphasising that the regime should be as strict as possible and provide transparency. We adorn ourselves with the fact that we are said to have the world's most stringent arms export regime. I am therefore pleased that it is a unanimous committee that is behind this setting. I would like to commend the rapporteur and the committee for their contribution – for the second consecutive year. It's a strength in the slightly difficult balances that this gives. We are committed to providing maximum transparency in the export of defence equipment. The 2005 review showed that there is a broad cross-political consensus that a satisfactory level of transparency has been achieved. I have noticed what has been said by several representatives here, and I encourage Stortinget to continue to be a driver of that kind of openness. We're going to do what we can to keep that line going – and don't worry about getting to the goal. As pointed out, as an additional measure, we invited the press and non-governmental organisations to discuss the content of the notification when it was presented in June. I think it gave – as the representative Valle said – a dialogue and a kind of transparency that was right for that climate. With regard to the transparency of the Storting in the export of defence equipment, the Government considers that the Stortinget should be given sufficient transparency through the annual wholesale notification. At the same time, we will continue the practice of consulting and informing the Storting on matters of particular importance and importance. It is today, I would say, significant transparency in the business of Norwegian exporters of defence equipment. This is a development that we want to continue. The practice of increased transparency will, of course, have to take place within the limits imposed by the obligation of professional secrecy under the Export Control Act. At the same time, the government continuously assesses the possibility of increasing transparency in future communications. Then we have a clear objective of working for greater transparency on international arms exports, and in this context will continue an active line in relevant international contexts. The government works, among other things: active in order for all countries, like Norway, to undertake to publish annual national reports on their defence equipment sport. Several speakers have referred to the nature of Norwegian exports, known as A-materials, to exports to NATO countries and to the question of end-user declarations. I don't have much to add to it. I also think some of the dilemmas we face have been well-lit in these posts. There are, among other things: The representatives Valle and Larsen addressed this with regard to democracy and human rights in the recipient countries, and referred to the decision in autumn 2007 to update the guidelines for the U.D. handling of applications. The 1997 unanimous clarification that the ‘Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ assessment of these matters — export and defence material — ‘includes an assessment of a number of policy issues, including issues related to democratic rights and respect for fundamental human rights’ has now been included in the guidelines. So I also noticed what the representative Larsen said about some of the countries on the list could be in a special category in relation to these targets. We'll bring that back again to look at it. In order to further strengthen Norwegian efforts in the field of export control, the U.D. took the initiative in January this year to establish interinstitutional cooperation with the Police Security Service, Customs and Defence. The aim here is to discuss, plan and coordinate the activities of individual bodies in order to ensure optimal export control at all stages. And that's part of the increased international focus on controlling this kind of trade. The submission by Norway of an annual national communication on armaments sport since 1996, and since that time significantly strengthened the transparency of Norwegian exports, is a good starting point for us to have an active role in making other countries transparent in their exports. And we have the clear aim of working for greater transparency on international arms exports, and in this context will continue an active line in relevant international contexts. I can confirm, as has been mentioned by several, that the 7-country initiative remains a priority objective for us. We will have a conference in February next year on disarmament in the nuclear field, including: Former U.S. Secretary of State George Schultz will be present. He has with a number of former foreign and defence ministers, among others. Henry Kissinger, wrote a historical article about the need to come back to an absolute total nuclear disarmament, and I agree with the speakers who have said here that it is by no means yesterday's case; it is to those degrees our contemporary cause to get to it. It has been mentioned in an earlier debate today that we have an initiative for disarmament in NATO, where Norway and Germany stand together. I will be working on that in Brussels later this week, at the Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting, under not quite simple circumstances. Finally, I would like to make a reference to a related theme, namely the fight for the ban on class ammunition. The representative, Valle, said in an earlier debate that more than 80 countries are now joining the initiative. I can tell you that at the meeting we are planning in Vienna for follow-up, we get participation from 120 countries. And then this is starting to matter. So the goal of getting what we call a realistic ban on class ammunition in 2008, we're still standing by – and we're going to work on that as hard as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1568	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1584	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1600	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1616	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1625	At the base of half of all children who go to kindergarten, there is today room in a private nursery. And the proportion of private places has increased a lot after the 2003 kindergarten agreement. Private developers have accounted for a significantly larger share of new sites than municipalities. This presents us with challenges in ensuring our children a qualitatively equal offer, regardless of whether the child goes to a private or municipal nursery. The financing of private kindergartens is three-fold, through earmarked state grants, parental payments and municipal grants. The municipal funding obligation towards private kindergartens is regulated by the regulation on the equivalent treatment of kindergartens in relation to government grants. Today, non-municipal kindergartens are entitled to cover their operating costs on the basis of a historical cost level from 2003, however, so that the grant is a minimum of 85 pst. of the municipality’s own kindergartens receiving support. Non-municipal kindergartens established after 2003 have full equivalent treatment. This means that there are considerable differences in the economic situation between private kindergartens and between private and municipal kindergartens. There is no secret that some private kindergartens are running with significant profits, while others are on the brink of bankruptcy. Therefore, the Government has put in place a work to identify the economic situation in the private kindergartens. The results of that monitoring will be followed up in the work on the inclusion of kindergartens in the municipal framework transfer. In this respect, the Government has sent out to the hearing proposals for amendments to the Kindergarten Act such as: involve the legal establishment of the right to children's playground and the municipal obligation for municipalities to finance private kindergartens. The working party therefore considers that it is inappropriate to make changes to the existing legislation, when adding to a completely different way of financing kindergartens from 2009. But it is important in the context of the forthcoming conversion that an economic equality between the private and municipal kindergartens is being worked on. From the Labour Party we are concerned that the children should have an equal offer regardless of whether they are allocated a municipal or a private place. In addition, we are concerned that the pay and working conditions of employees should also be the same. Thus, the size will have ample opportunity to address these issues in the context of the treatment of the municipal bill now in the spring and when the proposal for amendments to the nursery law is presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1644	It is hardly any surprise that the Progress Party wants a price financing for kindergartens. We have wanted this from the very beginning of 2002. It didn't work that way. When you make compromises, you have to give something and take something. But unfortunately, we see that the consequences of the financial funding we made to make a deal seem to have come out of control altogether. I guess it's a fact that there are very few people who actually have the overview of this complicated problem, as per. Today, EUR 6 billion has increased in 2003 to DKK 21 billion for 2008. I am not sure at all that all these resources have gone to kindergartens. The reason for this is that the funding is now distributed between the framework of the municipality and the state. One of the prerequisites of 2002/2003 was that municipalities should treat public and private kindergartens economically in a non-discriminatory manner, and that municipalities should not use the fresh funds they received for kindergartens to finance other things. We now know that several municipalities have been pointed out that they have just done this, as well as that private and public kindergartens are still being discriminated against. No one can get away from the fact that without the private kindergartens there had never been any kindergarten reform in the country. Municipalities want private individuals to take the investment in the construction of kindergartens, but they do not want to ensure proper financing of these. The Progress Party is very critical of this unbridled form of funding and of discrimination. We are aware that there is now consultation on proposals for amendments to the Kindergarten Act, where one of the changes is the transfer of the entire nursery funding to the local community framework without having a eartag. This frightens us, in particular because this proposal for amendments also provides for the municipalities to exercise discretion and that municipalities are not obliged to finance new private nursery places. This means a further deterioration of the framework conditions of private kindergartens and gross discrimination. Not least, there is also a clear breach of the broad orphanage agreement that was in Stortinget. In reality, we are so far away from the agreement that the Progress Party is now assessing whether it still commits us as a party. This is and has been our own obligation, but now we're really starting to wonder if it's still worth striving. What should be a concern for government parties is that if you choose to pierce private children’s garden development and private nursery funding, you will never get full babysitting – which in turn puts lids on the max. price, step two. What, then, are you going to have a right to a nursery, if there are no kindergartens to have the children in? We see a wish from the government parties to turn from private to public kindergartens. This is, according to the view of the Progress Party, a lot of search. We want diversity in all sectors. But it is obvious that the socialist project is on its way into Norway, which both Russia and the Czech Republic abandoned at the end of the 1980s. Should the Government win with this discrimination against private and public kindergartens, parents no longer have a real choice for their children. Then the state has made the choice for them. I bring this up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1667	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1670	In the field by field, we see that the government has a little enthusiasm for private actors. Whether we discuss child protection or rehabilitation, it's a half-hearted approach that shows that dealing with private actors is a little bit in the way. More than half of Norwegian kindergarten children go to private kindergartens. The private developers are absolutely necessary to keep the pace of development up, so that we can reach full kindergarten coverage as soon as possible. However, the question that lies in the air is what line the Government will take on the day of full child-care coverage and competition for the places. Will you continue to hear the assurances from the red-green parties that private actors are good – or will be added to a race that marginalises private actors, as we now see in private kindergartens and in rehabilitation? It is easy to understand from this perspective that private developers feel uncertain about what framework conditions they actually have to adhere to. When we have promoted this proposal, it is because we believe that today's legislation does not provide the security network that private operators need – nor in understanding their future. I take note of the letter from the Council of State to the Committee, and see that these are long-term complaints. The impression we are left with after many meetings with frustrated kindergarten owners and after well documented figures from the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, is unfortunately different. The fact that frustrations are so many and so pronounced is in itself a starting point for the Council of State to perhaps adopt a more humble attitude and show greater consideration for this. I'd like to admit that it's not easy. We also strived with this when we were in government, but later we did not feel that it was good enough. We don't lean back in the chair and claim that this works well, and that the appeal procedure is there, when we see actors who can so emphatically show that this actually doesn't work in the practical life. We believe it is a sign of illness when people feel unfairly treated and you can prove – at least at this point – that things are not on the lookout. Then, whether we think it's right or not, we should actually go in and do a job to create a basis to make sure that things are taken care of. We see, for example: that no deadline has been set for local authorities to give feedback on funding in order to ensure predictability of the financial framework conditions. Such a case should be easy to deal with. If you are going to do business, everyone will understand that you actually need to know what framework you have to stick to, at a relatively early stage. We want a system that is more transparent, more transparent and more trusting to those who are going to work towards it. We want a regulation that creates security for the private kindergartens, even after full kindergarten coverage is in place. In fact, we also want a policy that does not appear to be half-hearted in relation to welcoming private contributors. We take note that you are working on a new distribution system and that you have to come back with a matter about it. We're waiting for it with some tension and expectation in relation to what it's actually going to contain. When you do not want to meet us at this crossroads, at least I hope that there is good pressure on the progress in relation to what you are currently working on. I also hope that the need we want to put our finger on through this proposal, namely the need for it to be easily accessible what is there – that we do not experience again that a whole private sector in this area comes and does not understand what they are facing, does not feel that they have neat rules to deal with, and does not have the means – in each of their municipalities – to verify whether the treatment they have received is correct. So we shouldn't experience that. I hope you remember that. So I'm sorry we're not getting any answers to the proposal we're now making. We think it'll be useful, because it means something significantly more than a mapping, which I understand it's working on, but we'll probably have the opportunity to follow up on this later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1689	The Christian People's Party wants a variety of high-quality kindergartens. It requires economically equivalent treatment for municipal and private kindergartens. In the nursery agreement, a step-by-step phase of this was added. The Bondevik II Government confirms the equivalent treatment of public appeals from 1 May 2004. The second phase of the phase-in of equivalent treatment came on 1 August 2005. It added up to about 60 pst. by private kindergartens. This is not good enough, though. Many private kindergartens are struggling with unresponsive advances, and we have still not reached the goal of full equivalent treatment. When we see in the media that some kindergartens have still not been paid municipal contributions for 2006, this is problematic. In addition, there has been a series of signals that municipalities, which on an ideological basis are well-intentioned to private actors, are less aware that their calculations of public appeals are being made. Fafo has published a report on the models of babysitting, Fafo Report No. 500. The report points out that many private kindergartens are dissatisfied with today’s arrangement, among others. because it is unresponsive. That means that we have to find alternatives, whether this is a form of the equal cost principle or another system that is more conservative for each kindergarten. Therefore, the Christian People's Party, together with the other opposition parties here, has proposed a new funding model for kindergartens. The government has sent out proposals for changes to children's hails on the phone. According to the Christian People's Party's view, the proposal for a statutory right to kindergarten is initially positive, but more things have to be in place before such a right becomes real. We're missing 3,700 pre-school teachers. We will lack even more when full kindergarten coverage is reached. Many kindergartens suffer from a lack of maintenance, miserable indoor climate and low or non-existent temporary budget. When the sick leave is about 10 pst., that means that there are many places that are responsible for 18 children in long periods. Whether kindergarten is both a pedagogical offer and a care service, more attention is needed on quality – it does not help with legal space. The quality of supply is decisive for both children, parents and added. The Christian People's Party is busy ensuring a good and prudent funding system for all kindergartens. The government proposal has sent out a lot of unanswered questions, especially when it concerns the financing of private kindergartens. We expect the government to come up with proposals for regulations that will provide children's care with an economy that ensures good quality and that gives equal pay and working conditions for all those added to kindergartens. We fear that a poor funding scheme for private kindergartens will lead to a reduction in kindergarten development, and that several of the small kindergartens will go bankrupt. The proposal implies, in practice, that the freedom of establishment is removed when the municipality is given full or limited municipal discretion to decide whether or not to provide childcare funding. We are critical of that. It is important that municipalities provide for a shortage of childcare facilities, both for ownership and opening hours, regardless of political plurality. Parents should be governing their wishes and needs for the kind of kindergartens to be established and there should be no authorisation mechanisms that may distort competition for new kindergartens, for example. kindergartens with a special pedagogy or life-vision gardens. The choice of parents favours cooperation between home and kindergarten. I hope that the Government will take care of the intention of the proposal we are discussing today, when the matter is put before the Stortinget – with regard to quality, kindergarten development and diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1706	Many of the Community instruments we have in our society are based on the initiative of non-governmental organisations — including kindergarten and institution. It was about housewives and all the other associations that joined together to make an offer for the children. This means that we have, in essence, had a diversity in the provision on the kindergarten side. Whether it is the god you worship, whether you live on the farm, in the mountains or in the city, it has affected the kindergarten offer – the theme of kindergartens, the competence of kindergartens, the outside world and everything around them. The example we saw in front of the Storting here today, from Uncle Tomm’s cabin, an open-air kindergarten based in the T-baner routes through the city, shows how diverse an offer can be, because children are different, and because parents are different. I heard a true story from a lady who decided to move back to her own hometown, and who found out that one of the things she could do as the municipality needed was to start a kindergarten. When she met the municipality, she was told that the legislation relating to the start-up of kindergartens was so complicated and difficult that she could probably just forget it. This would probably be too bureaucratic, and in addition, it had the principle that there were only public kindergartens that gave a good offer to the children. Great promise throughout the Norwegian community has traditionally been linked to the word hard work, a common deed, where everyone put their things in the basket to get it into. I am somewhat afraid that the rule of ideological fanaticism destroys a virtue of the child hail which was agreed here on the house, because the private kindergartens either don't fit into the socialist form or don't fit into a competitive form. When we know that the vast majority of kindergartens that are private are based on a great degree of idealism, either linked to one thing, to taking care of children or, in fact, to create jobs in my own community, I miss the Senter party here in the debate. The government has a major challenge in this area in increasing dialogue. The government has to remain silent in this matter with a completely different attitude to the private kindergartens, so that those who are actually making a fantastic effort to achieve the government's goal on the kindergarten side are valued considerably better and get more predictable framework conditions, show that you actually enjoy the difference, and don't look at the difference as a threat, because the children are different, the parents are different and the country is different.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1717	I feel the need to remember that we've had a hard time in the last five years to get to the finish with a fantastic lift for full child care coverage. I also think who took the initiative and carried out that skill, and who had to be pushed in to be with. In order to do that, both public and private kindergartens are absolutely necessary, and it will be in the future as well. We need a variety of offers. We need both the public and the private. The municipal financing obligations of non-municipal kindergartens are governed by the regulation on the equivalent treatment of kindergartens in respect of public grants, and state that the municipality shall cover the costs not covered by other public grants or by parental payments. At the same time, the municipality must ensure that the supplement is at least 85 pst. of the corresponding municipal kindergartens on average, sheep. If the supplement, calculated according to the 85 pst rule, does not fully cover the costs of the non-municipal kindergarten, the municipality has as its starting point an obligation to increase its contribution up to a sum covering the costs of the nursery. However, the municipality has no obligation to cover the growth of costs in non-municipal kindergartens, which may go beyond the normal price and cost growth for the municipal sector. Therefore, the annual cost level of the municipal kindergartens, together with the normal price and cost growth of the municipal sector, is determined to some extent by the contribution of the non-municipal kindergartens from the municipality. I acknowledge that the legislation on the calculation of municipal contributions to non-municipal kindergartens can be difficult to understand. In the comments on the equivalent treatment regulation, it is pointed out that the municipality must always confirm how it calculates allowances for non-municipal kindergartens and that this is the basis for the decision of the municipality. Members have been given the task of being particularly attentive to information and guidance in the context of equivalent treatment regulations, and may, on the basis of it, assist in making their decisions on grants in a fair and understandable manner. So the owners, according to the administration law, always have the right to complain about a decision on municipal subsidies and the right to access the case. When we in the Ministry of Knowledge receive a request for specific cases, we also contact the County or Municipality to follow up the cases. In the case of discretionary funds, they are a transfer from the State to the municipalities, where the purpose is to compensate for the additional costs incurred by the municipalities. It applies both to the introduction of a maximum price, to municipal obligations for the equivalent treatment of municipal and non-municipal kindergartens and to the operation of new kindergartens. The government intends to incorporate the ear-marked supplements into the municipal council, and will come back in the municipal council proposal for 2009 with a more detailed description of which additions are to be incorporated. Proposals for changes to children's hailova have already been sent to the audience. In the context of dealing with these issues, there will be a need to assess how future legislation can be sufficiently robust and simple for all kindergartens. In the bill that the Ministry has heard, it is not foreseen to pass on the rule of equivalent treatment of municipal and non-municipal kindergartens in relation to public contributions. In the hearing note, however, two new models of public funding for non-municipal kindergartens are proposed. The one assumes that the municipality receives a statutory funding obligation for the non-municipal kindergartens in the municipality. The municipality can then itself assess whether the contribution to the non-municipal kindergartens should be equal to the costs of the municipal kindergartens. The second model assumes that the non-municipal kindergartens receive supplements at a nationally fixed percentage. Finally, what is proposed for Stortinget, we come back when an odelstungsproposition on the changes in Kinderhagelova is presented. The objective of the Soria Moria declaration to ensure adequate and predictable funding for the non-municipal actors in the kindergarten sector will, of course, also form the basis for the new scheme. The government wants to know more about the cost differences between municipal and non-municipal kindergartens, and the Ministry is therefore starting work to identify them more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1736	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1739	I am very pleased that the Council of State says that you need private kindergartens, even if in the proposal for the new law, which is now being consulted, you cannot necessarily get the impression. It says, therefore, that the right to operating grants for the construction of kindergartens should be removed and that the operating grant should only be granted if the municipality considers the nursery to be necessary. I would like to think, to be absolutely sure that I have understood the Council of State correctly, that he confirms that he is not turning towards public kindergartens, but that he wants diversity, and wants equal treatment for public and private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1747	For many years in Norway, we have had many public and private kindergartens, in a variety of forms of ownership. We are, and will be, totally dependent, still, by a lack of kindergartens: public and private. It is important to ensure good funding for the whole kindergarten sector in Norway, because it is young people who are to grow up, have been well taken care of and have good opportunities to develop and to learn. So yes, I'm busy ensuring a good funding system for both public and private kindergartens in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1752	Let me follow up where the representative Woldseth left off. He also pointed to the Soria Moria Declaration, which, according to the Department's letter and the statements made by the Council of State, stated that adequate and predictable funding should be ensured for the non-municipal actors in the kindergarten sector. That was probably also the government council in and of itself replied Woldseth with. Now it has led to a rather demanding exercise, but yet we have easily and easily found this in the Soria Moria statement. We haven't found that. On the other hand, we have found that the Government will work for equal pay and employment for employees in private and municipal kindergartens. My question to the Council of State is, Should I be better? Is this the Council of State aiming at relative to predictable financing, or is it somewhere else? When he talks about predictable funding, does he also mean equal treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1763	It is quite right for the representative to point out that the pay and work conditions of the private and public kindergartens are particularly reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is, in fact, a rather important issue, which will be central in the years to come in the kindergarten sector. Then I will also repeat what I have now said here, that it is quite clear that there are some challenges when it comes to the details of the legislation we have today, and that there is therefore a need to assess how to ensure a decent and simple enough regulation when we are going to go through it for the future, in connection with the transfer of funding to the framework of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1770	I believe that everyone who hires a kindergarten wants to give their added pay and working conditions, but at the same time I know that some private kindergartens feel that they are so pressured financially that they can't do it. It's a goal that everyone should have it. How will the Government ensure the economy of private kindergartens in such a way that everyone can be given an orderly and equivalent pay and working conditions? That's one question. The other thing that has been sent out on the phone is that municipalities should be able to use their discretion to decide whether private kindergartens should be funded or not. Is not the Council of State anxious, then, that one will try to sort out, open out, a lack of existence today, and that it doesn't necessarily depend on what parent demand is, but that the municipality rules, and then first of all prioritizes its own kindergartens and does not open up so that we can open up new and alternative kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1777	One can sometimes be turned off by the paradox in how we value those who fit our money, compared to those who fit our kids. It's a major challenge, in general. In addition, we see some specific challenges that lie in the differences between the public kindergartens and the non-public kindergartens. It's a challenge we're forced to address. To the last question from the representative: I want to show that we are now forced to submit a proposal on how to transfer the framework to the municipalities. Here are two very different suggestions. I'm going to put a lot of emphasis on what the hearing agencies say. I'm assuming there's going to be a pretty big commitment to it and different views about it. I will go through those points of view carefully and present the point of view I believe in the whole of Norway's kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1784	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1789	I thank the Council of State for the answer during the change of line. But I really didn't get an answer to what you mean when you say that it ensures adequate and predictable funding, is set out in the Soria Moria statement, and that it actually refers to equivalent pay and employment. We can probably clarify that at a later stage, but I would like to remind you that one is about rights in terms of securing something, while the other is about obligations in relation to fulfilling something. So these are completely opposites. The second thing I didn't hear in the answer was whether sufficient and predictable funding actually also means equal treatment. One thing is what the state may think is appropriate in order for private individuals to be able to cope. What we see now, for example. from the protection of children, private individuals should be able to cope with far less than what they clearly believe should be done by the State. The question then concerns the credibility and security of the situation with full child-care coverage. If it is true that you do not believe that you should have equal treatment between public and private actors, it would mean that you have opened the way to close more money on the public side of this, while at the same time, price regulation has a roof over what private people should be able to take. Then the way is not long to have a quite effective tool to actually squander the private actors. This is an important point, because it is precisely about what is predictable in practice, not just in relation to what you have to say at this point in time. I hope that in the matters we are facing, this will be reflected and answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1798	I do not feel that I received any response when I asked if the Council of State could confirm that it was a private turn against the public operation of all kindergartens. I'm very concerned when we're going to put the whole nursery funding into municipal settings. Now we hear from kindergarten to kindergarten that the municipalities are not fulfilling their obligations. We all know that there are municipalities that are in great need of finance, and that they cannot therefore see themselves profiting from using all the money they have received in their settings for kindergartens, just for kindergartens. If we're going to put all of this nursery funding into the framework – and even if the council says that the municipalities have an obligation to finance private kindergartens – then the municipalities are not going to have any obligation to finance new kindergartens. It also means that they lose the right to operating grants if the municipalities do not find that these kindergartens are necessary. I could imagine hearing if it worries the Council of State as much as it worries me. We both know that we've been on this from the start, and our intentions were to get full babysitting. We should also have the maximum price step 2. I would like to know if the Council of State is as concerned as I am if it is to be such that it is up to the municipalities to decide whether a private nursery is necessary, that you can then risk getting a full stop from private development. In fact, the immediate reaction is that just sending this out to the hearing as a consultation proposal will result in building stops among the private, because no one dares to deposit money if you are not sure whether to receive operating grants. So I'm worried. I wish the Council of State could give me an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1809	Let me first say a few things to finally clarify this with both public and private kindergartens. If you are so involved in how important it is for children to go to kindergarten and have the opportunity to do so when parents want, and we know that the distribution in the number of kindergartens and the number of children is around 50–50, it says that we are quite content to add to a system that ensures both public and private kindergartens in Norway. We need to ensure a system that still builds new kindergartens in Norway, because we still need it. The demand for childcare facilities in Norway is still rising. Let me be very clear about that. That's my point. Then we have a rather complex set of rules when it comes to the nursery sector and funding. As the representatives know, it has come about gradually. Now, when we're going to make the decision that the representatives know about, it's a long time ago. It is important, then, that we review and look at a system in which we place child care funding in the framework. There are many different problem settings, such as: is recorded here, but there are some that are not mentioned. I think I have to ask that, when we present an odelstingsproposition to Stortinget and come up with the municipal proposition, we can come back with an answer to how we will propose a model that ensures carelessness, which ensures that he is simple enough, and that ensures funding for both the public and the private kindergartens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1816	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1819	I'll be brief. I thank the Council of State for the answer. After all, I had hoped and wished that we could have a well-thought-out settlement like the broad orphanage agreement that we had in Stortinget. I hope the Council of State gives us room to actually discuss this really, that we would like to have some proper meetings like the ones we had in connection with the nursery arrangement. Now, if we were to change the whole funding model, it would have been all right with a broad-based settlement, so that the framework conditions for all kindergartens, both private and public, could become predictable over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1827	Let me say that the nursery agreement is firm, and that we will follow up. All the parties at Stortinget had great ambitions on behalf of the kindergartens at the time, also ambitions that there would be as many kindergartens built in private as in public. We didn't leave any leads in that regard. With regard to who has really contributed to full child care coverage, there is no doubt that those who run private kindergartens have made an important contribution to our soon being in port with full child care coverage. No one, at the very least we who have ambitions for full child care coverage in the country for many years to come, is worthy of not continuing the private kindergartens. I think that the opposition is now setting up a scare image of what the government wants with the private kindergartens. We want to facilitate good framework conditions for these too. In addition, I think the opposition's focus on it with equivalent treatment compared to this is amazing. I believe that the focus on equal treatment must be on the relationships of young people. This means that the kids have to get an equal offer whether they go to a private or a public kindergarten. They must have an equally pedagogical offer. We have to make sure that there are equal numbers of employees whether it's a private nursery or a municipal nursery. It must also be a contribution when it comes to equal treatment, having the financial and resources to provide a good offer to young people. Then you must not underestimate the fact that there are big differences between them in private kindergartens. We've seen some sort of AS-certification in recent years, where big kindergarten group comes in on the private side, which has pretty good income from kindergartens, while we see that there are small kindergartens run by housewives or other volunteer organizations that are struggling awfully. So when we're going to continue working in Stortingen to provide equivalent treatment, we're going to have to take all of these conditions into account. What's important, and as it's going to be put up to, is that we get a good opportunity in the Storting to discuss this in the future. We'll be there, among other things. to come back to it in the context of the 2009 municipal bill, which will give us an opportunity to discuss it, and also when the case is presented as an outright proposition in connection with the amendment of the law. So the Storting will have many opportunities to discuss an equivalent treatment of, and future, the private and municipal kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1838	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1841	I thank the Council of State for trying to clarify the situation. I think the Council of State did quite well. But one point he did not go into, and that was the issue of non-discrimination. I notice that it is difficult to get the Council of States to say the word ‘discrimination’. I actually stress that equal treatment is a prerequisite for predictability. It has to be taken into account in the further work. Listening to Gunn Karin Gjul's comments, it could be the recording of a new debate, which we should probably not take here. The whole article reflects an unexplained and half-hearted relationship with the private sector in this area. So of course you have to keep up with the class. In a situation where we have a majority government, and where the train has gone when the matter comes to Stortinget, the recordings we're given in advance, which we're trying to give here, are more important than ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1848	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1861	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e1869	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Morten Højlund on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, by Mr Høglund on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and Mr Höglund on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Höglund on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 3, by Dagfinn Højbrätten on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, by Anne Margrethe Larsen on behalf of Left Amendment No. 5, from Dagfinn Højbråten on behalf of the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left In the case of proposals No. 1 and 2, make the President aware that they have changed by putting points after Minneapolis and Edinburgh respectively, and that the rest of the text will go into both proposals. There will be a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e3507	There will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e5107	There will be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The suggestion sounds in changed form: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the Norwegian Consulate General in Edinburgh.’ The left has indicated that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e5124	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The suggestion sounds in changed form: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the Norwegian Consulate General of Minneapolis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e5139	There will be a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide the Storting with an appropriate coordinated plan for the development of Norway’s contribution to Afghanistan, including civil development assistance and the contribution to the country’s political state and nation-building.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e6741	During the debate, Mr Højlund has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e7496	Section 3 under II contains an alternative proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e8039	During the debate Karin S. Woldseth has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit different models for the calculation of government grants to private kindergartens that ensure real equality between public and private actors, and to provide an assessment of the percentage in the regulation on the equivalent treatment of kindergartens in relation to government grants.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e8062	President! I would vote in favour of the proposal, but I printed it incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e8069	Then the result is that 52 votes for the recommendation from the Committee and 48 votes for the proposal from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The recommendation of the Committee is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-05.ana.ud2562e8080	There is no record available.
