ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e31	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a draft representative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e34	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on the law amending Law No. 24 June 1988. 64 on the access of non-residents to the State and their residence here, the Foreign Affairs Act – access to place foreigners who threaten the security of the State in closed custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e39	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e53	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Eriksson, who has the floor on behalf of Mr Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e62	I will say a few words on behalf of the President-in-Office. We record that state councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in his letter to the Labour and Social Committee dated 31 May this year announced that one is working on several proposals, including: a system of tips, in the fight against social security abuse. Furthermore, the Committee is informed in a letter dated 17 October this year that the matter is pending a hearing with the deadline for reply on 15 November – i.e. today – and that during the spring of 2008 the Government will present a case to the Stortinget. On that basis, I would recommend the recommendation of a majority of the Committee, consisting of all parties with the exception of the Right and Christian People's Party. In addition to that, I would say that the Progress Party is committed to having an offensive attitude in the fight against social security abuse. I think all the parties are concerned about that. That is why we now also think it right to see this Document No. The 8-proposal in connection with the work of the Government. We also think it is natural to see it in the context of the consultation opinions when they are available in their entirety. We therefore do not conclude in relation to the instrument that the Right draws up in this proposal for a representative. We will come back to that in an overall assessment when we see the hearing opinions and not least the legislative proposal that the Government has promised to make during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e71	Drug abuse is a major and growing problem. This is serious for three reasons. Firstly, the abuse of social security means that people who are legally required to have a social security benefit are at risk of being unwarranted. Secondly, a high level of social security abuse leads to poor access to social security benefits and artificially high levels of expenditure. Thirdly, social security abuse may contribute to a reduction in the level of performance of those who are legally required to have a social security and a benefit. All of this is serious. In the correspondence with the Committee, the Council of State presents some interesting figures as shown in the setting on page 4. It appears that in 2006 1690 people were reported for social-security abuse, and this sums up to a modest amount of a total of 188 million. kr. If we go back six years in time, to 2000, the amount that could be linked to police-reported social security abuse cases was only 20 million. kr. So over a six-year period, this amount has been more than doubled. So, of course, you can wonder if it's because there's nine times as much social security abuse today as there were six years ago. I don't think so. But I think at least that's the basis for saying that the problem is growing, and that it's too much social security abuse. But it also tells us that you've got systems and procedures that are better than six years ago in terms of revealing this. The availability of information and information is important for the survival of abuse and cheating. Then I am pleased that, after all, there has been a positive development in this matter – in the meaning of the Storting's assessment of the proposal. A similar proposal was being discussed at Odelstinget in 2002, and unfortunately it was rejected by a majority. What I mean by saying that there has been a positive development is that today, in 2007, the majority says, ‘On the other hand, the proposal could help to expose social security abuse.’ It says in the vote, and I am pleased that the majority agrees with us here. But then the majority goes on to say that the majority will 'wait to take a decision on the proposal on this basis'. It shows a much more open attitude than five years ago, then you just talked about problems and disadvantages. When the proposal comes from the Government, there is now a clear willingness to consider it seriously. We're happy about that. Today, a number of institutions and bodies are obliged to report suspicions of financial crime and money laundering. Then we talk about banks, insurance companies, accountants, accountants, etc. That's good. But when we're talking about cheating and cheating with the community's money, or some people say taxpayers' money, a little bit depending on what political ideology you confess to, I have the impression that out there, most people might be more willing to cheat with public money than to cheat on other money. It's quite serious. We can't have it like that. This proposal has been promoted because we believe it can be an important contribution to reducing the level of social security benefits. We've seen some pretty ugly things lately, where this is put in the system of organized groups, where money is sent out of the country, and it's about hundreds of millions of dollars, cf. the scandals we have seen for a long time related to the taxi industry in Oslo. That is why this is a very relevant proposal. I hope the Government will seriously consider it in the further work, and that when the proposal comes, we can get a rematch on it. Finally, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, I will address the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e86	The representative Martin Engeset has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e89	I very much agree with Martin Engeset on one thing, and it's a big udder that someone cheats the public for money. I feel a little need to say that cheating on the public for money, whether it's tax evasion or social security abuse, it goes into one, and it's just as serious. It is therefore important to prevent both tax evasion and social security abuse. The proposal of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party invites us to do is that people in institutions who can today be required to provide information in the event of a reasoned suspicion, on their own initiative, should be able to tip in. There are many different parts of society that have created that type of tip phone, and in many cases it has been positive. But when it comes to people who depend on the public, who have to put their whole lives on the public table to get a benefit they can live on, at least SV believes that there is reason to be extra careful about basing any legal prosecution on tips, because it can be very random. We also believe that there is a great deal to be done to give access to this information to people other than those who have the greatest need for information. It is right that extended access to this can reveal abuse. Yes, it is. But is it worth it? I and SV still feel insecure about whether you are not going too far in relation to the privacy that we have to take care of in such cases. The reason why I take the floor in this case is that I believe that we actually have a strong need to have an increased focus on privacy related to such issues, precisely because they are people in extremely vulnerable situations, and also because we are now getting integrated systems in the public sector where many people have access to information. It is necessary and correct, but it imposes additional requirements on the public to ensure the protection of privacy. So it is that it is revealed more security now than before. This is because NAV has intensified this work, has worked very well with it and got new instruments. It is then very important to follow up, so that when you discover it and it is reported, it is actually condemned as well. I think it's important that there's a reaction when something proves to be wrong. But, just to repeat what we from SV need to underline, you can go too far in your eagerness to find out if someone has made any mistakes. Then, in the fight against evil and for good, you can sometimes go too far in giving the openings for tips by a perhaps justified, but perhaps equally unwarranted suspicion. Data protection in NAV and in any other public sector where sensitive personal data are part of the core of the business must be extremely careful with the information so that other public services which do not necessarily need all the information do not have access to it. Information shall be available in accordance with the principle of ‘need to know’. It's very important. I'm a little surprised at perhaps especially the Right, which I've perceived has been a party that's been very concerned with privacy before, no more cautious and sensitive for this particular proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e102	In the debate on social security abuse, we are wise to start by stating that there are cross-cutting considerations to be taken into account and that the cross-cutting considerations separately are burdensome. On the one hand, we reacted with enough disgust when we heard this summer about the taxi case in Oslo, where one taxi driver, on the wrong basis, tried to cheat four million. kr in disability insurance and where 150 taxi drivers were suspected of social security abuse. We also react when NAV believes that doctors are also involved in social security matters. Unfortunately, there is every reason to assume that the level of social security abuse is increasing. This at least indicates the number of notifications from NAV. Abuse of social schemes weakens the respect for the solidarity of our social security systems. It's a development no one wants. On the other hand, as the debate on the consultation note from the Ministry of State on measures to combat social security abuse has shown, many are afraid of a future in which sensitive personal data are not strictly protected. The fact that the data supervision is very critical of the content of the consultation note is not to be taken too seriously. The protection of privacy is less protected by suspicion of social security abuse than in post-mortem killings, claims have been made in this debate. Respect for privacy and protection against the exchange of sensitive personal data is also a quality of the rule of law that we should take good care of. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is now in a process of evaluating the various inputs to the consultation note on measures to combat social security abuse. I both hope and believe that it is possible to go further in facilitating the exchange of information where there are various grounds for suspecting social security, without making the information about a person's health state closest to public information. In particular, it should be possible to better facilitate contacts between the insurance industry and public authorities. That is why the Christian People's Party has chosen to endorse the proposal from the Right. We believe that such a change in law will make the fight against social security abuse, in the interests of the community, even more effective, but without important data protection considerations becoming unreasonably harmful. I don't think there's any significant disagreement or difference between the parties in this case. Therefore, I will end by wishing the Council of State good luck in the further work that is going on in the department, and look forward to well thought-out proposals being presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e115	We all agree that it is important to combat social security abuse. The difficult question facing us today is the balance between the need to cover up social security abuse and privacy. Two days ago I took part in an interpellation debate here in the Chamber on issues which are also included in today's Document No. Eight proposals. The representative, Inge Wohnung, challenged in his interpellation the Minister for Health and Care whether she believes that the obligation of professional secrecy and trust in confidentiality in the healthcare system is well cared for as it is practised today. Wages and salaries included: the following in that debate: ‘Let me remind you that the obligation of professional secrecy is in a very advanced position as well as in the law on health professionals and in the duties of health professionals, as in the law on patients’ rights. It is a very clear signal to me that the legislator, i.e. this assembly, has considered that the obligation of professional secrecy is a fundamental condition for the trust between the individual patient and the individual treating physician to be of fundamental importance; yes, simply an indispensable condition for health care to perform a satisfactory job.’ I find it difficult to see that it is the partisan trap Inge Wohnning's assessments that are followed up in the representative proposal by the staging representatives Elisabeth Aspaker, André Oktay Dahl, Martin Engeset and Bent Höie, who are also the minority in the position of the Right and Christian People's Party. Right concerns Tuesday this week is not exactly the same as Right concerns Thursday this week. Or, of course, it can be – and it is legitimate – that there is a great deal of disagreement in the Right on these matters. I want to be careful to draw conclusions now on how to balance the desire to improve the possibilities for the detection of social security abuse and privacy, and in this context in particular the obligation of professional secrecy of health professionals. That's what might be particularly sensitive in this context. I believe that the Stortinget will actually be well served to wait for the assessments that emerge after the consultation round on the matter, which I understand will end today, 15 November. We should simply take the time and show respect for the versatility of the problem that we are waiting to hear more about the assessments that are valid in the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e129	It is important to be able to participate and contribute to the detection of social security abuse, not least in view of the legitimacy of social security systems. But I'm concerned about the development related to the dissemination of a lot of private information in the healthcare sector, in the NAV system and elsewhere in society. The left is concerned about the total amount of private data available to more and more people. At the same time, it is important to find the right interface between privacy and the control needs of the NAV system. The left has received a number of examples of NAV collecting information from patient records, for unclear purposes. These are the things we have to clarify further. Furthermore, it is important to clarify how far-reaching powers NAV Control must be in order to investigate social security. It is important to reveal social security benefits, but it is also important to clarify the interface between the size of powers that NAV Control must have in order to conduct an investigation. It will be important not to have an unfortunate mix of roles in relation to the police's responsibility for criminal prosecution. One must at all times assume that people are innocent until the opposite is proved. It's right, as the representative Karin Andersen said, juks are juks, regardless of what it is. Economic crime is to be combated, and cheating is to steal from the community. The question of the collection of records will probably be commented on in detail during the consultation round, based both on privacy considerations and on the prevention or detection of social security abuse. The final legislative proposal will need to clarify a balance between these considerations. As a result, the Left will wait to decide on the proposal presented in Document No. 8:87.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e142	I think in many ways that the dilemma in this matter is very well illustrated by the contributions of both the representative Martin Engeset and Karin Andersen. I very much agree with the representative Engeset that the type of crime that social security abuse represents is very serious. Crime is serious anyway, but this is a kind of profit crime that has very harmful ring-effects if it's not taken seriously, and if it gets spread around. This is why there is a starting point for legitimising strong interventions to follow-up and combat social security abuse. At the same time, I agree with the representative, Karin Andersen, that many of those who come into the spotlight for such an extended tipping system are in a very vulnerable situation and, in this way, deserve the protection of the community. It's on the dilemma with the two reasons that we have to try to find a solution. At least I am very pleased that the majority of the committee has said that when there is now a hearing going on, and the intentions of the proposal in Document No. 8:87 is included in the hearing, we take time to read the opinions and views of the hearing bodies. There has been a broad consultation and many consultation opinions have been received. So we're going to sum this up in a proposition that comes to spring. It's not a year until it comes. It's coming in the spring. The Committee and the Stortinget will then have the opportunity to look at how the hearing bodies assess this, and then decide. It may be that we can go beyond today's law, but perhaps not as far as Document No. The 8's do. There may be an intermediate point between maintaining what is currently the legal situation and what is contained in the proposal in Document No. 8:87. Then I just want to say that in the media a number of critical remarks have recently been made on the use of patient records by the working and welfare services. It seems to be a widespread perception that the consultation note that I just mentioned suggests an extended access to the patient records, and that the department can use this information freely, among other things. by forwarding the records to the insurance industry. These views are based on a lack of knowledge of the establishment's work base and needs. I therefore find it necessary to make some comments on this, as the issue is also mentioned by the members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The reality is that the consultation note does not at all propose changes in patient records. However, it is proposed that records be obtained whenever necessary. Such a need would rarely be present in ordinary social welfare cases, but would be more relevant in case of suspicion of social security abuse in the treatment provider. When the records are obtained, the processing is subject to the requirements of the Data Protection Act on Processing, Storage and Deletion. The proposal on the development of information in the insurance industry is not intended to lead to the forwarding of records and other documents. There will be clear rules for this, so that misunderstandings are avoided. I also think it is right to mention that there have been some cases where the work and welfare centre has locally obtained patient records without there being sufficient grounds for doing so. Nor has the administrative law been complied with for such requisitions. The Ministry has intervened in this and has asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to ensure that such violations do not occur. This will also be a main consideration of the legislative proposals now under way by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e159	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e163	A number of years have passed since Ot.prp. No 60 for 2001–02, tools were put in place for the detection of social security abuse. There is no doubt that the instruments for which the Bondevik II administration was then implemented have had an impact on the detection of a very large misuse of Community funds. However, it was one of the proposals that was then promoted by the Government, which did not have a majority in Odelstinget, and is now being promoted again. The proposal would have had an impact on the detection of even more social-security abuse than has been the case at present, not least more serious abuse and more organised abuse, for example. in situations of the export of money to the rest of the world. The proposal will be met with resistance to privacy. There is reason to recall that the proposal does not provide for the possibility of some kind of free movement of information between various public agencies and private financial institutions. What is contained in the proposal is an opportunity for those persons who are currently obliged to provide information to NAV in the event of suspicion of social security abuse to notify NAV if they themselves suspect that there is an abuse. Such an opportunity to notify suspected misuse does not imply a transmission of all possible information related to this, but such a hint would lead to the initiation of an ordinary process similar to the one used when requesting such persons to provide information. Only then will the flow of information take place in exactly the same way that the majority also supports. So, in our opinion, there is no reason to turn to the large heights regarding the question of privacy in this case. I am at least very pleased that the government councils and representatives of the government parties are so open to the proposal, saying that this is a kind of instrument that one will come back and consider. In this way, there is a difference from when this was dealt with in 2002. What surprises me, however, is that the Progress Party is still strong opponents of this proposal. Most of us see it as a party occupied by law and order, and then they should be equally concerned with law and order in terms of this kind of abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e178	I think this has been a good debate, but at the same time I feel enough that part of the participants in the debate, either consciously or unconsciously, talk past each other. Our proposal has not in any way, either in text or intention, aimed at contributing to an extended right of access to people's patient records or a general access to sending patient records in the wild to anyone. It's totally misunderstanding. Rather, we say very clearly, also in the setting, that this is not about it. I even followed the interpellation debate that Inge Wohnning travelled, and that took place in Stortinget two days ago. It was a very fundamental and interesting debate, and I would recommend both the present Council of State and other members of the Government to go thoroughly into that debate. I have no problem saying that I agree with the basics of our representative Inge Wohnning in that debate. So trying to construct a discord between us at this point, there's no basis for it. In this proposal we have hit this in a very good way, I feel. But I'm also glad that the government is open to assess this. That you need a little bit of time, we understand. I look forward to the next consideration of the question. I think that in the debate, no one has basically responded to and clearly justified why there should be a single set of rules and procedures for the treatment of financial crime and money laundering, while in the case of justified suspicions of fraud and fraud in public money, there should be a completely different set of rules and procedures. I don't think that's logical, either, especially in principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e187	When I mentioned Inge Wohnning's posts, it was because his purpose to raise that interpellation debate was a very powerful attack on the government's work, among other things. with the currently out-of-office consultation proposal referred to by the Council of State. The proposal before us today states: «Persons and institutions which may be required to provide information may, on their own initiative and without prejudice to professional secrecy, inform: [[...]] The representative, Inge Wohnning, said in his article in his own interpellation debate that: ‘The obligation of professional secrecy is a fundamental condition for the trust between the individual patient and the individual treating physician to be of fundamental importance and is simply an indispensable condition for healthcare to perform a satisfactory job’. It is quite possible that there may be different approaches to this, because it is a difficult question. It is extremely difficult to find this balance, and I believe that many in this room – at least I – will feel that stronger measures should be taken to detect social security abuse. But I particularly feel that one day from a party you raise such a fundamental criticism of the government's work, and the next round so much regrets that the government does not unreservedly join in actions that are clear in the context of the criticism that was raised two days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e204	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e212	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e220	During the debate, the representative Martin Engeset, on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 28 February 1997 19 on population protection II Law 28 February 1997 No. The fourth paragraph of Section 21-4 shall be replaced by the following: those who are required to provide information, statements and statements, duties to do so without undue delay and without restriction of professional secrecy. [[People's Security Act]] Persons and institutions which may be required to provide information may, on their own initiative and without prejudice to professional secrecy, inform the social security system in the event of suspicion of the unjustified acquisition of social security funds. An institution or person who has provided information based on the second sentence in good faith may not be held liable. IIThe law shall enter into force from the time of the King’s decision.’.» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-15-lower.ana.ud2122e273	Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
