ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e61	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Inge Hallgeir Solli, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Central Party Group of Great Britain to the representative of Alf Ivar Samuelsen from 22 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, is called to meet during the period of leave.3. Janne Sjelmo Nordås is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Alf Ivar Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e87	Janne Sjelmo Nordås is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e93	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Anders Anundsen, Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Width. – Other proposals are not available, and Anders Anundsen, Kenneth Svendsen and Per Ove Wideth are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings. The representative of Trond Helleland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e102	On behalf of the biggest representatives of Erna Solberg, Øyvind Halleraker and myself, I have been delighted to propose the development of an action plan for crossing tracks and other measures to resolve the capacity crisis for rail freight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e107	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e121	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e137	I did not really intend to ask for the word in this matter. With the exception of the Progress Party, a unanimous committee is joining the Government's request for budgetary changes because there has been a greater increase in the volume of proceedings in the UDI. We look at this more as a technical matter. It is necessary to adjust the budget in the light of actual circumstances. This is therefore more to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e144	Let me first correct the case rapporteur. The progress game is actually behind the setting - it is a unanimous setting. What has been decisive for us is that we note the following: the balances in the foreign field have increased. We have a long time to deal with, and long time to deal with, conflicts with the objective of good integration. Rapid handling is a prerequisite for better integration. Of course, with the policies of the Progress Party, the issue would be different. We would have had a much faster processing time in the foreign field, for several reasons. With clear rules and limited discretion, the procedure will be simpler and easier. We also want clear limitations on appeal and readmission processes. And not least, with stricter rules in the area of alienation, the influx will also decrease. With the policies of the Progress Party, the need for increased appropriations would not be present. It is also evident from the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, where we cut in this field – assuming that we implement the immigration policy of the Progress Party, because with the immigration policy of the Progress Party, the need for resource use in this area will decline, because the influx will decline, and effective process will reduce the need for resources. In contrast to the previous statement made by the rapporteur, the Procedural Party is behind the setting. There is an overall committee behind this proposal. That's because we, given today's system, have to deal with the foreign field as it is – inefficient and with too many possibilities for recovery, appeal, etc. In fact, Norway attracts many — many people want to go to Norway — on the basis of what we call a clever foreign policy. We have to take that over. That is why we also see the need to provide funds to the foreign administration, and we therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e157	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3052]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e174	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e190	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e210	The President apologizes to the Council of State for having to wait a few seconds to see if the representative André Oktay Dahl, who should of course be present, is coming. After the representative André Oktay Dahl had entered the room,
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e215	In the future, the representative will take care of the clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e218	Right now it feels like I've tried out some of what I'm going to talk about here today. – The school is an important arena to ensure that children and young people get the best starting point possible to fix their lives later. A safe growth combined with a school that takes each student seriously and equips the individual to face life outside the school gate are important factors, but not always enough, given that young people start experimenting with drugs earlier and earlier. The Norwegian authorities, like their Nordic colleagues, have set out a broad approach to achieving the goal of the so-called drugfree Nordic region. However, if this objective is impracticable in practice, it should not lead to a reduction in the level of ambition, either in terms of police action, youth psychiatry, rehabilitation, organised school training that counteracts social differences and not just allows social problems to be inherited, better functioning child protection, better interaction between public aid agencies, a new chance policy that will ensure that young people who are untapped by the party baptism generation come back to work, or in terms of emphasising the responsibility of individuals in relation to their own lives and the ability of everyone to take responsibility for others, without limiting themselves to taking a telephone to the police or to the municipality. All of these are themes that could deserve each of their interpellation, where we have a lot left to do, and that form parts of the back carpet for what is the more concrete question that I'm raising here today. Governments are concerned with a knowledge-based justice policy. It is also the Right, and we could have wished that the rest of the research effort, where justice constitutes the least of the stebarna in the government budget, was soon over. In any case — and for the first time to remove any doubts — we do not believe that drug testing of young people by itself is a solution to the challenges we face in relation to youth drug use, but it can be a small but important piece, in addition to coordinating anti-drug work in a much better way than today. When a clear minority of Norwegian municipalities have established an SLT system that works, and the establishment of police councils in some places can be feared to be removed from the head without being clarified in relation to the SLT, there may be more cooks and more sluggishness — to the detriment of children and young people in the risk zone who, for various reasons, are at risk of developing a drug problem and who, because of already lack of interaction, are not able to catch up. Using words as ‘anxious’ about a situation in which, in particular, the school operates as a part of a free zone for drug use is a powerful understatement. The response to drug abuse is poorly coordinated and partly random, and we all share a shared responsibility for taking the situation seriously. Of course, when it comes to the substance testing issue itself, this is a matter that needs to be regulated and has a clear basis, as the Swedish government is now proposing. On the other hand, there has not yet been a comprehensive assessment of this issue in Norway – as far as I understand having clarified it with the investigation department here in the house. We've seen how, for example, in the past. approx. At the same time, 50 students in secondary and secondary schools at the Norwegian private school at Torrevieja, Costa Blanca, Spain, carried out a programme in which, in full understanding with their parents, they were finally tested for drug abuse, and during the first two years, a series of episodes of drug abuse were revealed that enabled action to be taken against the individual student. The demand for drug testing was made from the school’s Internet site as part of the rules on admission. The education director of Oslo and Akershus pointed out, correctly at the time, that this was illegal practice at the time it was done. In the United Kingdom, the first example of the introduction of random tests by students to find out whether they are using drugs was done at a high school in Kent in January 2005. It was here about tests where the parents gave their consent, and no students were tested against their will. We also see from the debate in Sweden that there are a number of issues that need to be addressed in a possible revision of the law. In addition to the almost natural legal argument on the impairment of integrity, which we also emphasize, it can be argued that the test results are not necessarily 100 pst. I'm sure of it. If you don't do it the right way, it can be a kind of a receipt that you don't abuse drugs, even if you do. Nevertheless, the debate in both Sweden, other European countries and the United States illustrates that we are in an area where there is a need for a better overview of how to actually detect drug abuse in Norwegian schools and that we are clarifying the framework for the work being done today. If we are not to go as far as the Swedish government is now proposing in Sweden, it is important that we intervene at an early stage in relation to vulnerable groups, and it can be done in practice by conducting urine tests based on consent and in cooperation with the school health service. Then, of course, you can ask whether the students are likely to agree to this, but it can be a good indisium that he or she is actually an addict. In addition, there may be a good way to establish contact between school and parents, alongside the fact that, hopefully, it will have a preventative effect. I would also say that this can be a way to fill parts of the adult void, which too many seem to get bigger and bigger. If any abuse is documented, this could further be used to demonstrate the abuse of treatment institutions. It's still not easy, for example. the protection of children to document drug abuse today. With regard to any objection that urine samples will be stigmatizing, I think most people understand that of course you should not add up to a practice where it is distinguished from who is called for conversation and urine tests. There may be many good reasons to call a student into a conversation, without necessarily dealing with drug abuse, and the conversation must of course be silent. I know that this is one of many areas where the Council of State has expressed a desire for greater involvement. There is a need for more knowledge of the extent to which all of our ‘preventive measures’ measures actually help to keep younger people away from alcohol and drug abuse. Therefore, I believe that this is an important piece, which I hope the Council of State will confirm that he will evaluate in the Government, like the Swedish Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e247	Initially, I would like to pay tribute to the interpellant for raising an important question, not only in terms of combating crime, but also in terms of social policy problems: how can we be able to prevent drug problems better, not least in terms of children and young people? I also want to make it quite clear that the government is open to impulses and input that can make the work against drug abuse better and lead to fewer people getting into a situation that is hard to get out of. I agree with the representative André Oktay Dahl that there is still a lot to gain from strengthening cooperation between different agencies and further developing the coordination of anti-drug work in order to prevent the development of drug abuse, especially among young people. However, I am not convinced that testing school students for drug abuse is the way to go. In my opinion, it would be a major intervention in the privacy of people, for example. would open up the schools to have the opportunity to take urine or blood tests, which I also perceive the interpellant far on the way agree with, sail if there was a suspicion of it from the school side. Here, in my opinion, we must weigh the different considerations against each other, so that we do not overreact, but face the problem of measures that we know could help. However, I am open to recordings that can provide knowledge and significant input to prevent drug abuse among children and young people. In this way, I will follow the work that is now to be done in Sweden. I am also informed that there has been international testing in school. Among other things, the Pompidou Group of the Council of Europe has investigated and evaluated drug testing in schools. Sick if there have also been any potential benefits in testing, Pompidou Group ethics committees pointed out in the final treatment of the previous period’s work programme to several disadvantages that need to be assessed if such tests are to be carried out. These tests were not recommended together, and it was pointed out that tests could undermine the necessary trust in school, good pedagogical practice and trust between teachers, students and parents. Furthermore, it was noted that there is currently no evidence that drug testing in schools has a positive effect in preventing abuse. However, on the part of the Government, it will be most important, as was also the interpellant, to facilitate the prevention of drug abuse, particularly among young people. In this context, I would like to recall my reply on 10 March 2006 to written question No. 536 from the representative André Octay Dahl, on the testing of workers suspected of drug abuse in the workplace, where I pointed out that it would be far more effective to continue the prevention of drug abuse in the workplace than to test workers suspected of drug abuse. As in specific cases, the Labour Environment Act provides for effective control measures to ensure a working environment that can provide full protection against physical and mental harm, so there will also be opportunities at school, where there is concrete suspicion of specific persons, to take action, including police action in the event of drug law offences. It's, simple and simple, illegal. The school is thus no lawless zone of clearance. However, individual offenders are entitled to fair and predictable treatment on the part of society — regardless of age, seafaring. In this context, I recall that this also occurred when the police in Oslo in March/April 2005 conducted an action at Sogn Secondary School against possession and storage of drugs, after having been contacted by the school. Both the school and the police had growing concerns about the use and trafficking of drugs at school. Majorstua police station had for a long time worked closely with the school and were able to act intently. Suffering about the action was achieved after school attendance, the effort was planned and implemented in cooperation with the SLT coordinator of the city concerned, the Child Welfare Service and the child-rescue guard at the Oslo police district – so there were more here. These were part of the operation, if any, under 18 years of age. As a legal basis to search 15 students and their lockers at the school, a search warrant from Oslo District Court was available. I say this, because there are therefore instruments in the current legislation to just go in and check where you have legitimate suspicion. Prevention of drug abuse is a central part of the work to create good growth conditions for children and young people. Then I would like to say that it is not that it looks quite black in terms of drug use among children and young people in Norway. For many people and in many studies we have actually seen a positive development. Few people use stronger drugs. As far as I remember, it's less than 20 pst. of young people who have tried to use hashish, and the figure is not increasing. There is reason to point out that much of the prevention done, not only under this government, but also under previous governments, has actually worked. I would particularly like to point out two elements, and it is related to seeing drug abuse as a whole. It is in those municipalities and it is in those schools where a liberal alcohol policy is pursued, where alcohol consumption is higher than elsewhere, that more drugs are also tested and used. We have good research around it, so one of the main elements for preventing drug abuse and testing is, in fact, that a restrictive drug policy is in place in general. It concerns both the availability, the donation and the sale of alcoholic beverages, as most people who try hashish often do so in alcohol intoxication. The second element of this is that the dominant drug among high school students and high school students is actually alcohol. I am pleased that the interpellant also brings with it the idea of preventing both drug and alcohol abuse. I would like to welcome all possible initiatives, in particular from the Right, with regard to the prevention and prevention of alcohol abuse. Cities and agglomerations where there are several outlets available, greater availability for the sale of alcoholic beverages, and where there are longer opening hours, give clear signals to young people that these are accepted goods, this is something we do not want to put a stop to. It is a poor preventive policy. The fact that you have a lot of outlets and a lot of outlets also contributes to the fact that you often lower the threshold to give and sell to minors. Competition becomes tough, and control is not going to be as good as it should have been. I think we see signs of this in many larger cities, including here in Oslo. It is high time that those with political responsibility for prevention in this area actually take this responsibility. If research is to be taken into account — and I understand that the interpellant is also concerned about it — then one of the most important things will be to tackle the tough prevention, so that alcohol consumption among young people, and older people, does not become high. In fact, this is one of the indicators that help young people, as well as older people, to more easily try to use drugs. Over the years, prevention work in Norway has been broad. It is linked to restrictive alcohol policies, but it is also linked to many good cooperation projects. I could have mentioned many of them in this context. As far as the police are concerned, I would like to highlight in particular the concerns that are now taking place between police and parents, in cases where there is reason to believe, among other things, that. drugs are used. The anxiety calls are a good arena to go into this field, and maybe a better arena than the testing itself would be. Interpellant is well-known that the government is now establishing a number of police councils around the country. I believe it is certainly important that the police get better contact with politicians and decision-makers in the municipalities, so that they among other things. may provide the signals necessary to operate effective prevention, inter alia. with regard to drug policy. In the police councils that are already established – and I am pleased to see that the establishment is faster than we expected, sometimes it can be done in politics too – we see that political debates are going on if the interpellant is now moving forward, namely how to prevent better. It is, after all, better to prevent crime from happening, and prevent us from getting more with drug problems than we still have to repair and react. Then it's much too late – compared to creating less damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e270	After I have been in the media with this show, I have received enquiries from the police, child protection, school, actors for those who work against youth violence, individuals with drug users as parents and who have been drug users themselves, who have said that this is a good proposal. There may, of course, be divided opinions about it, but I'm emphasising that there is a professional environment that I think is a reason to rely on, which says that you should have a knowledge-based policy in the area of justice. An important part in terms of e.g.: child protection does not intervene early enough is that they lack evidence to take the necessary decisions so that they can implement the necessary measures. Having the opportunity to test children in the risk zone for possible drug abuse can reveal the use of drugs. Then the child protection system has the opportunity to intervene at an early stage. That, I think, could be an important contribution to strengthening the ability of child protection to help those children who, unfortunately, have gone for too many years and who are still going, too lye and cold water in this country. I believe that it is a matter of willingness at least to answer a question that is being looked at in our neighbouring country. This is not about moralism, it's not about putting anyone in prison — it's about revealing that someone has a problem, so that action can be taken as early as possible. We see that a number of schools are developing into drug free zones. This does not mean that everyone is using drugs or that everyone has a problem, but it means that more and more of a very large minority are at risk of developing a drug problem. So for prevention and alcohol: alcohol is a legal drug — it is not drugs — but there is no reason not to take seriously the consequences of alcohol abuse on those involved. I would also like us in that debate to focus most on those people who, because of a sleep or an empty space in both the head and heart, fill it with alcohol rather than anything else. Then we have to focus on what makes people have an alcohol problem. There may be a lack of psychiatric services, rehabilitation services, child protection that does not intervene at the right time, or a school that makes sure to reproduce social differences — all the social factors that make you get a start in life and fall outside. In the case of Oslo, it is actually the case that local authorities here have launched a large-scale action to do something about the most important, namely to ensure that minors, for example: alcohol is not served at an outdoor site. A large-scale operation has been carried out and will continue beyond the summer to take unprofessional players in the industry. This should continue. Otherwise, I record that the government's announced drug plan, which was due to come last fall, has not yet arrived. There is no increasing effort in psychiatry, cutting it, as well as in the provision of rehabilitation. We have child protection in crisis, and now one will not consider following the advice given by some police, child protection, school and individuals who have felt on the body what a drug problem means to themselves and the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e285	I want to repeat that we accept all the good recordings with thanks. There is absolute reason to invite you to debate where we can think about prevention. But I'll warn you a little bit about creating a prevention drug policy that is based almost on automatic testing, and where it's the test results that will determine which of the young people we're going to see, and which of the young people we're going to talk to. In fact, the whole idea behind the welfare policy and efforts of the red-green government in relation to the public sector is to make it easier to see children and young people. We will develop a school that will have time to deal with those who are struggling — either with schooling or with drug problems. It'll be sad if we get a society that only reacts because it's going to be the outcome of some chemical test. In fact, we should have the opportunity to discover that children — our children, our young people — are struggling with drug problems, and as serious drug problems as drug abuse will involve, without necessarily depending on samples from the Rechtsthosciology Institute. I want a society in which we have the opportunity to discover it in completely different ways – discover it through worried conversations, through a police force that actually has time to talk about concerns, through teachers who have time to move in with children and who have the opportunity to talk to parents so that you can get it up in the best social way. What also helps to promote action is dialogue, both with children and young people, but also with those around them. I am afraid that a test, rather than the opposite, will be a passivating one so that no action can be taken, not get the necessary dialogue and trust. One should have a health sister who has time and opportunity to reveal, but also to be able to talk on and discuss in a good hour what do we do now, when we face such a situation. I believe that the prevention aspect of this needs to be seen more widely than just being able to reveal that we have a drug problem. When we face youth with drug problems, it is often the case that we see them and know that it is problematic — but the problem is that it has not been seized early enough. There we all have a common responsibility, and I believe that much of what the Government is doing in terms of bets against both municipalities, health, child protection and the police helps us to see more easily, but also that we have a much greater opportunity to take action to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e296	It's an important theme the interpellant addresses today. The government has already taken several good measures — and will take good action — in relation to the prevention and rehabilitation of young people experiencing a drug problem. Sad to say, we have young people who get a drug problem when they go to school, both in high school and in high school. I feel that when it comes to testing the individual, which is the proposal here, we should be careful – precisely from the argument that is based on trust in school and public. Rather, other tools should be used to help individuals: the possibility of close contact with their parents, good dialogue between school and parents, and, where difficult, having a youth health sister who can help support, or child protection entering where necessary. We also have organisations today that I want to highlight, such as Youth Against Violence. They work very well in this field and take care of not only those who commit violence, but also those who have a drug problem and who can be expelled from school because of it – so that they get a follow-up and have something to do with during the period they are expelled, and do not commit new criminal acts or remain in the drug environment they may be part of. It is also very important that young people who are motivated to get rehabilitation get it, and that there is room for them when they are ready for it. If the abuse leads to criminal acts and you go to prison or you are going to punish for the criminal act, it is important that the government bets in several §12-soning places, that you bet on education in prison, just to give these young people a foundation to get out of the drug habit. It is important to focus on prevention of abuse, to work with information services to provide young people with information on the consequences of drug abuse, starting with drugs. What is referred to here — both the action taken by the Oslo Police in Sogn High School and the fact that we have started with a police council that is the extension of the SLT — are important examples of how prevention is used to address these problems. The interpellant Oktay Dahl mentions that the Municipality of Oslo works actively to take the gift points that give to minors is also important, and I think they should have the honor for that. When we look at children and young people who have a drug problem, it is important, as the Council of State says, that we see the whole of our drug policy. It's related to the times of giving and how many tips you have, and that you have alternative places for young people to stay that are not related to drugs. What the Government has put forward in the Soria Moria Declaration, and the policy we pursue – that we see the whole of the drug policy, work well and have an offer of rehabilitation when it is desirable – is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e311	It's an important theme being put on the track here by André Oktay Dahl today. Drug problems and abuse have had major dimensions in our society, and that is why we need to take it very seriously. However, I think that the Council of State in its speech did place a great deal of emphasis on a general alcohol policy. I would like to distance myself from that – not because I disagree that it is important to pursue a predictable, structured and sensible alcohol policy, but a general alcohol policy is just one dimension in this matter. On the other hand, I am pleased that the Council of State said that prevention has worked. That's what's so difficult about prevention; it's so hard to measure. We know that both alcohol policy and prevention are discussed in municipalities, but it is difficult to prioritize it, difficult to spend a lot of money on it, because there are so few results to show. This is why it is important when the Council of State actually stands here and says that prevention has worked. We have to believe that. We can't stop believing that prevention works. There are also other measures that I want to come up with as an angle here, and that concerns our social conditions in general. Adult rooms were used as a moment in the debate here instead. Seeing the kids, seeing the kids, is one of the most important things we adults can do. We must have tolerance and respect for children and young people. We as adults are going to be polite, and we're going to demand the same thing back. With shame to report, I think we in our country have not been good enough in this area. Schools have courtesies and polite campaigns. That should be unnecessary. It should have been automatic in it and of course that children have reverence for adults, and that children greet. But then respect and tolerance must also go the other way, from the adults. Here I think we've lost something on the way in our welfare community, unfortunately. A society without such values will be a poor society, and it will also lay a foundation for children to become lonely, isolated, and to get out with social problems and abuse problems. That is why we must take this very seriously. This debate is about school, and it is not a lawless free zone, as was quite rightly said. The school connects the police when students do something they are not allowed to do. Schools carry out important preventive work. It is important that they have opportunities to do so, that they focus on it, and that they understand that the work they do with prevention is important. Many schools have student care groups where a network of health professionals, children’s protection and parents is set up around the individual child in a danger zone or in a situation of concern, and where all the agencies are in and follow up on this child. It is a very important measure, which, if used correctly, will be good prevention. Then we have municipalities that have SLT, coordination of local measures, where the police are inside the picture, and where you will also be able to catch up. There's one thing I could imagine hearing the Council's reflections around, and it's the importance of having regular people at every school that can be a network, with police, health professionals and school — that's a triangle that can follow the kids. But there must be regular people who are constantly in close contact with children who are in a state of concern. I have faith in such networks and in that they can work, because they will see the children, and they will be able to follow the children with interest. Then you have testing, which this debate is about. I don't think anyone should be so afraid of testing and say no. We're talking about legal language, but we're also going to talk about the children's best, and what's for the children's best. It may be that one should not say no immediately to any use of testing. Let's look at the experiment that's going on in Sweden, let's get investigations, and let's get a little bit more debate about testing for those who might need it. Actually, I think there'll be a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e328	This case is about what we do in meeting children and young people under 18 who are rushing — perhaps the biggest horror for parents, that their kids are coming out for intoxication in mild or severe form. One wants the best for his child, and the rush can threaten a positive future for a youth. It may be the greatest concern parents have, that school should be a free zone for drug abuse. The school must not be. But the Christian People's Party does not believe in testing, such collective testing to prevent the school from having rushing students, like the way to go. Here one needs to use other measures. One can use the police to reject drug addicts from school. For the school's part, testing is not the answer. School should be a co-player when a youth has a drug problem. But what tools does the school have to do this? Yes, someone's got child-restraint. As the headmaster of a high school, I've been in the desperate situation that we've had high-schooled youths who will help and child protection will help, but child protection only has voluntary measures if it's just a drug addiction. Child protection can only intervene with coercion when the problem becomes serious enough. It's a cross of thought. However, in a situation where parents want help and action, where child protection is on the path of voluntary action, where the teacher and the school set up the network around the student, and the student does not want to do it himself, testing may be needed to get the student — the child or the youth — to realize that a problem exists. The school may be a co-player in this – not a test that controls to expel, but a co-player who is involved in detecting, detecting and solving a problem. What should one say to parents who bring their 14-year-old girl to the contact teacher and say, "We think our daughter is rushing." The teacher says, "I think so too." The health nurse has little time to meet the child, but says, "Yes, here's a drug problem that child protection should address, and child protection says, "We can't do anything as long as the student doesn't want to. What does one of these parents answer? Maybe testing could have been a step in the right direction. The Christian People's Party wants us to look to Sweden, that we should investigate and assess whether such a bill can help in situations where we want to help young people on the right track. However, if this instrument, some form of testing, is to be put into service, it must be done in cooperation with the parents. It would have been good if we could have a policy that didn't tell the parents that they have to wait until the problems get a little more serious before they get help. We need help now for those who have a drug problem. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Council of State that one must see the problem of drugs as a whole. One has to take all the drug problems seriously. It is true that there is a link between liberal alcohol policy and drug use. Only when a focus on cannabis in general can a few do something about the problem in terms of availability. Of course, a driving mind-creating work should be done. Yes, we're going to have measures that restrict the marketing of alcohol and prohibit other drugs, but we're not going to get along with the fact that we also have to take action with those who become drug addicts. Not only is it useful to focus on information and awareness-raising, but it also has to be well-responsive to those who are desperate to have a youth who is rushing. The Christian People's Party wants a drug plan where the government not only comes with naturalities, but with concrete changes where society takes care of the drug problem. Although it may not have increased, it is a major problem for every single youth involved and leads to a desperate situation for parents who are up there. So I hope that the Council of State will evaluate testing, not that collective testing, but as a help in the individual situation where a child is running at a young age.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e346	The most important thing about this debate is that it shows that all parties here agree that prevention is important from a broad perspective. So maybe there's a little disagreement about the instruments. The important thing here, as the representative of Bjørg Tørresdal mentioned, is that prevention should be consent-based, it must be done in cooperation with parents and school health services in a way that does not work stigmatizingly but that contributes to the provision of evidence such as: child protection needs to be able to take early action — something they cannot do today. I have received an enquiry from Youth vs. Violence. They do in many ways a fire-fighting and preventive work that some of our other public aid agencies do not quite manage to do. There may be many reasons for this — but at least, they cooperate with seven schools. They see what I'll call a ticking integration bomb, a drug bomb and a crime bomb, right under our feet. They say that this is a good suggestion, simply because they see that it is not really that immigrant boys or immigrant girls do not enjoy either alcohol or other drugs, even though the Koran says not to do so – they are increasingly victims of drug abuse. I think it's worth listening to this, whether that's what we can call grassroots work, field work or whatever it is now, when it comes to getting knowledge about how reality is. Because there's a paradox in relation to the representative Kari Lise Holmberg, that we're getting more and more adult spaces the more and more public employees we've got in all the different relief measures. Then you can ask questions about how it can be, because the population has actually not increased in the pact with the number of public servants to help young people in the danger zone. Neither is it that the percentage of young people in danger has become so much larger, but you can do less and less to help some of those in the grey zone. Then an organisation like Youth vs. Violence is a solution to that. It is seen that this is an action that can work for the group to which they are referring, and we will probably see the results of crime statistics in the future if we do nothing at this time. I think it would have been okay not only to assume that something is working, but if you also carried out an investigation, so that you can have a real basis to discuss the matter. It would be to have a knowledge-based justice policy. As far as SLTs are concerned, everyone agrees that it is important – but it is a paradox that SLTs have been in place for 15 years or more, and there is a clear minority of Norwegian municipalities that have a functioning system. I was in a municipality yesterday where they discussed the confidentiality rules for 15 years. It's only now that they start getting into an SLT model that works. When it comes to setting up police councils, we all agree here that this is important. But it does not keep up with press releases and wishes in this room, because there are some practical challenges in setting up police councils, not least that they are coordinated in relation to already existing SLT work. I think the Council of State, in addition to having the same commitment as all of us in terms of police councils and SLTs, must address the challenges and ensure that clear guidelines on how police councils should be developed in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e356	I thank everyone for a very all right debate. I hope that we can have more debates of this kind in Stortinget, because I think we all too often have debates where we are affected by current events, that something has happened that causes us to be event-driven and not knowledge-driven, as the interpellant has also pointed out. It gives us an opportunity not only to create the necessary political pressure, but also to take action both in terms of resources and in terms of law. Regarding the question of testing, I would like to say: We are going to have a Nordic Minister of Justice meeting this June, and this is a matter I want to raise with my Swedish colleague and hear how the work goes. At least in an appropriate form, I will return to Stortinget with the assessments we make in relation to the Swedish experience. So a little bit about the police council, which the interpellant was about. I am absolutely convinced that more explanation is needed on how police councils should work, especially against the SLT – it is absolutely an important input. There is also the background to the fact that the police director has published a guide for that work. It is now being reworked, and it will also include how this is to be coordinated with the SLT work outside the municipalities. But it's not just press releases around the police council and talk here in the hall, fortunately, because I think at least there are between ten and twenty municipalities that have now established this. We already see that this travels exactly the kind of debate that the interpellant has raised here in the Storting, but they travel in the bodies where the decisions and power are in relation to much of the prevention, namely in the municipalities. Should we, as the representative Holmberg was in the house, create fewer adult-empty spaces, it is to do to get the communities to step in. And I am absolutely convinced, as the representative Tørresdal was also concerned, that we need firm people, networks, around those who are struggling. Of course, the police must also be involved. A close police officer has just the opportunity to connect with regular, well-known people, so that they have confidence and confidentiality in relation to them. I am absolutely convinced that we will see the good effect of that kind of work in the future. Finally, as far as drug policy is concerned, it is not the case that we simply have to pursue alcohol policy or just drug policy. We're going to drive both of them. But it is a paradox that youth is primarily struggling with in Norway – 60–70 pst. Of those entering drug use — alcohol problems. This is the element remaining as an indicator of what promotes drug use and testing. It also requires that we do something other than hang up posters and run information campaigns. It calls for preventive policies in the area of alcohol policy too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e369	That being the case, it is no. 5 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e387	A new high season is approaching for the boat people, and it is very good that so many people have the opportunity to holiday in a boat along our coast and in our fine archipelago. It's very nice to stay in the middle of a vacation for people. It is usually nice when all the boat tourists come. It creates life along the coast and gives jobs and growth, and it provides good recreation for thousands of people in the summer. But this is to be combined with the life that lives along the coast all year round. Many have their work at sea – fishermen, ferry crews, taxi boat crews and all those who carry different services both to the residents of the islands and to those who have their cabins and holiday homes in the archipelago and along the coast strip, and actually all those who use the boat as their natural means of livelihood because they live in the archipelago. I would think it is quite demanding to be a co-pilot on a ferry when hundreds of boats travel in all directions, across and across, both in front and behind the ferry. The singer Alf Cranner, who sails from Kragerø, has described this well in one of his visas, which he wrote many years ago. He was quite predictable when he wrote that next year it is “safe that we get a new European road at sea”. And that's exactly what we got. The European road has moved out onto the water. It's hard to imagine that it's in and around, for example. Kragerø moves between 10,000 and 15 000 small boats a day only inside the archipelago. Counties show that between 300000 and 400000 boats pass during a few summer weeks. This isn't especially for Kragerøskjærgården, it's for large parts of our coastline. That means we have big challenges. I don't think anyone wants a development like the one we've seen in recent years: several accidents, more with death to follow. Many families are simply afraid to go out to sea with the kids. More I know, has actually sold his boat because they feel unsafe at sea. It's been said to be just as serious about marine accidents as it is on the road. We need to address these developments when the trend is towards more, bigger and faster boats, more drivers with insufficient skills and generally a bad attitude towards others in the boat and by the sea. It's said that high speed, without lanterns, in the dark is deadly. The age limit in the boat is a problem. The minimum age should be assessed in my opinion. Police checks show locked flotation vests, which no one can take on in the event of an accident. I have registered that a sample has recommended a boat license based on size and engine power. This I hope to be introduced. But it should be mandatory to wear the vest. There is no point in having it locked under the floor. I think it should be appropriate to assess the per mill limit on the sea. Maybe the withdrawal of a driving licence is an instrument? I don't want to take the joys from people. I have grown up in sea at a time when the cook and the barn were a means of emergence on the sea. A dart or two on the way home had rare consequences at that speed there. But life on the sea is so changed that boat and alcohol actually don't belong together. When traffic is so high at sea, I think it's vital to have enough police resources out there. It undoubtedly has a good effect to keep the police boat visible in the port pool. But the sea is more than the port pool, and the summer life is more than the sea. Thousands of fjords and leaders are impossible to oversee, as well as being safe on land. I believe that a number of measures are important to assess to improve culture and to get respect for the sea under the skin of people. We who live along the coast, and all those who are going to vacation in the archipelago and along the coast, will have security and security put on the agenda. I want Stortinget – and the Minister of Justice – to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e413	Initially, I want to make it clear that the Government, in line with the inter-pellant, sees providing security for society – including at sea – as a very important welfare issue and a clearly prioritised task. I have a great deal of understanding that the representative addresses the issue, not only in the light of the fact that she is from Kragerø, but also in the light of the police's own statistics and the experience we have gained, especially during the last summers, the power of the boats and – I kept saying – the scope, and of course also the fact that we are now in front of a new boat season. Small boat and recreational boat traffic in Norway has increased considerably in recent years. As a natural consequence, the number of accidents and accidents at sea is also increasing. In an area where it is to be pleasant, where the interpellant was in, where you are going to have a vacation, we cannot allow such a development. This causes a growing need for control and monitoring at sea, mainly by the police. This monitoring and control task is entrusted to the police chief in each police district. The task must be adapted and carried out within the framework of the means allocated to the police district and within the priorities given by the overall authority. Of course, the effort and control of small boat traffic must be adapted to the other police tasks and challenges in the police districts. In connection with this interpellation, I have been in contact with the Police Directorate, and after the feedback I have received from it, it is my impression that those police officers who have coastline and small boat traffic challenges meet the challenges and tasks of this area in a satisfactory way. This means that the police districts which have large small boat traffic, especially during holiday periods, such as: in the East and South, allocates a reasonable and balanced amount of time and resources to this important task. Following local evaluations, there are a significant number of police boats scattered around the relevant police districts, with varying levels of service arrangements and patrols. I was with such a boat last summer in Oslofjorden and got to see just how useful these boats were, and what effort was made, on this occasion from the Eastfold police district. The Directorate of Police coordinates this type of service by virtue of the overall authority, inter alia: in the event of an annual seafarer’s seminar for police boat personnel, in which the year’s challenges and performance of services are reviewed in more detail. For the current year - 2007 - it is indicated that the level of this service should not be less than in 2006, rather the opposite. As you know, the government has chosen in the revised national budget to propose increasing the resources of the police across the country, including in Oslo, while at the same time increasing the police budgets from our position. This is supposed to help improve the capacity of rural areas, for example: to deal with such problems as we see at sea, especially during our holidays. I would also like to have contact with the police director and the police director towards the summer vacation, in the light of this interpellant debate, to ensure that the engagement and pressure of the interpellant will be given the necessary attention in police Norway when the summer season is set in too full. In addition to the service of police service vessels, I would also like to point out the not insignificant effort made by the Coast Guard in close cooperation with the police. The Coast Guard is equipped with limited police authorities and cooperates closely with the police both centrally and locally with internal surveillance, including for the purpose of monitoring and control of boat traffic. It is known at Stortinget, and the Stortinget has also joined the proposals made by the Government to strengthen the Coast Guard budgets and efforts. In addition, the police cooperate with a number of organisations that are central to the coastal area, not least the rescue company’s vessels. In conclusion, I would also like to mention that, in addition to police control, it is important to strengthen boatmasters' knowledge and attitudes about maritime conditions. We get more boat drivers, many of them are reasonably young, and we have good wealth in Norway, so that many expensive and powerful boats are bought. The members of the Judicial Committee of the Workers' Party presented in November 2004 a proposal for the introduction of a compulsory boat driving licence, Document No. 8:21 for 2004-2005. The justification referred to much of the representative's question, namely that most accidents involving a recreational boat are caused by high speed, the use of drugs, the lack of life-saving equipment and the lack of maritime competence. The measures the representative mentions in his post, both in relation to the pro-mille and the boat driving licence, are central when we are now to follow up this work, which was initiated by the Workers' Party in 2004. The proposal did not receive a majority at the time. Inner. S. No 102 for 2004-2005. However, last year I took the initiative to review the introduction of a mandatory boat driver certification. In cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Directorate for Maritime Affairs, a wide-ranging working group was set up. The report of that working group was delivered to the Maritime Directorate on 7 May this year. The working group has concluded that the introduction of a mandatory boatmaster test will be an important step in improving the safety of recreational craft. Similarly, I consider it very important that people have certain minimum knowledge of seafaring to drive a boat. However, there must also be a reasonable and balanced delineation of, for example, the type of boats covered by such a requirement, knowledge requirements, penalties, etc. A compulsory boatmaster certification system can be a very important step towards providing greater safety at sea. This is therefore now to be assessed in the respective departments, and we will return to the Stortinget in an appropriate way on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e437	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. I am very pleased that he is so strongly signaling that he will focus on the challenges that have arisen here. I understand, of course, that the Minister of Justice cannot be concrete in all his answers to the challenges I face. But I feel that the Minister of Justice is taking this very seriously. I am very pleased with the signal about the boat license. It makes sense to me that when small boat traffic is as close as it is, the rules at sea cannot be as liberal as they are now. I still believe that the per mill limit should be assessed. It is obvious that we wear the safety belt when we sit in the car. It is not just that it should be installed in the car. We need a license to drive mopeds, and that's actually the age limit to do that. At least then, I think there are measures that should be considered. Then it was good to hear the Minister of Justice say that it is the local police who are to take care of the civilian population. First of all, it's the police's job and not the Coast Guard's. I am happy to hear that the service we are talking about here should not be less in 2007 than it was in 2006. I just want one more time to poke away at this with promille. A large control carried out on the Telemark Coast last summer showed that everyone – everyone – who was stopped had promille. 17 of them had a promille of over 0.8. That seems to me to be such a strong signal that I hope the Minister of Justice will remember it. He has also signaled that promille is some of the things that he might consider on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e453	With regard to the activity taking place at sea, we need to put in place exactly the same measures and make the same assessments that were taken in the previous inter-pelling debate, and there are issues of prevention. It's actually much better that we can prevent, than that it's melting on the sea. We know that there can be quite as serious accidents with fatal outcomes. This is an area that you might have been given the closest idea of is illegal. If you're out on the open sea, you kind of have a free surface. We can't allow that. It is absolutely essential that preventive measures are put in place. Police alone will never be able to react so strongly that we get the number of accidents down to zero, especially when we see the strong growth and activity we have in small boats. I'm glad that the interpellant is so clearly focusing on this. I also think that the police will be the most central actors for just being able to run prevention. Therefore, I believe that the work that has now been done on boat driving licences will be central when the Government is now going to sit down to see what kind of action you can take. As I said in my main post, we have this in mind. It is also natural to look at the obvious link between boating in an alcohol-induced condition and damage to the sea. Just like the same problems that we're struggling with on land, we're perhaps even more struggling on the sea. There are special traditions attached to this. I think we can put into practice rules, whether it goes on the per million limit or other measures, it's information measures or parts of the certification, which make sure that at least we get a much greater awareness of this issue. I can promise, as I also said in my main post, that the recordings that have come from the interpellant, including when it comes to issues of intoxication, will be taken with us when we are now considering measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e464	I would like to commend the representative, Gunn Olsen, for putting light on such an important theme as this, namely maritime safety. What I want to focus most on here is a compulsory boat driver's certificate scheme. I think of this as one of the most important tools for bringing down the number of marine casualties. As has been said here, much has happened in society in recent years. The boat people were previously welcome to be born and raised by boat. They learned to handle the boat from the small ones. They could read charts. They knew how to lead out and in and knew each and every one a cut low, and not least they had respect for the sea and the forces of nature. Well-being development means that it is now often the wallet that decides what kind of boat we buy, not the need. The wallet controls the size of the boat and the equipment the boat should have. The boats are increasing speed and the engines are increasing. As has been said many times here, it is far from everyone who masters these big boats. They cannot even use the on-board device. There's two things I want to point out here. It's actually a crazy run we want to survive when we talk about mandatory certificates. We don't want to order them to take certificates, nor do the boat people who have been boating for many years. They must be able to take such a certificate in an unproblematic and straightforward manner. But what we want to live with is the raw run of many people, like on Dad's boat. As has been said here, the police have been strengthened in the budget. Of course, it is important that the police use time and resources to secure the safety guard both with supervision and control. At least in budgetary terms, we have been able to have at least as many police controls this summer as last summer. In fact, they should also be able to cope with more. At sea as a country by country, a restrictive drug policy is important. I'm very much in agreement with what has been said here. It's also important to do a staggering job. I would therefore like to express a clear majority in order to maintain the restrictive drug policy that we actually have in Norway, and then we must start thinking more about the consequences if there is a free flow of alcohol at all times of the day. For me, it's a paradox that we require a certificate to run a moped of 5 hp on the highway, while one at sea can carry a boat of up to 50 feet with e.g. 200 hp without certificate. I have a lot of understanding of the problem that has been raised here. I'm glad that on May 7th we got the statement about the safety at sea that we've been waiting for. What is important now is that we manage to follow up with measures, and as I said, I consider a mandatory boat certificate as a very important tool here. I am therefore pleased with the signal given by the Minister of Justice that we should get ahead of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e487	It's often revisited by themes, and this is such a theme. The difficult point in the matter is to distinguish between all those who have boat knowledge and master boat well, and those who do not. Even I think maybe a useful approach to that is looking at what kind of engine performance you're responsible for dealing with. If you think of it that way, you might also get a reasonable sort of measure. Sometimes it's easier, sometimes it's more demanding. I am absolutely sure that the working group that has been set up will lead to an attempt to gain control of it as well. Very often, we think in standards, and then we dwell on the underlying attitude. For my part, I have very often – I’m not a boatmaster, but I love people who drive southern yachtsmen with the Marna engine who say took-dok – in Blindleia, I have witnessed people who dispose of their boat a) reasonable b) very reasonable and c) behave like they drive a car in the wrong way on water – to say it that way. They would certainly have driven the car completely wrong, and then they behaved with the boat as if they were driving a car on the water. What happens then is that they really don't have respect for the elements. I've learned that those who don't respect the elements are basically acting like it's not the water they're in. So we know that we have a break here: in some parts of our country, people still have deep respect for water, for sea, for sea. It grieved, for example. because we had an incredible number of lives when the speedboat "Sleipner" went down a few years ago. The boats that mountained very many, were not built to take on people, but those who mastered these supply boats and the other boats, knew what the elements were, knew what the sea was. So they're the equivalent. So the question is, how can we wisely bring this coastal culture into the recreational culture and ensure that the good recreational culture affects the other? I choose to keep the post this way because the Council of State has said in a very many ways that you have to find wise processes to make sure that people get it -- we'll call it -- the wit that can't be commanded into the head of anyone else, but that should be there anyway. With these words I signal that the Left is also open to various measures to prevent all kinds of accidents at sea, but we are also pragmatic and see what measures are successful. We would like the measures to be targeted so that we do not launch a general and large apparatus and then do not hit where we are going to hit. Therefore, these small words at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e502	I would like to thank you for a fine debate without much controversy. As the representative Heggø put it, this is not to make it difficult for people. For people who have been boating for years, you have to be able to assess a good transition. That's not the point. The point is to make it safe for people, to make people aware of safety at sea, and that we must have respect for the sea, and for people and each other. Putting this topic on the agenda, I think, is important, because it makes it visible that the Storting actually is following developments, both at sea and elsewhere, and that the Government is taking responsibility for it. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has such an open approach to the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e511	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e517	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e824	There will be a vote on proposals from the Progress Party, transmitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 15 May 2007 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 60)]] ‘The Council asks the Government to examine and promote the necessary proposals leading Norway to pursue an asylum policy in the future where strict interpretation of the Refugee Convention and other international conventions is required by Norway, so that the current system of humanitarian stay is eliminated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e1126	In Case No: 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22.ana.ud945e1181	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word in accordance with §37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
