ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e45	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Day Terje Andersen Councillor Heidi Grande Røsstaatsråde Terje Riis-Johansen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – Before we start with the first main question, the president finds reason to remember two things. One is that the issues should lie within the areas of responsibility of the Councils. It is, of course, up to the state councils to choose whether or not to respond, but it is an advantage that the questions lie within their areas of responsibility. In addition, additional issues should follow up the main issue in order to increase the flow of the debate. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e66	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. After two years we have to note that the promised active industrial policy has become an unpredictable and activistic policy, which neither creates jobs nor creates economic values. Good framework conditions for strategic industries have not been seen, nor have we seen anything on the contrary. Ownership policy has become immature. It started with the replacement of the Governor of Statoil in 2006, where the Prime Minister finally dropped his own candidate after insurrection in the government parties and after strong pressure from the LO. The state appears unpredictable when the state-owned companies convert, such as Telenor and Hydro, in connection with the sale of the Information in 1881, the sale of Telenor Satellite Services and the sale of Hydro Polymers. Conversions are systematically accompanied by government intervention requirements and requirements for the termination of management in state-owned enterprises by the government parties. Then we have Hydro, where the Minister of Industry appointed director Reinås – in violation of all the rules of the game. It happened as a result of the media press, not as a result of the substance of the matter, as the ministry knew in advance. Some leaders of state-owned companies have been exposed to bullying campaigns from government parties over several years. The status is that two of our largest state-owned companies do not have a elected chairman, and that three board representatives in Hydro do not re-elect in protest against the government's ownership policy. The Prime Minister makes a relatively incomprehensible statement that top leaders are elected, as if they were working in the LO. It's been hard to recruit good people to the government. The world's largest fund manager, Fidelity, criticises in letter form the government's handling of the Reinås case and believes that it could damage the values of Norsk Hydro. Oslo Børs has several times warned that we have got the stock discount back on state-owned companies as a result of a lack of trust in the state's ownership. This mess goes beyond businesses, across the business world in general and beyond the Norwegian people who own them. What will the Minister of Industry do to restore confidence in the state that owns Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e79	There were many incredible claims here. Let me start with the first, about uncertainty about value creation and jobs in Norway. When we look at the results, to the extent that one can take credit, or the blame, for that on the part of the Government, for the labour market in Norway, the situation is more favourable than it has been in 20 years. It's been 20 years since we had as low leave as we have now. Record high results are reported in Norwegian business, and there is a strong demand for additional employees. So the results are good. So I choose, despite many premises for the question, to go to the conclusion of the representative Hansen, where he asks what we will do to restore confidence in the state ownership of the leased companies. That trust is present, and ownership is more transparent and predictable than ever before, by the government having submitted a statement of ownership in which we clearly say how we will behave as owners of state companies, and also say how we want to develop the individual company. So ownership is more pronounced and more predictable than ever. When the representative Hansen refers to the development of stock exchanges and speculations that his party traps and others who are against active ownership appear in the media, the actual development shows that what Hansen says is wrong. In the case of Hydro, which was used as an example, the proportion of non-resident owners at the beginning of the year was 38 pst. Before the mentioned turmoil in Hydro this summer, it was down to 36 p.m., but today it's up to 41 p.m. So that's how foreign investors see companies in which the state is a partner, as a good, safe, predictable investment object.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e90	I think you can pick up a randomly chosen newspaper from any week in the last two years and find that business does not perceive this ownership policy either as neat or as predictable. Let me do a concrete thing. StatoilHydro is an international giant enterprise which is in the midst of a demanding merger process. The company must have a well-functioning board of directors and a qualified board of directors, and the government has now designated the board of directors as an area of active ownership. In the book of former LO leader Gerd-Liv Valla, it is well documented how this active ownership works. It turns out that the Prime Minister had to leave after a lot of pressure several days before Odjell, Valla promised to do something about the matter. Many people are therefore uncertain whether what is now happening is the appointment of a candidate who is primarily responsible for ensuring political interests over the needs of the enterprise. The government has already made one fathead around the appointment of Governor of Statoil, and there shouldn't be another. Can the Council of State say a little about the government's adding up to this? And will LO be consulted on this kind of question?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e99	I allow myself to say that when I now hear the mixture of matters that the representative contributes to, I understand that someone needs to ask about ownership, because when it comes to StatoilHydro and the current situation with regard to the director of StatoilHydro, it has nothing to do with state ownership in StatoilHydro or in Hydro. As the representative should be aware, there is a situation related to agreements with Libya from the time Saga concluded the agreements and a question about Hydro's management of those agreements after Hydro took over Saga, which is the background to StatoilHydro's manager leaving. It has nothing to do with the other matters that the representative is involved here. I think we should have such great respect for what the former director of the board did, when he himself justifies the departure of problems with the double role by sitting as the group head of Hydro, who investigates the matter, and as the director of StatoilHydro, who investigates the matter, that we respect that that is the background for him to resign. Of course, a new Chairman will be elected on a proposal from the Electoral Committee and at the company meeting elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e106	There will be follow-up questions – first Børge Burnde.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e109	It's true, as the Minister of Industry says, that there are very good times in Norwegian business. Now the government also came to the deck table in that way. But even in good times, the Minister of Industry, who manages a large ownership, is in fact 40 pst. by the values of Oslo Børs, to act neatly. The fact that there is at all a debate and questions are asked in the Stortinge by whether one behaves neatly says that there has been uncertainty about ownership policy. It is such that Jan Reinås, former director of Hydro, was told this summer by the Minister of Industry that he should leave the job. Why would he do that? Well, because he had done something in Hydro that the Minister of Industry had been informed in a month and a half in advance. Doesn't the Minister of Economic Affairs see that it was setting up for blacksmiths?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e116	The fact that someone wants to create confusion about state ownership is no evidence that it is – it's part of the political debate. To a specific situation, related to Hydro and the so-called option case in summer. I am glad that this was brought on track, because it has attached itself to an impression, as the representative now suggests, that the state was informed about and had accepted what was adopted in July. It is true that in June we were informed that Hydro had plans to terminate the option agreements. June 21st, we were informed about that. At the same time, it was announced by our people who had the meeting that when one was going to conclude those agreements, which we obviously were not against – the government is opposed to option agreements, and of course is not against the termination of the option agreements – it had to be done in an economic way, only within the framework strictly necessary. At the time we were informed, it was 23-24 million. kr for the option agreement of the group manager. It should therefore be lacking that the State as one of the owners did not react when the decision in July actually ended at 28 million. kr. In addition, it was stated in that meeting that there were also reactions to the development of the group manager’s remuneration, which has been followed up in retrospect, in line with the signals given.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e124	The President must remember the speaking time. Kåre Fostervold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e129	The Minister of Economic Affairs’ exercise of ownership in Norwegian companies has sometimes resembled what is seen in football. There are some owners who try to overdo the coach in terms of team withdrawal or playing style, and when the coach does not accept this involvement, the coach is kicked out in public. There is no doubt that the Government has a different ownership exercise than that described in the ownership message. At the same time, it may appear that the State Council's party traps on Stortinget have not read the ownership message. It is important to give Norwegian companies predictable framework conditions, and it is important to give the financial market confidence in predictability when the State is such a significant player on the stock exchange. So I wonder if the Council of State thinks he handled the famous option case in a good way, or – to say what it sounds like today – in an excellent way? Or does the Council of State think that the matter could have been dealt with in a better way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e136	First, let me say that ownership is fully exercised in line with what is said in the ownership message. That's where predictability lies. It has, for example, never from me as a representative of the owners of the companies in which the NHD is the Ministry of Ownership, at any time neither signaled via the media nor criticised decisions via the media. This is done in direct contact with the controllers concerned — in the continuous contact — to the extent that one wishes to give some signals. I'm still going to pay attention to that. Whether it has been a good or – what was it the representative said – exemplary handling? What I have to say is that there has been a proper handling in relation to the fact that, as early as 21 June, we announced – and emphasised what was already known – our position on options, and that winding-up thus had to be done as reasonably as possible. After that, concessions were granted to the option holders, as it did, among other things. was referred to in the report of the BA-HR law firm, which demonstrated that those signals had not been followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e143	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e146	I want to take a different approach to the problem. Keeping what is promised is one of the most important commitments for both state and private companies. The establishment of a new industrial power regime was one of the clearest promises made by the government during the 2005 election campaign. If they just got in position, it would be "a piece of cake" to get this in place in a short time. Then they get in position, and nothing happens. Was not just a point in forming a plural government that one could hold what was promised, and make decisions where one thought it was important? So my question to the Council of State is this: does the Minister of Industry worry that a new industrial power regime is not yet in place? Will the Minister of Industry, literally, sit down with the Minister of Oil and Energy until such a regime is in place, or has he actually given up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e155	Questions related to the industry's access to power engage me, I think that's right to say. With regard to the question from the representative Sørfonn whether I want to put on the oil and energy minister, I guess I don't think that's the most effective procedure. But what I can assure you is that the newly appointed oil and energy minister and I have already had conversations with, among other things. Norwegian industry on this theme in the extension of the work undertaken by the previous Minister of Energy. Work is now under way to find solutions for future industrial safety in close cooperation with the industry concerned. I know that the current oil and energy minister seized that matter as one of the very first things she did after she took over that department. I can assure the representative Sørfonn that, based on the interests of the industry, I will participate in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e162	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e165	There is no doubt that the government’s management of state ownership — or perhaps rather a lack of handling — has had several unfortunate consequences in the last year. Sometimes a person may ask himself if it is the government that manages ownership. According to Gerd-Liv Valla's book, which came out on Monday, it was such that the Prime Minister wanted Odfjell to become a new governor in Statoil, but that the same Valla decided that it should not be. In any case, the consequences of the government’s management of ownership have had the side effect that the values of the listed companies in which the State is a majority shareholder have fallen. Now it can be said that state ownership itself is a limiting factor for a company's value, but here we've got a sort of red-green discount in the values of the companies. Can the Council of State estimate to the Council how great an impairment we could have avoided if there had not been an ongoing internal conflict in the Government on state ownership, which again gives rise to a haphazard signal of control?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e174	First, there is no internal conflict within the Government on state ownership. There is a broad outreach of the ownership policy I presented in the form of the ownership message. It's impossible to estimate impairment when the actual ratio is that we've had an increase in value. It is wrong what the representative Kongshaug says, that the companies that have State ownership have lost in value after the red-green government took over. Instead, I documented, with Hydro as an example, that capitalization has been positive. The foreign involvement of the companies has actually increased. Therefore, the whole question rests on the wrong premise. It is that through the ownership message we have said clearly what we want with ownership in general, and what we want with ownership especially with respect to each company. That's exactly what we've been saying. I also presented the ownership document on the stock exchange. I didn't notice any tremors that day. But I can assure the representative of Kongshaug that the companies to which the State is a partner are developing positively in terms of performance and in terms of stock exchange development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e183	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e186	I have questions for the Minister of Industry. The state is a very large owner in very many Norwegian companies. It is a ownership managed by the Government and the Council of State on behalf of the Norwegian people. As mentioned earlier, the ownership message was dealt with in ours. The government and to the extent that the Storting focused on, inter alia: the ethics and morals of companies. It's possible we should focus more on the government's ethics and morals in the exercise of ownership. But one of the companies that was treated at that time was the airline SAS Braathens. Recently, SAS Braathens was convicted of industrial espionage against its only competitor in Norway on domestic flights, namely Norwegian. This does SAS Braathens to secure benefits, and to try to get back what the monopoly SAS had earlier. When SAS was the sole adviser on flying in Norway, there were sky-high fares and poor air services, and they had a monopoly on what they were doing. In the light of the statement of ownership of ethics and morals — does the Council of State seem to be able to be a partner in a company convicted of industrial espionage?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e200	I think at least we have to take the right starting point, which is actually that this case is appealed and comes up to the Supreme Court. This means that this is a matter that is still being dealt with in the judicial system. Then it is early for me to conclude with what is the final verdict in the case – to take it first. Secondly, I am pleased with the competition that also exists on the domestic aviation market. Of course, we are concerned that ethics should be followed up, including not to engage in industrial espionage, and then the legal system should decide whether that is what has happened. But if the question is whether I think we should sell the share we have in SAS, I definitely don't mean it – perhaps especially for reasons such as: the part of the country from which the representative of Korsberg is himself. There is no doubt that SAS as a company has had an enormous impact on our very widespread and diverse airport network in Norway, which is a crucial factor in the ability of the whole country to communicate quickly. In this context, SAS has been an important company. There is a lot of reason why the state is a partner in SAS, and that is how we want it to continue – of course within all ethical guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e209	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree that SAS has been an important airline, but that is no longer the case. There are very many airlines that can fly on both North Norway and Western – and other routes – if they get the chance. I also remember when SAS had a monopoly on flying in North Norway. Then it was really sky-high ticket prices. But when the Council of State does not want to answer concretely, I can ask the question of a more fundamental nature: if SAS or another company is convicted, and that is a judgment of law, does the Council of State find it problematic to be co-owners? It has been signaled that both the Danish and Swedish states want and plan to sell themselves out of SAS. They no longer see any reason to be the partner of an airline. I can therefore rely on the following question: If the Swedish and Danish sell out, will the government reconsider a sale, a sale of SAS?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e220	If it's allowed to say something about experience as a normal consumer, there's no doubt that multiple companies are operating, that prices are different than if only one company is operating. On the other hand, there are still many unprofitable routes in Norway today, where SAS, and, for that matter, Recreation as part of the same group, is a crucial factor in the actual presence of important communities in Norway. That's at least we're concerned with continuing. So to a hypothetical question. I must, however, take into account the realities that exist. The Norwegian Government is in good contact with the Swedish and Danish Governments, and it has always been the agreement on all matters relating to our joint ownership of SAS as an airline. And there has been no information to us that the Danish or Swedish authorities are currently planning to get rid of the public share of ownership in SAS. On the contrary, we have a good dialogue on how we as owners can help SAS develop positively in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e229	Kåre Fostervold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e232	Let's go on with ethics and morality. Governments have put great emphasis on ethics and morals in the ownership message, and the Minister of Finance does the same with regard to the management of our foreign wealth. What the Council of State and its colleagues have not fully focused on is the ethical exercise in government administration. The National Audit Office has again made strong criticisms of the ministries and the breach of public procurement law by state enterprises. The National Audit Office stresses that there are many breaches, and it is clear that the Government has not focused on compliance with this legislation. The result is that many companies are not able to enter that market and that the central administration becomes unnecessary animals. Will the Minister of Industry, responsible for the business environment, take responsibility for strengthening the use of public law and for highlighting the seriousness of breaches of procurement rules? Will the Council of State impose equally stringent requirements on the ministries' compliance with the laws and regulations which he imposes on listed companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e241	The President will recall what he said at the opening of the meeting, that the supplementary question should be a follow-up to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e244	The question is ethics and morality, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e249	I must be allowed to recall what the President said at the beginning of the meeting in relation to which department is responsible for which areas. Now it is actually the case that the State Council responsible for public procurement is present, and then I think it might be something special if I have to answer that. But I can say that with regard to the purchases for which my department is responsible, we should of course base the ethical guidelines on our procurement policy, which the representative is asking for. I consider it a matter of course to follow up the comments of the National Audit Office on that point, but the general procurement policy is therefore below the Minister of Renewal, who is present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e256	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e259	In its question, the Progress Party addresses an important issue related to the country’s ownership policy, namely the risk of a mix of roles and the risk of the country being linked to activities that do not exactly give a good reputation to the outside world. The representative of Korsberg took up the situation in SAS. This issue can also easily be transferred to ownership in other enterprises, such as the United Kingdom. StatoilHydro, and companies operating in a field where competition is important and where corruption can also occur. We've seen more examples of that. The State must ensure healthy competition, and the State must be a very clear player in relation to corruption. We also have a situation in which Telenor operates in Eastern Europe and is charged with over-linking with the Norwegian state as a nation. Does the Council not see that in many cases there would be an advantage to a clearer distinction between store and policy, a clearer distinction between the tasks of the state and those of companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e272	I think that's a good question. It's a situation that we in the Government are very concerned about, namely, distinguishing between what are ownership issues, and what are, for example, what are ownership issues. are management issues. It's important to separate those roles. But that is precisely why I think it is important that when we deal with ownership issues, as we then make clear through a separate notice of ownership and ownership document, we, as owners, expect what the authorities expect from all Norwegian companies when they act abroad – to avoid corruption and other unfortunate relationships linked to ethics. We think it is obvious that the companies in which the State is one of the owners should be parent companies in that area. There I agree with the representative Hansen's problem, but I do not think that the companies would improve their behaviour abroad by not having significant state ownership. I think, on the contrary, that it is an advantage when they are going internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e278	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e281	I assume that it is the duty of any Norwegian citizen and the duty of any Council of State to comply with the fight against crime and to ensure that corruption does not occur. On that basis, I would like to follow up on the first question, because I feel that it is related to possible situations related to what is called ‘good governance’, ‘corporate responsibility’, etc. My question relates to a debate we have had in the main hall several times, not later than a week ago, namely the situation of alerts. In Norwegian they are usually called witnesses, but in closed systems they are called alerts. State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen concluded a week ago that it was a special state responsibility to have a culture that alerts should feel good when they say they are from. We have had shocking examples that many have felt that alerting was one of the most alarming things they did, even if they got it right. Does the Council of State see it as its responsibility to exercise ownership, directly or indirectly, to have such a culture and tone that alerts feel like witnesses and not as sluggard anchors?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e288	The answer to the question is yes. I believe that a significant contribution from us as owners is to put anti-corruption on the agenda, to have ethical rules and to demand that companies design ethical rules. It helps to put the type of questions raised by the representative on the agenda of each company. It will help to make it easier for subordinates to follow the guidelines and – fortunately – to put on the load it can sometimes feel like, to do what is right and not just what is convenient. So the answer to the question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e293	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e296	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. The Christian People's Party is busy having an industrial policy for the whole human being. It is in line with modern philosophy of leadership to ensure a good balance between work and leisure, time for family and friends, and to be able to enjoy fresh air and beautiful nature. Thus we will provide self-employed good social security schemes in cooperation with pregnancy and childbirth, and we will expand the paper commission. Nevertheless, taxes and charges are a significant premise of healthy and emerging business. In the new tax model introduced in the previous period, industry accepted dividend taxes against a tapering down of wealth taxes. This was in practice a social contract. He's not met. It worries us in the Christian People's Party. It is a practical solution that can gain broad support and can eliminate the tax on working capital. Another factor is that today's inheritance tax simply prevents a reasonable generation change in many family businesses. The Christian People's Party will remove the inheritance fee when the next generation operates the family business for at least ten years. We think it's long-term thinking, and it's going to be premiered instead of being punished. I have previously asked the Minister of Industry about both property taxes on working capital and inheritance taxes. I've got quite a positive answer, so I've been a little optimistic. But it doesn't help when the government once again puts forward a government budget without doing anything about either property tax or inheritance tax. The question is, why is this not followed up? Are not suggestions of interest to the Minister for Industry? Or is it simply so that he has not received a pass in the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e309	Of course, the entire government is behind the state budget as it stands. It's not quite right, as the representative says, that nothing has been done about these tax types. The bottom deduction has increased, and it has a rather large distributive significance in terms of e.g.: taxes on wealth. So the wealth tax is one of the types of tax that most clearly meets our objective of a fair distribution policy. The assets in Norway are very unevenly distributed. So, even though many may not be able to see high incomes in today's equation tables — to put it that way — the wealth tax is very good for those who have a lot to contribute to society and who should contribute. Now it is not the case that this government has promised – and neither did the representative, but he suggested it initially – a social contract that eliminates the wealth tax. None of the parties that are now in government have promised to eliminate the property tax. We're going to keep that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e318	Then we're at the core of my question. If one is to trust that the authorities are prudent, it may not be that one ignores the agreements previously concluded. We actually had a social contract. The economy accepted the exchange of dividend taxes for a reduction in property taxes. I realize that this government will not pass on the scheme that the previous government had – we said a halve during 2007, with a view to final liquidation. Another way to do this is to remove the property tax on working capital, which nevertheless shows that an agreement is being taken seriously. So you solve this and you get a win-win situation. When it comes to inheritance taxes, which the Council of State did not comment on, it is a glittering suggestion that I promise that in the Christian People's Party we will not surrender until it is introduced. It prevents abuse, and it promotes help for generational change in family businesses. There's something that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e329	Then we might be at the point where the representative thought that previous answers from me in Stortinget had made him optimistic. We are working on issues related to the transition from existing to new ownership in enterprises, not least in small and medium-sized enterprises. I have responded positively to that earlier. We are concerned about the situation during the transitional period. But we have not, within the budgetary framework we have now laid down, and within the commitment we have taken on, that the level of taxation should be the same as in 2004, chosen to give priority to property taxes, for example. what I said instead, to give increased deductions, in order to reach the groups most in need of relief in terms of redistribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e336	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell Arvid Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e339	I am pleased that the Council of State is busy and working on the issues relating to the SME system. This applies in particular to the conditions of the family business. The system we have today means that you have to pay property taxes even if the company goes out of business, and it drains equity and what's built up. I have a concrete example from my own municipality, where three young people in the 20s and 30s lost their father. This was a family business, and with today's tax system and regime they had to borrow between 12 and 15 million. NOK to keep the company in the municipality. Does this impress the Council of State? Does he intend to do anything about the situation? Are the Councils comfortable with the situation? Can we wait for a result of the work being done?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e346	First of all, let me say that, as regards the general conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises — and many of them are personalised companies — there are proposals for improvements in the form of birth permits, in the state budget now presented. In the case of the example from the municipality, it is difficult to relate to the burden of a need for a loan of between 12 and 15 million. kr is, without knowing the value of the company that is actually being acquired. It is difficult to comment on the type of individual matter with such limited background information. What we're concerned about is that good industrial enterprises should be able to move forward by the next generation, and the development of today's business life suggests that the situation for that part of business is actually very good, with the economic results and with the activity we see around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e354	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e357	In Norway, taxes and taxes have been tightened in recent years, while our neighbouring countries have been moving in the opposite direction. In Sweden, the tax on wealth is now being abolished, while in Norway we are tightening up the taxes on wealth, especially on working capital. This means that Norwegian owners have to deduct capital from companies in order to pay taxes on wealth, while Swedish owners do not have to deduct capital from companies in order to pay taxes on wealth. So this means that companies that are eighted by the Nordics are going to lose capital on a much larger scale than enterprises that are eighted by foreigners. And when businesses are lost for capital, they'll of course be poorer equipped to meet difficult times. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think that this development is unproblematic, or does he think it is problematic that companies which are eighted by the Nordics are being lost for capital in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e364	The representative is based in Sweden. Even in a country as close as Sweden, there are significant differences between us in the business taxation systems. I assume that the representative is aware that there is a different level of employer’s fee in Sweden. So we have a higher level of wealth taxation. There are some differences in the system, but this does not mean that the total cost of food taxation in Norway is unfavourable — on the contrary. Norway is currently a very favourable country to operate in. For my part, I would like to say that I would be concerned about raising the employer's fees to the level they have in Sweden. So if you're suggesting that you copy the Swedish tax system, you have to include all the elements in the tax system – and I think today's business tax in Norway is completely competitive with the Swedish.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e372	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e375	This debate is not about wealth, it is about jobs. The government chooses to punish private ownership in the companies. It affects family-owned hotels. It affects family-owned small and medium-sized enterprises throughout Norway. On the other hand, the Government chooses to set up a government fund to invest in business. That leads me to the question: Is it so that the Government believes that state capital is better than private capital? On the one hand, when families are joint owners or owners of enterprises, they increase the tax and punish the private capital. On the other hand, the Government has clearly come to the conclusion that there is too little capital in the market, and therefore a government fund is set up to invest in business. Is it so that the red-green government views state capital as better than private capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e384	No, but we believe that state and private capital can work well together. In the case of the proposed fund which is intended to invest in newly established enterprises at an early stage, it can best be compared with SND Invest, which, unfortunately, was sold by the previous government. Norway is in a unique position internationally. We are because in Norway the state has a lot of capital – the old ideologies on which both the Right and, for that matter, the Workers' Party rest, are built on the basis that we did not actually have a rich but a poor state. This brings Norway into a completely new situation, and I would like to invite the Right to participate in a discussion: how can we jointly use the opportunity offered by state capital, together with private and foreign capital, to invest in the business that will carry the welfare society as of the day of the oil age? That was the debate we should be taking, and it is not about taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e393	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e396	I'd like to take the challenge that State Council Andersen is now giving. State and private ownership can work well together. Then it is important that the balance is good. State councillor Andersen has been Norway's champion in contributing to state ownership, through the focus on state ownership and the extent of state ownership, and not least by talking about state ownership, while private ownership has received much less attention. State ownership is growing. We also see foreign private ownership growing in Norway. Last night's media image had a large amount of this. It is good in itself, but then it is important, in this balance between state and private, that private Norwegian ownership also receive attention, good framework and good policy. The state budget presented shows the opposite. It makes it more expensive to own Norwegian businesses, through changes in the tax on wealth. I do not ask the Council of State to distance itself from its own budget – until it is too professional – but I simply ask: What can private Norwegian ownership expect from the future of positive, important signals from a Council of State that will have a balance between the different forms of ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e405	The private owners can expect a predictable state that owns those companies where we are big. That's why we have submitted the ownership message, where we clearly express what is the profile of the state's ownership. One can also expect that the State instrument contributes to the development of nutrition in Norway. This applies, for example: research, where there has been a significant increase every year after this government took over – and I do not say that in contrast to the representative Sponheim, who is also involved in research. It's an important area in the future. Then we have tools through Innovation Norway. We have doubled our efforts in relation to, for example: travel life. All instruments of that type shall be support functions in relation to private capital. With regard to the fund mentioned by the previous representative, we have put a limit on the fact that it can hold up to 49 pst. by e.g. companies that are in what I'm sure the representative Sponheim knows as the concept, i.e. the bloodbath phase, the difficult restart phase. I guess that's just an example of government and private capital together. It is an offer of private capital to have state capital alongside it in order to contribute to the realisation and industrialisation of good ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e412	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e415	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. There are dramatic changes in international agricultural and food policy. Biofuels are increasingly needed, and climate change is leading to natural disasters such as drought and flooding. Changes in behaviour patterns and improved living standards in large countries such as China and India make us face a possible global food crisis, with food shortages and significant increases in world market prices. The OECD estimates in a report that world food prices will rise by between 20 and 50 pst. the coming decade, and that rising prices of basic products such as cereals and flour can lead to social unrest and political problems. There are many examples. Wheat prices on the world market have risen by 50 pst. in a short time. The world's grain stocks are limited to 50 days' consumption. That's the smallest reserve the world's ever seen in at least 100 years, when we ignore the two world wars. Milk prices in Europe have risen by between 80 and 90 pst. this year, and the price of eggs is expected to rise by 50-60 pst. in Australia in the fall. In Ethiopia, meat prices have risen by 50 pst. the last year, and in addition, the sharp increase in demand for meat in China and India, as mentioned at the outset. It goes without saying that when demand increases in two countries that make up almost 40pst. by the population of the earth, the consequences become dramatic. This is a development that will also have a significant impact on Norway and Norwegian agricultural policy. What is the approach of the Minister of Agriculture and the Government to meet these national and international challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e427	I want to commend the representative, Kongshaug, for addressing an important and general question. It's quite obvious that the reality description that the representative here is taking up is part of what we're seeing around us, and I think there's definitely a need to think about what we're seeing now. We have had a situation in the international food markets and in international food production that has gone more or less in one direction since – I had almost said – the prairie was cultivated in the United States 150 years ago, while what is now happening, with the exception of some shifts around the oil crisis in the 1970s and also a little in the 1990s, is a break with a trend that has lasted a long time. Of course, we don't know what's going on, but what the representative deals with around climate change and around increased demand are obvious factors that indicate that we're getting a different situation internationally. It is a reality that the production of e.g. cereals are higher than ever, so it's demand that makes us, for example, a lot of people. in the cereals sector, the situation we now have. I believe that this reveals that the issue of Norwegian policy and changes in Norway is about the importance of taking care of the cultivated land, i.e. we now see that cultivated land in Norway is a resource that needs to be used to produce food. In addition, we need to pursue an agricultural policy that enables us to exploit the opportunities to produce food in Norway in an environmental way in areas of the country that may have been less focused up to now. Conducting a consistent agricultural policy that contributes to a high level of Norwegian food production, I believe, is the best contribution in relation to the international situation we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e436	There is no doubt that increased demand for food and new applications for products that have traditionally been used exclusively for food, such as food. corn, which is now increasingly used to make bioethanol for American cars, also alters the assumptions for the current WTO negotiations. It will be necessary for most nations to reposition themselves. From yesterday's edition of the Nations, we see that the leader of the joint purchase AGRI, Steinar Dvergsdal, believes that the situation needs to be exploited to increase food prices. Does the Council of State agree, or does the Council of State see that it will be possible for Norway to maintain effective import protection at a much lower tariff level, at increasing world market prices, given that Dvergsdal’s strategy is not being followed? And, will the Council of State involve Stortinget in such a repositioning of the Norwegian interests in WTO negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e443	Here are several questions that will be addressed. With regard to what is happening around the WTO, the situation is that we are now in a phase in which the negotiations have been attempted to intensify. There have been negotiations this summer at technical level. We have tried to take individual elements further into the process. Then it has been suggested that there should be a political process during the autumn related to the further progress in slightly larger areas. If we succeed, we don't know, but it's in everyone's interest that a person tries to move forward before it approaches presidential elections in the United States. That is the situation now in relation to the WTO. With regard to the Norwegian debate on food prices, the representative Kongshaug is well aware that the agricultural negotiations, which take place once a year, are the venue for that type of discussion. Of course, we should come back to these issues in connection with the agricultural settlement for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e452	There will be follow-up questions – first Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e455	I believe that increasing world market prices must bring new dynamism into the WTO negotiations, because it is possible to maintain import protection at lower rates than would be the case with lower world market prices. So I'm absolutely sure there's going to be a process around. What my question is going to go on, as a follow-up to this, is that, at my discretion, this situation creates a basis for optimism in the future. The fact that the world needs food, and prices reflect it, must also provide opportunities to reduce the differences between Norwegian agricultural policy and international agricultural policy. That's why I was surprised when I got today's nation in my hands today. I had to start by looking at the year, to see if this was something old that someone had added to me to keep fun with me – it happens! But it was from today. Financial spokesman for the government's own party here in the house goes out and says it's the worst crisis in agriculture in 40 years. I see investment and professionalization in agriculture rusted for a new time. And the representative says that ‘there is a deliberate abandonment of Norwegian farming and family farms’. Are the Councils of State a part of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e462	I think we're going to be honest and say that the incomes that we had in agriculture over the last ten years until we took over, 2.75 pst. in average income trends, has created a situation with significant challenges and expectations in the agricultural industry. So I believe that what we've done in the last two years in the agricultural business shows that we're in a different path, in a different direction, which provides a basis for optimism. I believe – to go further than the entrance to the representative Sponheim’s question – that the opportunities now on the market, both nationally and by seeing a change in the price picture abroad, give rise to optimism for Norwegian agriculture and food production in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e467	Kåre Fostervold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e470	In view of the global signals of food failure and increased food prices, it appears against its intention to continue the use of production restrictions in Norway. In such a world market, we should do what the Progress Party has been calling for every year: to remove the production restrictions that prevent Norwegian farmers from drawing more of their income from the market. Today's agricultural policy, loved by this government, is probably the biggest single factor that makes people run the countryside. Could it be in the light of the new global food situation that the Council of State has come up with new ideas on Norwegian agricultural policy? With a more offensive attitude towards agriculture and the individual farmer, where the production potential of the uses is fully exploited, the Progress Party considers that the need for passive support schemes for agriculture becomes superfluous. Will the Council of State remove the production restrictions to which many farmers are subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e475	If there's something that we're seeing now, at least it shows, it's that the Progress Party is wrong. The proposals that the Progress Party has promoted in agricultural policy are wrong medicine in the situation we are in. I do not know whether the Progress Party continues to deny climate change and what is happening around us in that area, but it is obvious that what is happening on the environmental side is an essential factor for the food situation in the world in the future. So what we don't need is the Progress Party's proposal to cut DKK 5 billion on the state budget in transfers to agriculture in Norway, which would lead to a dramatic reduction in food production and a reduced contribution to the challenges that it seems like the Storting is gathering that we are looking out, and that would lead us to take less responsibility for the situation that Fostervold is taking up here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e480	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e483	Only this year, some 650 farmers have sold their milk quota. The abandonment of dairy farming continues at a reinforced pace under the regime of the red-green government. The government has also weakened the ability of farmers to obtain additional income from additional industries such as: small-scale power plants. In the nations today, as has been pointed out earlier, Per Olaf Lundtigen claims that the situation for Norwegian farmers is «as bad today as in the 1960s». He is ‘not satisfied’ with what his government has accomplished now. Lundtigen further claims that it “must come a clear message from the government that they want the farmers well”. In the right, it is high time to think about something new, and that there is an urgent need to put in place an agricultural policy that provides farmers with lost opportunities. Does the Council now see that agricultural policy needs to be reformed and that farmers who want to invest in a future in Norwegian agriculture need to be given greater freedom and ability to operate more efficiently than it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e493	I find it interesting that the representative Røbekk Nørve now uses what has happened for the last one to two years, as an argument that the Right Solutions are working, and that the solutions of this government are not working. It is not that Norwegian farmers change the investment strategy from lunch to dinner in one day. It's not like we're looking at the changes in the countryside in a – two months – half a year. What we now see from investment decisions in the countryside is the result of assessments by the individual farmer over a very many years. It was probably a scientist who thought that the consequences of the policy that the government is now pursuing will not be seen until ten years from now. I'm not going to say that it takes so long, but that there is a long-term outlook that characterizes the agricultural industry, is obvious. So I might think that the representative from the Right should take responsibility to the extent that one believes that there are things that are not good enough, for example. the number of farmers selling allowances is higher than one wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e500	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e503	Agriculture has our backbones in business and bustling in our country over time. Agriculture itself is still the lifeblood of the districts and the central actor when it comes to caring for the cultural landscape. But agriculture is not screened for change, and there is still increasing international competition and a demanding market. Also in Switzerland, which is our closest ally in the WTO negotiations and in EFTA, there are changes. In the summer, Switzerland carried out an almost complete removal of the import protection for cheese in trade with the EU. What does the Minister of Agriculture think about this, and what consequences does he think it will have for Norway that our main partners in the trade negotiations on agricultural products will eliminate the protection of imports from the EU when it comes to cheese?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e508	With regard to the building of alliances and the countries with which we work towards the WTO, it is a challenge almost always to have different assessments by different countries on parts of the Agriculture Policy Council. I myself have been in Japan and Korea discussing WTO issues with my colleagues in those countries, and it is not that Norway and Korea or Norway and Japan, or for that matter Norway and Switzerland, have equal interests in the whole area. We have some common overall interests, and they focus primarily on the need to maintain an import protection in the future that is robust enough to take care of national agricultural policy as we know it. Then Switzerland has chosen, as the representative Sørfonn quite rightly says, to make changes in relation to cheese towards the EU. It's a choice they've made. I myself have had a meeting with my Swiss colleague on those issues, and there is nothing in the Swiss positions and the Swiss positions that suggests that Switzerland is moving away from the areas and positions we agree on in relation to the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e513	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e516	My question goes to the Minister of Renewal: In the 2008 state budget, it is proposed to cut substantially in broadband allocations. The reason is that broadband coverage is approaching 100 pst. This was claimed with a background in Teleplan’s 2007 coverage analysis. For the purposes of this report, a broadband band defines capacities above 640 kB. Yes, you can see a web TV from Stortinget, but you can't see NRK TV on the web, and you can't see TV 2 on the web. That's the definition of broadband from Teleplan. This is far from the 1500 kB that most internet providers today provide as a minimum, but it is clear that with such low requirements to define what is broadband, you can sunbathe in the shine of having achieved almost 100 pst. However, the question remains: is it that the Government defines 640 kB as a sufficient broadband for most people, and what is the real coverage and the need for additional means of development if the capacity and desire of suppliers are to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e521	It's a little special to call it a cut in broadband investment. The broadband investments for this government are just going to follow the government's promise, given in the Soria Moria statement, that we will have broadband coverage for all households before the end of this year. That's what we've allowed in relation to. Once we have consulting reports, one of which has examined the market, that tell us that with the promises we have, we have record 377 million. kr in current year, will come to that 99 pst. have access to fixed broadband – in addition, we have ICE, Netcom and Telenor’s deployment of mobile broadband – we have reached our target, but not exactly by New Year’s, because some operators need to spend a little longer time developing the broadband. So I've said that we've seen 30 million. kr for the next year just to have something in mind if we see that there are still some white spots. We know, among other things: that the capacity of the lines of Telenor has been a challenge for some places. It's solved by what you've had out on offer. But there's no doubt that this government has put a lot of effort into broadband, we're busy achieving this goal, and so we've just had the high-recorded licenses that we've had. When it comes to defining what's broadband, the Storting has done it for us in the previous period, with a wide majority, but where the Progress Party wasn't there. The progress point has to make its own definitions of broadband - they prefer to have a minimum standard. That's the surest way to make sure that a lot of people get a bad broadband over a long time. What the Storing has decided is to be able to upload and download live sound and images, i.e. a user-defined definition of broadband. I think that's what I'm doing, and the last government also laid the foundation for broadband expansion, but unlike the previous government, we're also using money from the public's side to get broadband.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e528	Firstly, the Progress Party was not part of the government last time. But it is absolutely right that we are busy getting higher capacity, and that is why we did not agree on the agreement either. I then record that for the Council of State it is that 640 kB is acceptable, and that you should be able to watch web TV from Stortinget, but that people should be able to get news on the NRK or TV 2, it is not that dangerous in the opinion of the Council of State. I also often see that there are press reports from the Council of State that there will be 100 pst. broadband coverage during 2007, and there is no doubt that the 100 pst requirement is not met. broadband coverage in 2007. Isn't it a little awkward for a government council not to be able to fulfill the promise of broadband to everyone, when you have even chosen to base a capacity that is much lower than what most think is a prerequisite for being able to call it a really good broadband?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e533	I also want to increase my capacity. But what's going to be the best recipe to make sure that a good part of us, especially we who live in the districts, get the lowest possible capacity and not adhere to the technological developments, is to set a minimum standard, because then we kind of put a list there. In 2004, 70 pst. by those who had broadband, the lowest capacity currently in the market. Now there are very few of us, only a few percent in this country, who have that capacity. ICE, Netcom, Telenor builds out the mobile broadband in the fall, so that what last year was 640 kB, will increase, maybe binoculars over 1 MB. It's amazing -- the technology is going so fast in this area that politicians are going to start setting a minimum standard when it comes to the number of kilobytes or what to download and what to upload, and not have a user definition, like a large majority in Stortinget actually did, when we never did. As I said, we've made money for broadband operators to build up. Some have warned that they will have to spend a few months out in 2008, but this government is working towards the goal that we have seen in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e538	There will be follow-up questions – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e541	It could have been interesting for Stortinget if one state council could respond to what they were asked about. In the main question raised by the representative Hoksrud, the question was: Is the Council satisfied that 640 kB can be characterised as broadband? Isn't it to trick people, municipalities and counties when you say you have a coverage rate of 99 pst, when you operate with broadband at 640 kB? When operating in Sweden with 2 MB to characterize it as broadband, when operating in some municipalities in Norway with a target of 10 MB to characterize it as broadband, this government operates with a standard of 640 kB, which is not forward-looking at all. Then I think it is fair and reasonable to demand an answer from the Council of State: is it simply the objective that broadband is 640 kB? Then the government didn't join the class.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e549	No, I and the government have never stated that 640 kB is the lower limit. It was the Teleplan that had as its starting point in its report. This is no way to trick people. There was a broad broadband debate in the Storting in 2004 where a particular definition, which the Progress Party chose not to be on, but as the previous government, and SV and the Labour Party, chose to support. There was a broad plurality among politicians, a wide debate in the Stortinget, hearings in the Committee, etc., and there is no way to trick people into taking on what the plural suggested. Then it's not that it's possible to upload or download images, or 640 kB, which was the starting point of Teleplan, is a silent target. On the contrary, as I said, in three years the capacity of the network, whether it is Telenor's copper network or not least the mobile network that now exists, has evolved dramatically. That capacity development continues because one gets more demand, more to use broadband. That's what we have to do to ensure that operators actually have the means and can stretch towards increasing capacity – not that we politically set a lower limit, because that's the best recipe that many get the lower limit – and finish it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e556	Øyvind Halleraker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e559	The broadband bet is largely administered through the Højkom programme, which was established by Bondevik II, and I and Right are pleased that the Council of State boasts of this in its draft budget and acknowledges the effects we have achieved. Høkom is a market-based demand driven system that has worked well. It was established as a competence base and advisory institution in particular towards government agencies and as an instrument for raising demand for Internet services. Developments in IT and broadband are taking place at a high pace. Requirements and opportunities are constantly evolving. Nevertheless, the Council of State writes in its draft budget that it aims to wind up the Høykom Secretariat. Central players in the industry such as ICT-Norway and Abelia strongly warn against this. What, then, is the rationale of the Council of State, and what might come instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e568	I just have to start by straightening out the representative Halleraker. It was Bondevik I who created the Høykom system. She's been working for nine years now. One has had three programming periods, every three years, so that's the right thing to say. As the Halleraker representative was in, this should be a competence base, and one should stimulate demand for broadband, not direct infrastructure construction. We have turned the system around and said that one should contribute to the direct construction of infrastructure, because it is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox In addition, we have had a small sum left to stimulate service development. From the beginning of the new year, we are setting up a new Directorate, the ICT Directorate, where the competence of broadband is just to be met for further questions about broadband. We've started an investigation into why not more than 60 pst. Well, you can connect to broadband, when it's almost 100 pst. which has the possibility of being associated. It is an important question to continue working on. Net neutrality is one thing. To continue to stimulate service development, we are catching up, both through the new Directorate and a three-year agreement we are now entering into with the KS, where one is just going to work on these questions. They're taken care of, but we choose to use the new directorate as a tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e577	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e580	State Council Grande Røys said in his answer to the main question that we have 99 pst. coverage. We have had consultations in the Committee where both Abelia and ICT Norway have been present, and at the ICT-Norway consultation they clearly stated that there will still be several large white spots in 2009. Then is the first part of my question: when one made these measurements, did one of them at municipal level, or did one of them at household level? So I just want to drill on the question from Halleraker in relation to Høykom and Høykom's important job in order to continue this. When we see that we still want white spots in 2009 as well, why put down Høykom, who has contributed so much to the good development we have already received in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e587	The measurement that Teleplan made for us in the spring was made at the municipal level, but it was a challenge for the municipalities to contact the inhabitants just to register so-called white spots. That measurement is as accurate as it could be, given the method described by Teleplan. That report is out, and I sent him, as soon as I got him on my table, to the whole committee. So the statements for what they measured are very clear there. But what we've seen is that of course, there are some people who fall outside, for example. because one has split lines, for example. from Telenor. We are very aware that there may still be some who will not be covered by what we have now seen in the work. So, as I said, I've seen a promise next year of 30 million. kr to also be able to catch them. Now, what we have to do is use this 377 million. kr. Operators report that this will take some time. Once we've used them, we have to take a new round and look at how far we've come, and who doesn't have broadband. And then we'll see if we need the 30 million, or if we're in the goal. But of course we're busy following closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e594	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e597	It is true, as the Council of State says, that it was Bondevik I who introduced the Høykom funds, with Lars Sponheim as IT minister. It has been a great success and is the reason why the Council of State can stand and boast of the good results here today. In connection with the state budget, the government council sent out a press release, writing that 98.3 p.m. of the population had broadband per Today, and that 99 pst. would have it by the end of the year. In an answer to a written question from me, the Council of State says that these figures are estimates. And that fits very well, because I am constantly getting feedback from individuals who do not feel the success that Grande Røys is boasting of here today. My home country, Akershus, got e.g. rejection of the application for state aid and the rejection states that: ‘The application for Akershus has been considered eligible, but with limited resources for allocation, the project is not allocated funds in this application round.’ Is the Council comfortable with this kind of lifting breach?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e609	No, and I don't see it as a breach of promises either. Left is the only party here on the Storting that actually cut into the broadband loop that we had last year, 20 million. kr, because they said we didn't need it. I think that's something special. We have a total of 30 million. kr for next year if we don't get into goal. But to nuance it: what I've been busy with all the way, when I say we have 99 pst. Which will get fixed broadband, is that we also have mobile networks that also provide broadband. I have also insisted that this house is being heavily built out, and that it provides a much more solid broadband and larger capacity. So we have to count everything when we're first counting. What we're seeing is that it's part of our inhabitants who don't realize that there are other providers than the one or the two they quickly come up with. Examining mobile providers may not be the case for so many people. Therefore, it is also an information job to find out that there are several providers. But we've given the permits, and we're going to keep following broadband developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e616	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e623	There will be a wide range of changes in the set list of questions, and the President here refers to the overview shared in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 3 and 4 from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Questions 8-16, from the representatives of Arne Sortevik, Borghild Tenden, Svein Roald Hansen, Ola T. Lånke, Dagfinn Sundsbø, Anne Margrethe Larsen, Finn Martin Vallersnes and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr to the Minister for Transport, are postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident. Question 17, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. The question will be answered by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Minister of Research and Higher Education, who has left. At the request of the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered in response to question 1, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 18, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Welfare who will direct him. Question 19, from the representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos to the Minister for Children and Gender, has been transferred to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2. Question 20, from the representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad to the Minister for Culture and the Church, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Finance, this question is moved and answered to the other questions of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e646	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘According to the Business Day on 25 August, the Council of State is in favour of a change in law that allows the publication of names of persons charged with 60 pst. additional taxes on the equation. Does the Council of State consider that regular equation treatment is an adequate background for such publication of several thousand taxpayers per year, and how far has the Council of State come to work on this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e653	The proposal for the publication of the names of taxpayers who have been subject to additional taxes came under a panel debate at a seminar on tax and accounting crime. The seminar was organized by Oslo Equations Office in August this year. The question of the introduction of such a scheme was one of several measures discussed in the light of the need to combat tax evasion among large business operators. During the panel debate, I stated that I would not rule out such publication being an effective measure to combat tax and tax crime. The tax morals of society depend to a large extent on our being able to reveal and limit several of the truly great distractions committed by large corporations and individuals in important societal positions. For such taxpayers, the loss of reputation of a public disclosure could be a consequence that seems more preventative than the risk of additional taxes being imposed in all silences. At the same time, I see that a measure like this raises fundamental counter-representations. In principle, the treatment by the tax administration of the equation of the individual taxpayer and the possible imposition of additional taxes are subject to strict professional secrecy. Therefore, a system of publication of additional taxes imposed of a certain size would require derogations from this general rule. Here, too, the importance of privacy will weigh heavily. Account must also be taken of the fact that the review procedure may lead to the creation of errors in the imposition of additional taxes during the ordinary equation procedure. In addition, such a system presents a good deal of demarcation problems. For example, cases in which additional ordinary taxes are levied due to information errors, without claim to blame, are in a position other than increased additional taxes in the event of intentional or gross negligence. I also see that there is a significant difference between private taxpayers and businesses, and that there will also be major differences in the gravity of the infringements. The tax base is under conversion, in the so-called ROS project. As part of this, competent and specialised tax crime units are set up in the department. Both the more serious additional tax cases and the more serious ones that should be reported to the police will be the natural areas of activity of these specialised units. The quality of, inter alia: decisions on the imposition of additional taxes can then be better ensured than they are at present. A system of publication of the names of persons receiving additional taxes is currently only at the idea stage. This is a complicated topic with the need for thorough assessments. Such work will take time. It is therefore too early to conclude on whether the scheme should be implemented or not and on how it should be designed in the event.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e668	I thank you for your answer. Yes, I also understood that this is at the idea stage, and my hope was that it would stay there. That's some of the background for the question. I could imagine challenging the Minister of Finance on the following: won't it really be completely impossible, given the competence of the regular Equator in difficult tax matters, at all, to publish the names of those who have been charged 60 pst. additional tax? If the idea is to be pursued at all, would you not have to wait until a judgment was given after the complaints were closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e675	That's one of the things that needs to be discussed. But I want to stress the seriousness of this kind of proposal coming up. It's because we have a significant tax evasion problem, which means that some perhaps resource-intensive people are evading the tax that they are originally going to pay, which undermines the tax morals of the entire society, and especially of people who have ordinary and ordinary incomes and pay their taxes, if not with joy, so in each case with understanding. So I'm not going to help shoot down any proposals that are coming, and especially not from those who are working on this field, namely the employees in the tax rate and in the equality system, because for them, this is a problem where they have to come up with proposals also on how to combat this to a greater extent, and I accept them with the greatest seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e680	I am even more uncertain about these answers than what I was when I sent my original question. I think it's possible not only to ask from this pulpit, but also to give advice, and I totally agree that tax evasion must be taken very seriously, but I think it's at least as serious to look at the fate of individuals here. It is certainly true, as the Minister of Finance says, that among the 8 000 individual cases each year, 60 pst. additional taxes are very many gross infringements. And there will be mistreatment so that after the facts of the case, this additional tax will not be implemented. Of course, they are the ones we need to protect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e685	Now I have given Stortinget and Svein Braidten a nuanced and debated answer, for these are not simple questions, and it is clear that questions about privacy must be carefully addressed in this assessment. Nor is it the case that I am now notifying that an additional tax release will be implemented, but it is one of the instruments that I believe it is reasonable to assess, and then we have to move the balance in relation to what is reasonable in terms of privacy considerations. So I haven't concluded whether this is a proposal that I'm going to make to the Storting, but I want to be open to proposals that can be effective in combating tax crime. For some of those who really have a lot of money in society, it is not the criminal tax in itself that is perhaps the most reckless, but the reputation it will be to have been among those who, with open eyes, have wanted to spare community money that they are obliged to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e697	Therefore, in line with the amendments submitted to the representatives, Question 17 has to be addressed now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e704	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Research and Higher Education who directs him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Minister of Research and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e707	I have the following questions for the Minister of Research and Higher Education, whom I understand the Minister of Finance will answer: ‘Several state building projects are pending as a result of the government’s failure to give priority to this in its annual budgets. The situation of odontology education in Bergen is precarious, and the faculty has problems maintaining the level of activity. The University of Bergen is in such a desperate situation that a letter to the Government expresses that the added and students feel that they are being fooled. When will the Government give priority to government building projects in the education sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e716	Appropriations for the launching of large investment projects must be seen primarily in relation to the overall budgetary situation for each financial year, but also in relation to the state of the construction market. Work has been started on the project of rehabilitating the centre buildings, including: The Aula at the University of Oslo. Without prejudice to the Stortinget's decision, an agreement has been reached with a private builder on stage 2 of the Kunsthögskolan in Oslo. In addition, the Government has not proposed to launch new construction projects for the university and higher education sectors in 2008. Socio-economic assessments suggest that the extent of State construction activity should be limited in view of the economic situation in the Norwegian economy and the situation in the construction market. The construction market is characterised by rising prices due to high activity in the construction industry. The market situation poses major challenges for state-owned buildings. Several of the projects that Statsbygg has under construction now have difficulties in keeping the cost frameworks, including: this applies to new information technology building at the University of Oslo [[IFIC2]] I understand the disappointment in Bergen, because there are many construction projects in Bergen that are now in line and that are highly priority. I see the need for new constructions in these areas and I would like to stress that the construction projects related to the University of Bergen and the University of Bergen are a high priority of the Government. We must come back to them in the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e727	Yes, I can confirm that the disappointment in Bergen about this state budget was great. That disappointment, I think, was cross-political and also included the trust elected by the Socialist Left Party in Bergen. Rest cuts on research and education hit Bergen very strongly because Bergen is an educational city. The sector's rest cuts are therefore directly affecting the activity. In addition, when all these construction projects are locked and stopped, the education sector in Bergen is severely affected. It is a great paradox for me that a government that can afford to grant more money than any other government in almost all areas of the state budget, and that in today’s high economic situation does not do anything to tighten up the state budget’s framework to dampen the pressure in the economy, is blinking again right here – cutting back on research, cutting back on higher education and cutting back on educational buildings. What is the reason why education and educational building are the things that put everyone, most recently in the budgetary priorities of the Socialist Left Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e738	It is not true that the Government has put in place some research cuts. Over the course of three years, we have allocated as much to research as the previous government has done in four years, and there is a significant increase in research efforts. Nor is it the case that the education sector has been specifically treated in relation to holding back new, large-scale construction projects. What is the situation is that many of the projects we now have under development have significant cost exceedances. It is linked to a lack of capacity in the construction industry, and we see it in a lot of areas. Municipalities report the exact same thing, whether it's the expansion of kindergartens or what it might be, that the cost framework cracks because they might just get tenders from one contractor. That's the background to this situation. Now we've had a historically high growth four years in a row, and it's clear that it binds the capacity in this area. But I expect that next year's growth will be a little lower, and I hope that we can come back to other major construction projects that are highly prioritised by the Government, in later budgets. Because I know the needs in Bergen are great.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e747	I'm a little surprised by this tightening up on the education side, because I don't feel that it goes back on other parts of the budget. I'll bring up two themes here. One is that State Building has already spent a quarter of a billion dollars in Bergen preparing for the construction of the college building. You've spent 250 million. kr on the purchase of land, on the pre-project and on the architectural contest. And as far as I understand, in 2008, Statsbyggen still has an opportunity to continue working on the construction of higher education and the project in Bergen, i.e. within a relatively moderate economic framework. So I would like to mention that in Tromsø these days a new odontology building is being built. It is financed by the county council, and the state's role is to make good for a future lease payment to the building that the county council is building. My question is: can the Government be involved in these kinds of solutions, i.e. either start State Building within the budgetary frameworks they have, or find alternative funding methods to realize these building projects as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e756	The money that has already been allocated to design and architectural competition in the case of the Bergen University is not wasted money. We strongly want to build this project, but for the reasons I was in, we have not prioritised it on the current year's budget. With regard to the budgetary situation in Statsbyggen, I think I have to get back to it. But different ideas about how to get around the state budget do not solve what is our main challenge in the case of large construction projects, namely that there is a shortage of capacity, and the construction industry is the one that is most explosive in a situation where we lack labour in many areas. At this point we have several examples of significant exceedances, 30-40 pst. in several areas. This time is probably the most expensive to realize new, large-scale construction projects. But that does not mean that this situation cannot change and that we are making other assessments in the 2009 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e763	Then question 20 will be taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e770	This question, from the representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad to the Minister of Culture and the Church, will be answered by the Minister of Finance who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e773	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions as appropriate: ‘In the autumn, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection proposes amendments to the VAT Act for the voluntary sector. The government is constantly referring to the work of the sample and will not address the question of full VAT exemption for the voluntary sector before the report is available, despite the fact that this is beyond the mandate of the sample to assess. Many non-governmental organisations have expectations that the Government will take a decision on the matter. Will the Council of State address the issue of full VAT exemption for non-governmental organisations as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e782	The question has been asked to the Minister of Culture and the Church, but since all questions relating to taxes and taxes belong to me, I answer the question asked by the representative of Molvær Grimstad. The Culture VAT Committee, which was established on 1 December 2006, assesses VAT legislation in the field of culture and sport, including the voluntary sector. In accordance with the mandate, the main purpose of the investigation is to facilitate a more transparent and comprehensive regulatory framework that provides less bureaucracy and lower administrative costs in these areas. As part of this work, the sample has been specifically asked to assess the extension of the VAT obligation in the field of culture and sport. The Committee shall submit its opinion by the end of the year. I can confirm what the representative, Mr Grimstad, says on his question, that it is outside the mandate of the Committee on Culture to consider a general VAT exemption for non-governmental organisations – zero rate. The background for this is that the sample is not reduced with a view to providing input data on the financing of the voluntary sector, but should look at simplifications in relation to VAT. In other words, it is not the task of the sample to decide on the level of the country’s financial contribution to the voluntary sector. Therefore, the zero rate, which implies indirect support through the VAT system, is not an assessment theme for the sample. Changes in the VAT law in relation to the voluntary sector with a view to simplification should be promoted and addressed in the context of the overall tax regime presented in the Government budgets. The Committee on Culture's investigation will be an important input into the Government's assessment of the issue of VAT and the voluntary sector. Therefore, I do not think it is right to consider the question of zero rates for non-governmental organisations until the sample has submitted its investigation. It shall be known to occur during 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e793	I thank the Council of State for your answer. At the same time, I want to say that it is good that a selection has been set down. But it has created expectations that this selection would also look at this with the exemption, zero rate, for voluntary teams and organisations. Volunteers-Noreg has stated that a person feels that it is untimely that those who drive hard and collect money for the purpose of buying uniforms have to pay VAT, while business does not pay VAT for what they buy. Several government councils have expressed that this will come back to you and that you have brought down a selection. In recent times, however, it has been clarified that this is not in the mandate, and thus some have been given the expectation that this will be explained, without it being so. How does the government intend to take concrete action on this matter? Would you like to start the government's work on finding out about measures? I know that Volunteer Norway has come up with an idea of how this can be done. How will the Government proceed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e798	There are two issues here. One is that the voluntary sector in Norway has some challenges in the design of current VAT legislation, which can lead to more bureaucracy and administrative work than is desirable. We want to facilitate the voluntary sector to have a simple task in terms of how to manage it. It's kind of a one-way problem. Then the big question, which the voluntary sector in Norway is of course very concerned about, if there is one way, through a zero rate in the VAT system, is to ensure that the appropriations for the voluntary sector in Norway are indirectly increased significantly in addition to what is currently happening directly above the State budget. Firstly, there is a question of the amount of voluntary appropriations and, secondly, of the question of where it is appropriate to do so — either through direct grants from the State budget or through special VAT arrangements. What the government thinks is that it is reasonable to see both these simplification issues, which the Committee on Culture should address, and the question of how we should support the voluntary sector in that context. We will come back to Stortinget once we have taken that discussion and made those assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e805	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its answer. In 2001, voluntary organisations received compensation for the service tax. Now, as we know now when it applies this year, 2007, the amount that has been pledged is not enough to give them full compensation, which was the intention. Voluntary teams and organisations have been told that there will be a curtailment in that compensation. For next year's government budget, the government has added a small increase, but the real increase is on the lower edge of 2 pst. My question to the Council of State will be: When voluntary teams and organizations have been informed that there is not enough money for 2007 to give the compensation that is expected, will the Council of State then be so kind, at the tamp of the year, to make suggestions to increase the chances for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e812	This treatment I don't think we're taking on the standing foot here. There are very many who are very good at presenting their questions about how the appropriations do not keep up with the rise in prices or other questions. Voluntary Norway does not support any press groups in this context. After all, we have presented a voluntary communication with significant improvements in the work of the voluntary sector. Among other things, we have changed the tax rates, so that you can now pay NOK 4000 against NOK 2000 without documentation. We have also changed these rules for the employer's fee from NOK 30 000 to NOK 45 000 and from NOK 300000 to NOK 450000. So the government's policy towards voluntary Norway is both to simplify and to make the framework conditions good for the important work done around it. Perhaps the biggest heroes in voluntary Norway are the boxes around kitchen tables that do this in late evening hours, and that ensure that many more people in Norway than in most other countries participate voluntarily and set up. It is incredibly important for children and young people and for the whole of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e819	We go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e826	‘We produce a lot of clean energy in Norway through our natural assumptions. Nevertheless, it is a greater potential to take out through upgrading and some expansions of our hydroelectric power plants. There are different calculations of how much new energy this will give. What instruments and measures will the Council of State use in relation to the energy industry to ensure the necessary upgrading of hydropower plants so that the potential for increased production is exploited?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e833	I am fundamentally concerned that we have good use and management of our natural resources and infrastructure. This also applies to hydropower, which is one of our most important natural resources, and to the power grid, which is a very important infrastructure in our modern society. The representative indicates that there are various studies on the potential for upgrading and extension of our hydropower plants. The possibilities for upgrading and expansion depend on many factors, such as power prices, costs and any aid schemes. And it depends on what opportunities it is from place to place to increase resource access to the power plants, and on what kind of natural interference governments accept in such extensions of hydropower plants. For the sake of order: the concept of upgrading includes measures to increase efficiency and reduce the fall rate of existing hydropower plants. Upgrading means exploiting a greater share of the energy potential of the water currently used for power generation. The concept of extension includes measures to increase performance, measures to increase height of fall, or measures to increase access to resources. The realisable potential for ‘pure’ upgrading is difficult to quantify accurately, but it is clear that it is relatively modest. It is linked to the fact that hydropower is a very efficient energy technology. Around the clock, hydropower plants have an efficiency of 90 pst. That is 90 pst. the theoretical energy potential of the water comes out as electricity on the grid. This is very high compared to other energy technologies, and there are limits to how high it is possible to get up to the 90s. Upgrading will be most interesting where it can be combined with various forms of expansion of the production apparatus. It is of particular importance that the potential for improvement be exploited to the extent that it is technically and economically sound. I have every reason to believe that the industry has a high awareness of this, and that the energy companies have the ambition to take good care of the infrastructure. The task of the authorities is to provide a framework to stimulate the energy industry. Let me say a little bit about just these framework conditions. Upgrading of existing hydropower plants is part of the renewable electricity support scheme. A sustained increase in production as a result of upgrading could get 4 cents per cent. kWh in aid for 15 years. Aid is limited up to the first 12 GWh per year. years. Draft rules on aid schemes are now under consultation, with a deadline of 3 December this year. Norway’s watercourse and energy Directorates have several investigations in progress dealing with different aspects of upgrading and expansion of hydropower plants. Among other things, last week a report on possible barriers to upgrading and expansion was produced by the Norwegian Institute for Water Research, NIVA. I would also like to mention that, as part of the government's work on evaluating the Energy Act, two weeks ago several studies were presented, among others. on the conditions for new power generation. We are now in the middle of a wide consultation round of these evaluation reports. I want to study carefully the results of all of these studies. Finally, a number of older hydropower concessions will be subject to conditional audit in the coming years. A conditional audit provides an opportunity to identify measures that can remedy environmental damage caused by older developments. While such remedial measures may have a positive impact on the environmental and user interests involved in the watercourses, it should also be understood that they may have a negative impact on hydropower generation and the flexibility of the power system. However, in some of the cases to be revised, there may be opportunities for both upgrading and expansion. I think it is interesting to facilitate a combination of conditional audit and upgrading and expansion. The aim of this will be to remedy previous environmental damage a bit on the road, while maintaining or increasing our access to regular hydropower generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e856	I must thank the Council of State for an informative and long answer with many shades. I asked the question to former oil and energy minister Odd Roger Enoxen, who replied that the Government will pledge to exploit the potential of upgrading existing hydropower plants. The two councils of state agree. But my question is in relation to the responsibility of the industry versus the state. State Secretary Størvold says she thinks the industry will take social responsibility, and when the prices get higher, we'll see it. That's what she said to the Newspaper last week. My challenge to the Council of State is: we have spent a year behind us with very high power prices. Nevertheless, we do not see that the industry takes this responsibility. The Council of State now provides support of 4 øre per. kWh in this upgrading system which is out for consultation. How are we going to be able to get out the potential that is, when the industry does not take its social responsibility despite high prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e865	Electricity prices have risen and decreased in recent years, and have now been lower for a period after a very high period. Now it looks like the current prices are going up again. While it is quite obvious that the electricity price will affect the way the industry operates, we as the authorities must be concerned that we should facilitate the industry's taking wise action in relation to upgrading. It is the framework conditions for this that I have tried to explain. It is a matter of contributing the electricity support system. The revision of terms and conditions may be used in this respect. So I'm going to be very open to go through the reports and studies that are now being done, precisely because I think the representative has a good point. We're going to do what we can to make sure that the infrastructure is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e872	I am pleased that we agree that we need to do something in this area, but also in relation to the wiring network that the Council of State addressed in its response. Because if we look at the NVE report last week, 1 TWh is a lot of clean energy compared to the climate challenges we're facing. I think we need to do a lot of little work just to be able to increase the production of clean energy, because that will relieve us of the challenges we face in terms of CO2 management through other energy sources. So I hope that the Council of State will be creative and active also in getting out the small resources, which 1 TWh is relative to our total consumption, but which is an important resource in a global perspective. I look forward to some active New Year roofs in this field, because it is worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e880	I look forward to continuing constructive dialogue on this. That's right, as the representative says, every pure TWh we can produce is enormously important to us. My starting point is simply that we should make good use of resources in terms of hydropower, while always weighing this against other environmental impacts. There are nice balances we're going to go in this area. In the middle of it all, we in Norway are phenomenally lucky. 99 pst. our electricity is produced from the hydropower, and we're like this in a very favourable situation. I fully agree with the representative that the formidable resource for clean energy that this represents, we shall take good care of and make the best possible use.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e889	Then we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e896	This question, from the representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e899	Then I ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «In my local team, FrP has got seven women and three men into municipal government, i.e. 70 pst. the proportion of women. We will allocate two jobs in each sample and will have to make proposals for one woman and one male in each sample under the gender distribution legislation. That means that several of the women are being deprived of the opportunity. At the same time, the party must persuade men who are far down on the list. Is the Council of State satisfied with a law that prevents women from engaging in local policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e908	The question concerns the municipality of Elva. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. That's why I'm answering. I think today's 1999 legislation has given women greater opportunities to engage in local policy. In my view, society is excited that women and men are equally engaged in political work. As I see it, I'm concerned about the results of the 2007 election results showing only a slight increase in the number of female municipal councillors. While women in the period 2003–2007 were 35,5 pst., pre-emption figures show that we are now getting 37,4 pst. women of local government. The government has launched the ‘Women’s Exhibition Window in Local Policy’ to provide a more balanced and equal representation of women and men to our local government. There is a project I am going to closely follow up. Then the representative in his question refers to the practice of the forty percent rule. The aim of this rule in municipal elections is to achieve a better balance between women and men in municipal elections. To date, the situation in the vast majority of municipalities has been that women have mostly been strong in minorities. So the law is going to help us get a more equal representation of both sexes. In practice, this will mean that the sexes that are the most poorly represented are taken into account. With the low number of women we've had, and unfortunately also after the last municipal elections in the vast majority of local government, the forty percent rule will often help us get more women into municipal elections. In a few cases, the situation is the opposite; it is men who are in a minority. In those cases, men shall be treated in the same way according to the laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e917	The Council of State says that the law should give equal opportunities, but it turns out to give us a verdict that we may not have wanted. We know from the policy that women who were elected four years ago were given too many jobs and put into too many selections – more than they wanted – precisely because the parties had to comply with the forty percent rule. Several of these women left the policy already after four years, because the workload was too high. If we lose women because of a law, and if women in the local government where there are too many of them are not allowed to be included in a selection, I hope the council will take it along and at least keep an eye on it, because we don't want a law that actually shuts the women out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e924	I can assure the representative that I am following developments closely. These numbers probably show a lot of variation between municipalities. As of today, we have too little knowledge of that. Is it true that some municipalities have had even positive developments, while other municipalities have been playing poorly for many years? Is it so that there are good women in municipal government in one municipality for one electoral period, and then to go back down into another? That's what we're about to get more knowledge about, just to know which law will be the best way to ensure equal representation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e931	The government says very often that it wants everyone to have the same rights and opportunities. Some people feel that they do not have the same rights and opportunities today — because of a law that destroys them. At the same time, the Government has granted additional funds to pilot projects in some municipalities to raise the proportion of women. I think it would be a good idea for the Council of State to take with it the experience of those municipalities that have a high proportion of women, and to look at what limitations the law actually imposes on this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e940	It's a good advice the representative gives. As I said, we don't fully know the background figure for the percentage of women elected in 2007, i.e. 37.4. What we know is that it is still important to take action to get women to make choices for more than one period. That's what we're now going to try out more in the so-called exhibition window for women in local politics, where seven municipalities and four municipal networks are selected with a background in applications where they've outlined different actions that they're going to take to correct the gender imbalance. I thought the representative raised a good question and came up with good advice, but I assume that she, as I do, does not think that there should be one law for women and one for men.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e949	The size then goes back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e956	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e959	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions that will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘A report on the health of the defence has been prepared showing how many died in the service of the defence in the period 1990–2004. The number is high. How will the Defense work to avoid these tragic events?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e968	The activities of the defence are inherently linked to a certain risk. To this end, continuous efforts are being made to improve competences, security procedures and legislation. Security has a very high priority in Defence. Everyone in the defence, from the guardians to the generals, is given systematic training in health, the environment and safety. A total of 160-200 hours of training in health, environment and safety will be provided by a person conducting command school, war school and staff school. In order to further strengthen this training, the Defence Agency has concluded agreements with civil educational institutions. In cooperation with the University of Tromsø, it is among other things. developed a study on health, the environment and safety. The University of Gjøvik has developed an educational system for risk management in international operations. Defence is now developing a common health, environmental and safety system for the whole organisation. The system will be phased in in 2008 and will facilitate the monitoring of the development of health, environment and safety over time and identify improvement areas. In summary, I would also like to mention the following measures: there have been separate positions to ensure the security of the defence sectors, the Chief of Defence has developed guidelines for the follow-up to accidents, the Action Plan for Attitudes, Ethics and Management, among others. focus on the development of a good safety culture, and the Defence Health Register systematically documents injuries to persons. Combating drugs with active prevention of abuse is also part of the security work in Defence. The approach to dealing with alcohol is restrictive, and it is zero tolerance for the use of drugs and doping drugs. Our young soldiers are very concerned with security. Each year, the first-time service trustees choose a soldier action theme. The 2006–2007 action ‘Know Your Enemy’ focused on security. The choice of theme is a clear expression of the commitment of the guardians to the security work in the Defence. Increased attention to health, environment and safety in recent years has strengthened the awareness of personnel and has influenced the entire culture of Defence in a positive direction. This work will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e981	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was complementary. The question is whether it is good enough in the future. When you look at this report, there are two things that are particularly pointing out. It's those who die during transportation, and then it's those who take their life in the first place. It's especially these two themes I'm very concerned with. When it comes to transport, it is important to move safely, and it is important to thrive in the defence, so that you do not cause damage to yourself. Maybe the government didn't say that much about it, so if it's possible to hear a little bit more about it, I'll be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e988	I'm very pleased that the representative Bredvold focuses on exactly the two areas, because if you study the numbers, it's just in the context of the two areas that very many people die. Now we must not forget that there are an incredibly large number of people who are through the Defense over such a long period of time. 163 people died in accidents and suicides during that period. Every death is one too many, so the number has to decrease. Where there is the greatest potential for reduction, it is evident in the case of transport accidents. In the case of suicide, let's do what's possible with the tools that are mentioned to reduce these numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e995	I thank the Council once again for the answer. If one goes deeper into this report, one finds that about. Half of all deaths occur when you are in the first job. Then, of course, many of the things that the Council of State had in mind in its first answer, fit in very well. Because it is clear that it is important for the UD 2-1, which deals with security in the defence, that there is a good enough command to teach in security, and not least to ensure the security procedures. So the initial service is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1002	I know that there is no topic that is more central to the Minister of Defence than the security of Norwegian personnel. This applies outside, under dangerous missions — in Afghanistan and very soon in Sudan — where life can be risked because of hostile activities, and of course the personnel in the Defense Department here at home, where a significant number of people die in the ordinary business. I can assure the representative that the Minister of Defence will do what is in her power in this area. I also know that this is a topic that is taken very seriously by military management at all levels. But it's important to bring it up in the Storting too, to focus on that more can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1011	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1014	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions that will also be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘Norway is making a great effort in Afghanistan, for which our soldiers deserve a great commendation. On the other hand, I am somewhat concerned about the standard of equipment such as: wheeled vehicles. Many of these have a very high mileage and have the impression that they are well used, even though the maintenance is very good. Does the Council see any possibility of replacing these in the near future, which will increase the security of soldiers?"
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1023	Let me first say that the Minister of Defence and I just ten days ago were on an inspection in the Faryab province of Afghanistan, where Norway is making a very important effort. I know that the Minister of Defence also, during his stay, stressed security – security against enemy attacks, but also security against accidents – as very central. The security of our soldiers and officers in Afghanistan is simply fundamental. There have been a number of serious incidents in recent years that show the need for a high level of safety focus. A central element here is the material, on which the query is based, and that the material is to maintain a high standard and a high quality. An important factor in this is maintenance. Another element that is as important for safety as having enough material is the training and training given to our soldiers, which makes them learn good practice and become aware of possible dangers. A third element is good intelligence and the acquisition of information. A good intelligence service at all levels contributes to increasing security in the areas where the soldiers are located. For example, a head of department will choose another procedure if he becomes aware that a dangerous situation is under development. The defence has many wheel vehicles in Afghanistan that have partly a high odometer level. Several of these vehicles are now to be replaced. The Minister of Defence therefore approved in spring 2007 a project for the acquisition of up to 110 new armoured vehicles of type Iveco, which will help to increase safety. This is the same type of vehicle as the Defence already uses a small number in Afghanistan. The new armoured vehicles are among others: intended to replace field wagons of type Mercedes-Benz. Armoured military vehicles are not shelf goods, and many countries have the same need for vehicles as Norway. We cannot therefore assume that the delivery of up to 110 vehicles starts before the last half of 2008. For the time being, the defence must use the materials already in place in Afghanistan and try to focus on good practices and good intelligence in order to be optimally prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1034	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have also been to Afghanistan several times, not later than a month ago, together with parts of the Defence Committee. What I do, among other things, did so, was to look at the car park we had. Many of these Mercedes Geländewagen – because they are especially the ones I think about – have gone more than one round. They have been involved in other operations around the world and have a great impact on their weariness. In addition, these cars have a total weight – with equipment and soldiers – of approx. 2 tonnes, the engine size is also important, in terms of getting out of a dangerous situation quickly. I hope you can replace many of these vehicles as soon as possible. It doesn't help just – let's say – until ten armoured vehicles, Iveco vehicles; some of them had already got. There's a lot of people that have to be replaced here. This depends on the safety of those who are going to work there, and on the fact that a job can be done in a good way with the lowest possible risk. I believe that we should replace these as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1043	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the overall approach taken by the representative Bredvold to the security of Defence, which must, of course, include the security of military operations in view of attacks by enemy operations in Afghanistan, but also security related to materials and equipment and security training. In many military operations, unfortunately, more people have died in accidents than in the military battle itself. No equipment will be purchased for Afghanistan, but new equipment that can also be used in Afghanistan will be purchased. Of course, the Minister of Defence never sends people into operations in equipment that we consider unsafe. The equipment in Afghanistan will be gradually replaced as part of the renewal of the car park in the Norwegian defence, but what is there is considered to be safe. I also want to add that there is every cause for concern about the security of our personnel in the Faryab province as a result of the increased military escalation in the south-west corner of the province in particular. We have also seen an increase in the use of suicide attacks and road bombs in Afghanistan. So these are things we're going to take as seriously as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1052	I thank the Council once again for the answer. It was good that he entered South Afghanistan, because in today's VG it says that the partners in NATO are begging Norway for more help. And it's clear that more help we should be on, of course, but in that help there must also be equipment that takes care of what we mention: the security of the soldiers. I think we agree on the target. How quickly we reach the goal can, of course, be discussed, but I believe the Council of State and the undersigned agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1061	I did not get into South Afghanistan, but on the south-west corner of the Faryab province in northern Afghanistan, where Norway is involved. I think the basic part of the idea must be that we need to stabilize that part of Afghanistan where there is now significant progress, first, and that is the northern part of Afghanistan, but also there are pockets that are not stabilized. We need to stabilize Afghanistan from the north to the south. Norway has a fundamental task of contributing to stability in the Faryab province. There are also problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1078	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘We now have three years of experience in predatory wildlife policy after the conciliation process. The level of conflict would decrease, but continues to increase. Governments and governments stick to the stock target, while it is evident that a number of other assumptions made by the Stortinge were not sustainable. The level of conflict is rising sharply and increasing concentration in the affected areas is signalled in the nations on 17 October. Does the Council of State consider this concentration policy to be in line with the intention of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1087	The fact that some areas in Norway have higher concentrations of predators than others is a natural consequence of the stock targets set as part of the deer agreement in 2004 and of which the representative Gundersen’s party, as far as I know, was part. The extremes in this way are Region 5 Hedmark, which has a population target for all four major predators, and Region 1 West Norway, which has no target for any of them. For species where the stock target has not been reached, it is natural that the stock should still have a crop. For species where the stock target has been reached, measures will be taken to reduce the stock towards the established stock target when the conflict situation so warrants. The peaks of yours in the last two years are an example of such an instrument use. One of the main principles for mitigating the level of conflict within the predatory game management is that predatory and land-based grazing should be given different priority in different parts of the country and in different parts of the individual predatory game region. Such a priority has been implemented in its management plans by the regional predators established in the framework of the predatory game settlement. The basis for these priorities is the current prevalence of predatory game, an assessment of the location of good areas of life in the future and an assessment of conflicts in relation to the practice of nutrition. Priority shall be given to grazing in areas with priority grazing status and there is therefore a lower threshold for the granting of breeding authorisation in those areas. Priority areas for predatory game shall, on its side, be given the highest priority by allocating funds for preventive action and the desired migration. The intention is an effective use of these funds and that it is to a large extent to compensate for the challenges associated with living with predatory game. In 2007, 44 million were granted. to prevent and mitigate conflicts. For 2008, this item has been proposed to be increased by 9 million. kr. In addition, conversion to other production is covered by the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the challenges of predatory game management are many and sometimes very complex. The rapprochement is three years old, and in these years there has been a radical change in Norwegian pill management, not least in terms of organisation and the exercise of authority. The management system therefore needs to work over a little longer before it is possible to draw safe conclusions about its effect and assess the appropriateness of making significant price changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1098	I thank you for your answer. It is not often heard so clearly that there are certain areas in which many rights need to be violated. This is about much more than just feeding grounds and livestock grazing, it's all about everything from quality of life to hunting and fielding and that kind of thing. I want to make the Minister for the Environment aware of what was actually Storting's intention. It is in the setting: ‘The Committee will stress that the two-part objective is to be maintained and considers that viable farming activities in areas of wild game continue to be possible.’ In addition, it also said: ‘With regard to the distribution of predators within the regions, it is assumed that the Government will have to take into account that the overall pressure on predators will not increase in the regions from which it is a great deal, rather the number of animals should decrease.’ So you're using a predatory settlement to run a policy that's really across Storting's intentions. It is obvious that conflicts will also increase with the policies pursued today — at least in the areas affected. Does the government take this over, or do you continue along the same track?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1117	Firstly, I would like to ask for some understanding that I have been the Minister of Environmental Protection for something like three days, and that I have not had all the world's time to go deep on this issue. My opinion so far is that what the Government is doing, and which I intend to continue, is to follow up a settlement entered into in the Storting, including the Right Party of the Representative – a settlement that aims to ensure that we discharge the international obligations we have to care for predators, but at the same time takes care of many of the concerns of the representative Gundersen: the concern of grazing areas for sheep, and also of other aspects of human quality of life. Our opinion is that this is best taken care of by continuing with the agreement that Stortinget has laid down and that has different priorities in different parts of the country. That this is a topic where there will be conflict even in the years to come, I think everyone understands, because there is a conflict between legitimate, reasonable, proper interests – interest in doing our part to take care of nature and heritage in the case of predators, and that we should also facilitate outreach.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1124	I understand very much that the Minister for the Environment has not been in the post for a very long time. But I would ask him to read the whole setting. If one finds out that a policy doesn't go along with what was the Storting's intention, it might be time to take it up again for debate and see how to put up a policy that avoids the big conflicts. Today we are in the midst of a trail that creates ever greater conflicts. They're talking about compensatory measures. There's a lot of bets. I think it's amazing that an environmental policy is going to go into a lot of the land and split up the land. I find that it reduces the value of the plot. There is no sustainable policy, as I see it. I can ask the question very simply: Is it in a red-green government's spirit that in and of course quite nutrient-depleted areas like these that are involved, and which are now also taking the strain, should the name of a predatory game policy increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1133	Let me first say that my intention is, of course, as far as it is possible, as far as it is in human power, to reduce the conflicts associated with predatory game management. But we cannot reduce or eliminate the conflicts associated with predatory game management by removing predators. There is the set goal that the Storting agrees on. Those are the goals that I set for us to meet. But if there's one thing I'm not nervous about – here I think we can calm the representative Gundersen – it's the fear that this matter will disappear from the political agenda and disappear from the Stortinget. That is the impression I have, by the fact that it is already later today another question on the same matter. So I feel very confident that this matter will remain under debate, and remain in Stortinget. We'll have ample opportunity to get back to it. If no one else is going to contribute to that, I am absolutely sure that the representative Gundersen is going to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1144	I will ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘An investment of approximately 80 million has been made. NOK in a new District Psychiatric Centre in Halden, which should now have been used. The opening is postponed indefinitely because in summer the Riksantikvaren suddenly adopted a temporary peace decision. This Decision has now been appealed to the Ministry of the Environment and is at the discretion of the Council of State. Does the Council of State consider that the Riksantikvaren has provided sound treatment when their behaviour may lead to a very vulnerable patient group not receiving an offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1153	The representative of Engeset also raised this issue in the Questionnaire 14 days ago, in a question to the Minister of Health and Health. It is clear from the answer he received at the time that ensuring vulnerable patient groups good treatment provision is an important area of concern for the Government. With regard to the specific issue that has now been raised in the question raised by the representative of Engeset, this is a matter which is at the heart of the complaint that the Department is currently dealing with and which we will deal with in a timely manner. Therefore, I do not want to comment on this in more detail, but I just want to make sure that the answer to this complaint will come in the very near future. With regard to the background to the conflict that has arisen, the country is the owner of many culturally valuable properties. A comprehensive project has been carried out in recent years to identify and document these properties. The aim is to ensure a selection of properties through formal protection decisions. Each sector is responsible for implementing this work. In the proposal for a National Protection Plan for the health sector, Halden Hospital has received a high level of protection and is in the category assumed to be secured by conservation. It is this that is the concrete background that the Riksantikvaren has engaged in the reconstruction work at the hospital. The challenge will be to reconcile the desire to ensure important cultural historical values with the need to implement the necessary transformations and modernisations. The cultural memory management has extensive experience in developing such solutions. Finally, I would like to refer to Minister of Health and Health Sylvia Brustad’s reply to the representative Engeset in the Question Time on 10 October 2007, where she made it quite clear that the patient groups in question will of course not be standing without an offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1166	It is true that this project was adopted in 2004. There has been a long process of development, and this very important patient offer should have been in use several months ago. Now it is the case that curtains, furniture and bedspreads are in place, but the protection measures of the Riksantikvaren have postponed this indefinitely. I am very pleased that the Council of State says that a quick decision will be made. I hope that there will be a decision that these patients can live with. And the only thing they can live with is that this treatment offer at Halden Hospital is being used. But it is the case, the Council of State, that in its letter to the Ministry of the Environment on 13 September this year, the Riksantikvar writes: ‘We see that if the Riksantikvar had come into the picture earlier, the situation would be quite different for both parties.’ That's what was behind my question to the Council of State about the treatment of the Riksantik product, because the Riksantik product here admits that they've come too late on the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1176	Once again, of course, this is a matter I do not know in detail. My mother is from Halden, but otherwise I have no detailed knowledge of this matter. Just some general considerations: one is that conservation is not the same as non-use. At a very large number of the buildings we're at peace in Norway, they're just meant to be peaced and used, and used in a new way. This does not mean, if the conclusion is to follow up the Riksantikvaret's views, that it is the same as not to use the hospital. It shall be used and used for its purpose. And then a couple of other reflections: the Riksantikvaren may have come too late in the case, I don't know. But what should be close to the heart of the representative of Engese is that this is state conservation and state cultural memory. I would assume that with Right ideology it should not only be private that do this, the state has a very important responsibility to contribute to this kind of protection. This is an example of trying to practice it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1185	I am pleased that the Council of State stresses that this is a state responsibility. It is important to ensure the protection of cultural memories, but if the State has a responsibility, there will also be a question of whether the State will take responsibility for the significant additional costs if the objections of the Riksantik product are taken into account. This will mean that you will have to start a new long construction process, with a significant number of millions in extra costs. Who will take responsibility for covering that bill? Is it the patients in Eastfold who are going to get a worse offer elsewhere because they are going to release money at these extra costs? There is a concern that the hospital service in Eastfold now has related to this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1190	The views expressed here will be typical views in a lot of protective matters, and are part of the basis for the decision that needs to be taken. Of course, if a safeguard decision is adopted, the ambition here will be to minimise the impact of protection on the other important societal considerations highlighted by Engeset. This will be part of the decision that needs to be taken – again, very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1200	«According to VG and Trønder-Avisa on 9 October, a Swedish elkman was attacked and killed by the bear night until Monday 8 October in Valsjöbyn, Sweden, just a few kilometres from the Lierne municipality in the Nord-Trøndelag. [[61]] Two men were attacked and injured by the bear in Härjedalen in Sweden on Sunday 14 October. This was the second bear attack in the area in a week. These events have led to increased insecurity among the residents of the municipality of Lierne. Will the Council of State take the initiative to establish a joint administration between Norway and Sweden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1207	Let me first let me give the questioner an honor to address a matter for which of course there is a very strong local commitment in the Lierne, but also in many other places. That people feel fear based on the pictures and the TV recordings we've seen, I have it all, the greatest understanding of. For the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2003-2004, Rovvilt in Norwegian nature, Stortinget made a broad agreement on the predatory policy. It was made clear that Norway should have a certain number of juveniles of yerv, gloat, bear and wolf. The government is basing this agreement, and it is going to be followed up at all levels, as I also said in an answer to a previous question today. The predatory game species found in Norway are all to a greater or lesser extent in common populations with Sweden. Norway and Sweden both have a responsibility to ensure the long-term viability of the common Scandinavian predatory populations. This is due to the fact that both countries have autonomous obligations under the Berne Convention. The national stock target for bear is set at 15 annual juveniles. Sweden has set a much higher stock target, with a minimum target of 100 annual juveniles. Although Norway has set a national population target for bears, this does not mean that the population situation in Norway can be assessed in isolation. The stock target for all four predatory species is designed from the fact that parts of the stock have a coherent cross-border distribution. Drug use is also characterised by the sharing of wild game populations with neighbouring countries. For bears, the movement of animals across the borders towards Sweden is of particular importance, for example: when assessing whether killing or hunting is harmful to the survival of the population. Norway has a long tradition of cooperation with both Sweden and Finland on predatory game, especially in research and stock monitoring. Such cooperation shall include, inter alia: information exchange, mutual consultations and discussions on management issues relating to common stocks, joint financing and priority for research, common stock monitoring methodology and mutual access to databases. Norway and Sweden are also cooperating on one of the most comprehensive research projects on bears available today. Good administrative cooperation with Sweden is important in order to ensure coherent cross-border populations of wild game, thus increasing the risk of survival. However, joint management between the two countries is not relevant. This follows, among other things: of the autonomous obligations of Norway and Sweden towards the Berne Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1224	The agreement on predators, to which the Council of State refers, states that it must be a viable grazing throughout the country. In the Lierne municipality of Nord-Trøndelag, there has been a long time living in a situation where there has been a direct conflict between humans and predators. The conflict has been growing in recent years, especially in the light of events where bears have been found in the interior and where bears have drawn ever closer to houses and populations. Yes, some have actually seen a bear in the courtyard. The bear has also moved closer to densely built strips and residential areas. In those cases where there is a direct conflict between humans and predators, who does the Council of State consider to have priority — predators or the population who have settled there and who have had their livelihood there for a long, long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1233	It goes without saying that where there is a direct threat to human life and health, man takes precedence. I consider that to be an absolute self-evident, raised above any discussion. At the same time, taking care of the natural heritage, biodiversity, which for Norway is taking care of the four large predators, is a very central objective of this government. It is a significant international environmental objective. Norway is good at asking other countries to protect its different habitat types. We also have to take our own part in that responsibility. It also includes the obligations we have towards the Berne Convention. Norway has a separate responsibility to do so. I am very interested in what the representative asks about, namely much closer cooperation with Sweden in these areas – including with Finland. We need more Nordic cooperation, but we still have an independent responsibility to meet our international obligations in terms of diversity in nature, including predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1242	In the predatory agreement, the Council of State has set specific stock targets. But little is said about how long you're going to take to achieve the goals that are set. As long as the populations are measured in the number of juveniles and not in the number of animals, I will ask the Council of State the following questions: Will the Council of State, on that basis, allow more males to be taken out? Will it be assessed whether longer time is needed to achieve the objectives adopted? Or will the Council of State assess the stock targets in a completely new perspective when you get more DNA evidence showing that there are actually more animals than you first assumed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1249	Of course, we will base all decisions on the best available scientific basis. It's amazing how good information you have on these things – how many young people or how many coals are coming, etc. Of course, we'll base ourselves on that, and then, if new techniques make new information available, we'll base ourselves on it. That this is a conflictable area, anyone who has traveled around Norway is fully aware of it. We need to find the necessary compromises that enable man to live safely even with off-road industries in vulnerable areas, but then so that we take care of our part of the natural heritage, which is predatory here. And then we're going to find those compromises. I don't think we deserve to see that the Storting is still finding new compromises. So now we have a predatory compromise that is three years old. Let's make it work. Let's base our decisions on that for a period, and then we can draw conclusions based on the experiences we reap.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1355	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. Question 17 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1364	This question, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Health who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1367	‘For a long time, efforts have been being made to strengthen legal certainty where young children die suddenly. The Child-Death Project has made a number of recommendations to improve the routines of sudden death in infants and young children. This is important, among other things, in order to provide good information, not least in order to ensure the legal certainty of children. The proposals have now been under consideration for a very long time. When will the Government conclude and thus ensure the children in a better way than today?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1374	The follow-up to the child-mortality project is an important matter, and it has been a difficult matter. In the working group that assessed the follow-up to the project, it was known as representatives from both the health authorities and the prosecution authorities. As you know, health services and the police have two very different objectives. It is fundamentally foreign to health professionals to provide otherwise silent information to the police for investigation, because the primary task of health professionals is to prevent and treat disease. The protection of sensitive patient information is an important part of this. Understanding the professional secrecy of healthcare professionals is one of the reasons why it has been difficult to follow up this project. But here we've tried to look around this, for the sake of the children. The government has now decided to make a mandatory offer for a death-place health care survey in all cases of sudden unexpected infant and child deaths, i.e.: where children aged 0-3 die. It is mandatory for healthcare to provide such an offer to parents, but parents may decline the offer. The specific teams to conduct such studies shall not provide health care to their parents. Such health care shall be provided by the ordinary municipal health service or by the specialist health service, as at present. However, it must be taken into account that clarification of cause of death would be in the interests of parents. The site of death survey shall be carried out by specific teams to be established by the healthcare system. Teams must have sufficient competence to reveal facts in the case, both in the light of the physical conditions at the place of death and in the light of information from their parents on the child’s medical history and symptoms. The study shall be conducted as soon as possible and no later than 48 hours after death has been detected. The site of death study is considered to be part of the care of the deceased child and the results of the study are to be written in the child’s records. The purpose of the study is to help determine the cause of death. This is a necessary condition for using the international diagnosis of creep death. The study will also be able to provide knowledge which may be relevant in the prevention context. If the site of death study shows that the cause of death may be the result of a criminal offence, the health professional shall notify the police. For this reason, regulatory changes are necessary to implement the provision of site-of-death studies. I aim to ensure that that consultation note can be sent at general consultation at the very beginning of 2008, with a three-month consultation period. I also point out that the arrangement for this is also detailed in St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1387	I am very pleased with the answer given by the Minister of Health here, and that – what to say – the contradictions of interest that have previously existed between the justice sector and the health sector seem to have been resolved. The Minister of Health said that special teams should be set up and that this should be done under the direction of healthcare. Then my follow-up question will be: will these teams ensure that there is also forensic competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1394	We want to make sure that the personnel we think must be on the ground in such tragic situations are involved. We have not yet developed all the details about this in what we have presented to the Stortinget for consideration. But as soon as the Storting has made its decisions, we will implement this, send regulations to the hearing, etc. It is clear that we have to mann this so that we take care of all the reasons we have to take care of, including what is essentially here, namely to find the reason why a child dies all of a sudden.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1399	I'm glad. The Council of State is well aware of my question as to what I think on the occasion of the case. It's okay. I really have one last question. Fortunately, deaths in this situation do not happen so often. At the same time, it's more often than we might like to imagine. What is important in any case is that those who make up the teams build up their skills through experience, not least. My question is: do you see – perhaps it is not clarified – that these should be few teams that will have the opportunity to address several issues, so that through their own work they develop experience and thus also the skills to do the job better and better as time runs?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1406	As I said, we haven't taken a decision on the final design of what this is going to look like, but what's clear is that we're not going to have a lot of teams. There has to be some team that has the best expertise on what we're talking about here, that's seamanship can do a lot about it, and that knows what needs to be done. It's in the case. So I'm taking with me the Syvers' opinions and thoughts about who should be involved in the further process, and then we're going to try to set this up – if the Storting goes for this, and I really hope so – in such a way that we're able to discover more than what we're doing today in such tragic situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1413	Questions 19 and 20 have already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1421	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Health and Care: ‘In the Address Paper we can read about a 36-year-old woman from Kristiansund who is overweight and needs a lot of help in the specialist health service on 17 October 2007. The girl who stands out in the paper has a BMI of 43, and should therefore comply with the requirement to be entitled to the necessary health care. It has been suggested that the waiting time could be as long as one year before an inquiry into the specialist health service. Does the Council of State consider this acceptable?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1430	I would first like to stress that patients from the patient group to which the questioner refers are guaranteed the right to evaluation and necessary treatment by the Patient Rights Act in the same way as other patients. The law states that all those referred to hospitals have the right to have their health status assessed within 30 working days, and that a medical evaluation of each patient should be essential for determining, when and what type of treatment to provide. Patients who have been assessed to be in such a serious state of health that they are entitled to the necessary health care shall also be granted an individual deadline for the time of treatment. If the treatment period is exceeded, the patient may be entitled to treatment by a private provider or abroad. It is the regional health companies, who are well aware of the questioner, that have responsibility. Thus, it is also necessary to ensure that service provision is of sufficient quality and scope to meet these obligations, and that proper and comprehensive priority is given to it. However, I am committed to ensuring that this patient group is offered an equivalent and comprehensive high-quality treatment provision. I am aware that there is a development work between regional health companies for, among others. ensuring the correct prioritisation of this patient group as well. Patients with severe overweight are not a consistent patient group. There are patients who often have a complex medical history, many often need long-term follow-up, and they often need different interventions. In recent years, regional health establishments have established their own fat treatment centres in each region. These are interdisciplinaryly manned and offer a wide range of treatments. We also know that the causes of obesity can be many and complex. After treatment, too many people will need long-term and, for some, life-long conversion of their own lifestyle. It's usually a demanding process. Several of the regional centres for obesity treatment therefore emphasise that multidisciplinary teams are to investigate patients very thoroughly before the treatment itself, and that treatment and follow-up take place, seafaringly, in close cooperation with the patient. Five years ago, not many surgeries were performed against obesity. The number of obesity operations has increased considerably since 2004. This is in line with the medical understanding of obesity and obesity as a health problem. In recent years, specialist healthcare has come a long way in developing treatment courses for morbidly overweight patients, but there is still much to be done in this field. In addition to obese operations, we offer lifestyle treatment through a research and development project in Health Mid-Norway. For patients who are referred to treatment for morbidity in Health Mid-Norway, work is now being done to reorganise the investigation and diagnostics of health firms. This means that disciplines cooperate in a multidisciplinary outpatient clinic. The aim of this is to investigate, diagnose and initiate an adapted treatment course in collaboration with the patient and the primary healthcare system as early as possible. Status in the field per year. Today, Health Nord-Trøndelag HF has a similar system for patients undergoing surgical treatment at St. Olav's Hospital HF, which is planning a multidisciplinary outpatient clinic. The health establishments in Health Mid-Norway have informed that the investigation period for surgery shall be not more than three to six months. Starting course in the direction of the Regional Centre of St. Olavs Hospital has an average waiting time of three months. The start-up course lasts a total of 15 hours and is about treatment provision, lifestyle changes and social rights. Although in this particular case I do not know all the details – I know it from the media and from what the questioner has now referred to – I will inform Health Mid-Norway about this discussion, so that they can ensure that the patient, if the information that has come up is correct, receives the offer she is entitled to under the Patient Rights Act, because they have also informed that the waiting time for this start-up course for the treatment of morbid obesity on average is three months. The patient has also been given the opportunity to avail himself of the right to free hospital choice if she feels that there is a long waiting period for the hospital to which she is referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1449	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I know that the Council of State is busy with this group, and that it's doing a lot. The only question is, how fast can we get to the goal? We're almost talking about a pandemic in these areas, because we're actually seeing all over the world that you have a very negative development related to obesity. According to the article referred to by the undersigned in his question, she has been assisted in a number of physical plagues. That's what it says. ‘But in the case of obesity, the message is ready: to St. Olav’s Hospital, she will not be sent to the investigation until one year from now.’ In this context — if this information is correct — it is quite obvious to me that this will almost be a violation of the patient rights that you already have linked to this group. So my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State contact Health Mid-Norway, as has been said here, so that at least this matter can be assessed in such a context?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1463	Yes, I will. I want to make contact with Health Mid-Norway and make sure that they ensure that the patient receives the offer she is entitled to under the Patient Rights Act, provided that the information we have received is correct. With regard to the general – as the representative Nesvik also points out – I fully agree that there are major challenges related to morbid obesity, obesity and the developments we are seeing in this area. This means that we need to do a much more active preventive health work. It is therefore signed with several boats who have talked about and tried to do a lot in terms of physical activity, diet, etc. Because if we don't manage to slow down the evolution we're seeing now, it can actually be so bad that the generation that's growing up now is the first generation that lives shorter than its parents. We cannot sit still and look at developments in this area, either in Norway, in Europe or in large parts of the world. This is why the government’s focus on preventive health work is as strong as it actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1470	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I can put myself fully behind both what needs to be done, and what you actually do in a number of areas. What is a little important, however, is that we have a variety of different types of actions, because we as people also react differently, and take on knowledge in different ways. Therefore, it is important that we have many different types of measures and ways in which we can address this matter. Obviously, most of us also have a responsibility for our own health, so it's a requirement for ourselves that we have to follow up in a proper way. But then it's also clear that some people need help to get started dealing with their problem. I am aware that at Tingvoll in More and Romesdal, there has been a recording that is just an offer to obese people and to people who are in the process of developing so much overweight that they are even about to fall out of work. Is the Council aware of this measure, which can be very good for individuals both in the current situation and as a follow-up? Will the Council of State take a closer look at this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1479	Firstly, I agree that we need a wide range of measures. One of the most important things, as the government sees it, is that we start with our kids. That's why we focus so much on what's going on in kindergartens and in schools, with fruit and green and all that debate, and physical activity, where we've now expanded that proportion for the current school year, to mention a few measures. With regard to the question of Tingvoll in particular, I am well aware of that matter. There are many actors in this area who have now notified their interest to the Ministry in order to launch different actions. And in the case of Tingvoll, we're looking at that matter right now. The last input from the initiators and the municipality is now in a final round, and we will make a final decision on this matter in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1490	I ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs the following questions: ‘With fatal consequences for the owners, the ‘Willassen Senior’ was lowered by Kai in Svolvær on 31 August. There's no proof of anything. the person who has carried out this serious damage operation is present, which means that the insurance company has so far assumed no liability in the matter. Several look at the sinking as an attack on Norwegian whaling industry. What will the Council of State do to prevent the owners of the shot from carrying the total loss alone, for an act that is likely to be an attack on a single Norwegian marine mammals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1499	Of course, I distance myself from any form of violence that aims to scare Norwegian fishermen and fishermen from legal and sustainable business. From the government side, we take this very seriously. For any reason, the ‘Willassen Senior’ is a tragedy for the shipowner, the crew and the whaling industry. But I want to wait for the results of the police investigation before commenting on the circumstances surrounding the crash, including what the government might want to do to the owners of the shot. In any case, it is important for the fishing industry that it is best equipped to withstand the economic consequences of a loss, whether by accident or by sabotage. There are insurance schemes that cover both conditions and it is the responsibility of the shipowner to have them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1508	Let me first say that I'm a little surprised at the answer, because it's a little in contrast to what the Council of State has previously stated, that you want to do what's possible to help those who are affected by this action, whether sabotage or other criminal action that's why shooting was deliberately lowered. I take it for granted that the department is aware that a police investigation takes a long time. It can take a very long time. Two months have already passed, and the police are unable to demonstrate the cause of the downturn – whether there is a deliberate foreign sabotage, for which someone has actually taken direct responsibility, or whether there is another damage. Therefore, in the interests of companies, owners, employees, local communities: will the Council of State now take the initiative, because of the urgency, to put in place a State guarantee – preferably in cooperation with insurance companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1513	Let me just stress that I am following this matter very carefully, but I am also concerned about being neat in the procedure. The Willlasen Senior is not a unique example. «Nybræna» was lowered by the dock in 1992. At the time, the insurance cover covered the costs of getting the boat back into service, as the sinking was considered a gross damage. Later, Paul Watson was convicted of being accomplice in the lowering of the "Nybræna". There are many organizations that are against whaling and that will take credit for gross damage done on a whaling gun. It's terribly hard to determine if it's right, or if it's just boast. There is no evidence that Agenda 21 is behind the lowering of the ‘Willlasen Senior’, even if the organisation claims it. If the police conclude that there is serious damage done and you do not know who caused it, the insurance company will probably cover the damage caused by the insurance policy, which is the ‘Willlasen senior’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1520	I am even more surprised to hear the Minister of Fisheries and the Coast answer for the second time, because one should know that the company is likely to go down in the meantime, to the delight of the saboteurs. It should take the ministry a little bit more seriously than this one says. It is only to the delight of saboteurs who commit damage. Probably in this case, we don't know anything, it's an attack on the total, continuous Norwegian whaling industry. It cannot be said in Norway that the company and the practitioners are going to go down financially pending a police investigation that we know is complicated and that is going to take time. Therefore, I repeat my question: Will the Council of State, or will she not, pending the end of the investigation, take an initiative to put in place a guarantee scheme to enable the company to operate further, so that employees, owners and communities can face a safer future? The alternative is to go to the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1525	I can only repeat that I am going to follow this matter carefully, but I cannot, as Minister of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, pre-conclusion on the police investigation. I cannot go out and conclude that the boat has been subjected to sabotage, as long as the police have not concluded. So I want to wait for the police investigation before I decide, if any, what the department will do in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-24.ana.ud1205e1530	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
