ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e37	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e40	On behalf of Erna Solberg, André Oktay Dahl, Kari Lise Holmberg and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal to give the police a basis of residence to intervene in the provision of sexual services, organized begging, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e45	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e63	After the first riot that naturally occurred after the well-known violence incident on the tram in Oslo a short time ago, a number of conditions arose that should have caused the alarm bells to ring. At least it called for the man with Somali background who went to the doctor with earpieces after his doctor's advice. Voices that threatened him took over control of his life, and at the same time he was very run down after a strong abuse of the cat. He himself stated the following in court: "I was frustrated because I didn't have a place to live, and therefore I continued to rush. I used approx. One kilogram of cat a day, and I used it both during the day and at night. I felt it very strongly, and that I almost went mad." This man is not alone and is part of the back of the Medal of Integration Policy. A stone’s throw from the Greenland police house in Oslo is sold for periods of one tonne of the banned narcotic plant cat in less than a week. The majority of users are from Somalia, and an estimated 50–70 pst. of Somali men chew the intoxicating leaves on a regular basis. But there are also other groups with immigrant backgrounds. This social problem has been identified at irregular intervals, but it has not been taken seriously by either political authorities, police and prosecution authorities or health services. In the past, police and customs seized no more than 2.7 tonnes of cat. There are pro-miles of weekly turnover in the middle of Oslo in periods. Every day, 11,418 people pass the customs locks on the main aerodrome of the country. Five of these are taken and assigned to simplified presentations, according to numbers from the VG. In January of this year, the Health Policy spokesman of the Workers’ Party, Jan Bøhler, felt that enough was enough. It is unacceptable that the police do not intervene, said Bøhler in a large interview in the evening post. In reply to me dated 17 October, the Minister of Justice, on his side, replied that cat is somewhat more powerful in effect than coffee/caffeine, and that cat should have about the same function for a Somali as alcohol for a Norwegian. As most people see, there is a certain difference between Jan Bøhler's approach and the Government's approach, but there is little doubt that Bohemia's approach should inspire, to say it cautiously. The right as the only party has taken a clear stand on zero tolerance to drugs in order to create safe communities. Men who use cats get irritable and can quickly become violent at home, and they can't get into or keep a job. Initially, there is also reason to say that more and more women now start using cat simply to try to keep men at home. This leads to a negative spiral for both: sleep problems, mental problems, and they are definitely not effective workers — to the extent that they have a job. Like other addicts, catwrights have to spend a lot of money on getting the drug. A bundle of the fabric costs about $200, and a person uses from one to four bundles every time he uses the fabric. It destroys many families both socially and economically. And cat abuse contributes in every way to preventing the integration of an entire population into Norwegian society. Children and young people growing up in this area are more than potential recruits for gangs and organised crime, in the absence of other adult models. All of this could have been said about alcohol and other drugs too, but while the authorities in most of the contexts have developed strategies to reduce this abuse, this is almost empty – apart from the fact that we are all being raised when a mentally unstable Somali who chews kilos of cat, goes amok on the trick, and the cat abuse is part of the total problem for this. By accepting the extensive catgling, the Norwegian authorities accept that a large proportion of the approximately The 18 000 somalists living in the country are out of town because of drug abuse. We do not close our eyes in the same way to the corresponding problem in a so-called ethnic Norwegian environment. I think that is discriminatory. Comparing cat with coffee is in this context a very bad signal and not a contribution to explaining especially young people how dangerous a cat is, to make them better able to resist pressures from the environment. In its October reply, the Council of State warns that prevention measures require broad cooperation between public authorities, including integration authorities, health services, social services, customs and police as well as the Somali environment itself, and that the Government should ensure that police take part in such cooperation. It's a positive intention that the Right and I'll stick to it completely. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State today to clarify what this cooperation is, or will consist of. Has the Council of State and the Government, for example: will contribute to the establishment of pilot projects focusing on the treatment of those most severely affected, detoxification and help to structure their lives, and that this is done in cooperation with existing health services? Does the Government share the assessment that individual competence and guidance needs to be surveyed combined with the building of skills aimed at the needs of the labour market? Examples of things that can work are training in Norwegian and training for driving licences, driver training, which also gives status in parts of the Somali environment, or adapted training arrangements in how to start own activities in Norway, introduction of laws and regulations and different guidance services. It is important to follow up on young people so that they get on with work and education, and not get involved in the cat environment because of lack of other things to deal with. They may not have parents — several of them are lone minors — or, as I said, have parents who themselves abuse cat, and no other role models. Many young people with a minority background need, as a well-known help to understand concepts in higher education and lower vocational education, such as: auxiliary care, where there is a great need for skilled labour, because they do not have a deep understanding that makes them master the subjects and stand for exams. I choose to think so very loudly, because, as I said at the outset, it is not established proper strategies or procedures to combat the cat problem as such. But I'm also going to be so honest and honest that I recognize both that the Constitutional Responsibilities of the Council of State are limited in relation to the extremes of the issues I raised now, and that there are no fixed solutions that can be implemented tomorrow. The introduction programme, for example: have many strengths, but many of the cat addicts are not covered by it, and the possible local offers do not have the positive mixture of whips and carrots needed to get them out of the abuse. Finally, something which, on the other hand, is within the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State, and which I am not least asking the Council of State to comment on, is the signal effect that one of the nearest neighbours of the police house is a drug dealer. It creates unsafe families, it creates unsafe communities. A zero tolerance strategy is required also for the misuse of cat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e96	Kat is to be regarded as a drug. It's on the drug list. It was included in that list between 1989 and 1990. There is therefore no doubt that the placing on the market and use of cat is a criminal offence in Norway. The same applies to the other Nordic countries. In this way, I share the interpellant's concern for the Somali families affected by the abuse and – easily – the use of cat. However, I do not find any point of view to say, as the interpellant with reference to my answer to question 43 for 2006-2007 to the Storting claims, that the need for action is ‘decreased’. When discussing the best way to prevent the use of cat and the use of criminal instruments, it is necessary to know about the adverse effects of the substance. According to Kripos, cat is a low-proportion amphetamine-like material, somewhat more potent in effect than caffeine, but less than for example. Amphetamine-containing preparations. This was also the content of my response to the representative Oktay Dahl, to whom he refers, and to which he draws to the point that we are comparing the use of catwort with coffee drinking. I have problems understanding how to interpret such an answer in such a way. I think it is absolutely important when we are going to fight all kinds of drugs, that we also dare to go into the more pharmacological effect of the drugs. There are differences, and that's what we've been trying to describe. I think it's important to have it with you, also to understand the effect of it. So at the same time, I want to use the opportunity to invite the representative Octay Dahl and the representatives of the Right to take part in the next interpellation debate, because if you really want to get involved in the drug use in this society, it is also time to get involved in the topic that is going on that debate. So this is the way that Kripos classifies cat's strength. It is not a de minimis approach to cat use, nor is it a presentation of the fact that cat has a potential for damage in line with coffee drinking. Kat is a drug and is then treated. The use of cat is mainly a problem isolated in some immigrant settings, perhaps in particular Somali. It is mainly men who use cat, and we know that it can have major economic and social consequences for the user’s closest – women and children. Thus, the problem of cats is not just a question of the use of an illicit drug, but, to the most extent, a question of the well-being and inclusion of immigrant settings where cat is prevalent. Kat is in this way in the same category as many of the other drugs we surround, both the legal ones and the illegal ones. The prevention and detection of drug crime is one of the primary roles of the police, and it is for this reason that the police have to assess at any time how best to take police action. This also applies to the misuse of cat. Police action against cat therefore needs to be seen in the context of other forms of drug crime and drug use, especially in relation to the most risky drugs, such as heroin, amphetamines, cocaine, cannabis resin and alcohol use. Oslo police districts have carried out actions against places where cat is used and traded. It is therefore not debatable, either under the previous government or under the current government. However, experience shows that once the police have closed a collection site, the environment is moved immediately to another location. Police action alone is therefore not enough to stop the use of cat. Otherwise in Europe, cat is only considered to be an exceptional drug. It's a challenge for us, because we don't get the same pressure in international cooperation when other countries accept this drug and make it a legal substance. It is thus a political challenge to combat both the introduction, placing on the market and use of the drug, when other countries in Europe generally do not give priority to this. It makes police cooperation across borders difficult. Such cooperation has a very good experience in combating other drugs. On the Norwegian side, some of the work on stopping entry into the country has to be concentrated, and some of the work on arresting and punishing the individual user has to be done. The introduction of cat to Norway is mainly from England and the Netherlands by aircraft. The largest and most seizures are made by Customs in connection with airport entry control. The police confiscation of cat is made essentially in Oslo, Rome and Eastfold police districts. Both the number of seizures and the number of kilograms of cats seized have dropped from 2003 to 2004 and from 2004 to 2005. In 2005, the quantity of cat seized was slightly above 2 700 kilograms, to which the interpellant was assigned, with a total of 211 seizures. In order to prevent the introduction, sale and use of cat, broad cooperation between public authorities is necessary, on which interpellant was also involved. Integration authorities, health services, social services, customs and police as well as the Somali environment need to join forces on prevention measures. In cooperation between the departments concerned, appropriate measures will be considered to reduce the negative impacts of cat-use. These measures must be seen in a comprehensive welfare policy perspective, where education, work and inclusion are important elements. In addition, the prevention of cat-use needs to be seen in the context of the prevention of other drug problems. I want to underline this issue. It is with all kinds of drugs that we see a close link between the use of illicit drugs and the use of legal substances, so that a dangerous way to prevent all types of drug use is, in fact, to pursue a still restrictive alcohol policy in this country. I want to invite Right with in an active collaboration in that way. The work shall be research and knowledge-based and the Government shall play on teams of relevant immigrant organisations. The government will come back to concrete actions in implementing the forthcoming escalation plan for the drug field – a work for which the Minister of Health and Health has the primary responsibility – and we will take with us the signals that are now coming from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e126	I thank the Council of State for the answer and the extended hand in terms of cooperation to continue a struggle that has not really begun. It accepts the right, and we're going to contribute. This is primarily a question of integration policy and how to create a new chance for people who have fallen outside for many years. So it's part of the work that was taken up during the Questionnaire yesterday to Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. Of course, he is not here today, but probably one of the most important jobs he has to do, along with the rest of the government, is to make sure that these somalists, because that is largely the case, have an opportunity to get back to work – along with the approx. 800,000 who are in working age — and not only become a crime problem and a challenge in relation to public budgets, not least in view of their potential human resources. When it comes to minimizing or not responding from October, my interpellation and response are based on the reactions and attitudes of the environments involved. Several of them perceive the answer as a blow to their faces when they try to find out that this has to be taken seriously. Of all the possible signals that can be given to young people, that was not the best thing. I am now recording that the Council of State has a clear position here today. We take note of that, and I assume that those who follow the debate will also be included. The main point is — when you talk about the next debate today — to include the work against cat in the overall work on drugs, because it has not been done. Cat work is not included in the work of enterprises or public authorities, health authorities, etc. There's simply silence about it. And then we call out when there's a man going crazy on the trick. Then we call for more police. We need that, but we also need a policy where this is viewed as part of the total problem in the group that we're dealing with. Right-wing understands that the Oslo police cannot give absolute priority to everything. It's not very strange, considering the total budgets for the whole country, where we now see it approaching a real cut of 80 million. kr the resources available to the police. The Oslo police have no investigative powers, and they lack resources. But I want to challenge the State Council a little bit on the cultural attitudes of the Oslo Police. Does the Council of State think combating this type of crime, not least with the people involved, is a matter of priority in the Oslo Police? And there are good enough warning routines to deal with, for example: Child protection when young people are seen to fall outside the scope of parental abuse? In terms of international pressure and that it is difficult to obtain: Yes, it is clear, but it is the same as in terms of e.g. abuse of children. Then we have to start here at home, so at least we have some credibility when we get out of the world. But that these are challenges, I'll be the first to admit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e141	It is true that the inter-pellant and inter-pellant parties often use the opportunity both in the public vocabulary, including here in the Stortinget, to accuse the Government of giving priority to all the police's tasks. I just want to say, as a heartbreak, that it's a challenge for any government to want to tackle a lot of the crime that's out there, whether it's trafficking, it's organized crime, or it's everyday crime – which someone calls profit crime, which is dominating in many cities – etc. But I have to say, with all due respect, that when it comes to the issue of cat, it is important that we also have with us what kind of social setting this is going on in – perhaps especially here in Oslo – to be able to point out some alternative strategies when we think about prevention, which the interpellant is also affordable at. Some tasks may not be the most important when you look at what the police are going to put high pressure on. It is in the debate I think it is important that we also have with us how this substance actually works. We know that it's a type of substance that in many ways is very extensive in volume and quite woody to handle, and that, as far as I'm concerned, only has effect in more or less fresh condition. With all due respect to reporting, I believe that it is important at the same time to combat drug abuse that we have an opportunity to address the pharmacological effect of the various substances. This is where I think it is crucial when we are looking at what kind of action we are taking, among other things. cat, to know what kind of substance it is, and what kind of effect it actually has. I suppose at least that when Right wants us to give more priority to how we use the police's resources, we have to bear in mind how strong the drug is, how harmful it is to the individual, and that it is actually important that we slow down the use of all, the most powerful drugs. And when we look at the use of drugs under one whole, we have to look at the substances that actually recruit users for the strong drugs. And there's a cat, too. It makes it important that we focus on it. But we're not going to get so unsound in this important fight that we don't have with us how the different drugs work. I think the Oslo Police have a very conscious relationship with the question of the more cultural aspects of this. We also see that there are specific challenges in the fight. But I'm sure with the strategies of the Oslo police, cat will still be an area where you want to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e150	I think the interpellant goes too far when he criticises the Government for the lack of will in this matter. The cat problem has been known for a long time and has been criminalised 20 years ago. I can't see that the Right did anything to reduce this problem when they last sat in government. Let's do something about that. It was this government that took the initiative to find out the extent of this abuse and what measures should be taken. Last year, the Norwegian Institute for Growth, Welfare and Ageing, also called NOVA, was commissioned by the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs to monitor the use of cat in Norway. This research was done last year, and the result is now known. Researchers Tore Gundersen based this research on interviews with cat users, police, social services, Aetat and the drug network. He clearly states that this substance is widely used by Somalis, mostly adult men. The main environment for this is in Oslo, with two smaller environments in Bergen and Skien. The Somali environment is strongly polarized on the issue of the use of cat, and most of Oslo's 9000 Somalis are very against cat use. The Oslo environment is linked to a particular café. That's about. 350 solids in the environment, 200 of which are major consumers of cat. The extent of use is known, based on research in England. A large consumer of cat risks sleeping problems. The substance may cause sadness and depression. And if there are complex problems from the past, such as unemployment, economic problems or housing problems, the drug can quickly trigger psychosis with hallucinations and strong paranoid traits. It is already known that some men in the Somali environment have past war experience and that many are unemployed. Therefore, they are at risk of causing severe psychosis by the use of cat. The research into NOVA also points out that some people use this substance as a mere self-medication. So it's obvious that you have to do something about this problem, but we don't think the Right solution would be particularly successful. The right-hand solution is known to hunt prostitutes, drug addicts and beggars away from areas where ordinary people travel. Out of sight, out of mind, is the way of thinking. It would have been interesting to get a real answer from the Right on where they've been going to hunt them they think doesn't fit into the cityscape. The conclusion of the NOVA report is that no specific catalogical care should be established, but that the relevant public agencies and bodies should take the catalogical perspective into account in their work. This means that employment, education and leisure activities in this environment should be targeted and a mental health service available and not least known to this group must be provided. This means that the total instrument, from state to municipality, has to deal with this problem. What work has started, but needs to be intensified.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e163	It's an important issue this interpellation is about – also the interpellation we're going to have afterwards. We know that cat is a prohibited drug, but we have a big challenge in terms of the Somali environment and those who use cat. It's a substance that may be legal and quite common to use in the country from which they come, and they use it instead of alcohol, as a beverage. We know that all drugs are harmful, and that abuse of a drug can lead to many problems and tragic actions. It is important to focus on this issue in terms of prevention that information is given to the environments that use it. Not least, it is important that Customs has the necessary resources to enable them to seize our borders. What we need to focus on, as the Progress Party sees it, is to stop all the introduction of illicit drugs, and to promote information and prevention in the environments involved here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e172	It is commendable that this debate is raised in the country's parliament. Unfortunately, the matter has not received the attention it deserves, and should have been given too much time back. It is very commendable that politicians engage in the matter, including politicians from the Right. However, it is a policy trend that we forget history – either we forget, or we choose, not to take it with us. The environment has long asked for an involvement in this matter. The earliest document I have been able to track down is a question that was asked in Oslo City Council from SV, where we asked the then Health and Social Agency, Erling Lae from the Right, to look at the matter and inform the City Council of what the problem was, and how it could be resolved. The question was asked in 2000. In May 2002, I invited the then Minister of Justice, Odd Einar Dørum, to intervene and clear up the matter. I asked him to intervene because the police said straight out: this is a matter we do not prioritize. That's what they said over and over again. Finally, I was encouraged – and challenged – by the Minister of Justice to intervene. It was at a time when the turnover and use took place approx. 200 meters from the headquarters of Oslo Police District. The fact that we are discussing the matter again today in the country's parliament means that, as I said, the matter has not received the attention it deserves. In between, the Right has been in government for four years. The fact that we are again discussing, and that we are about where we were in 2000, shows that unfortunately, the Right has not done the job that they are asking us to do today. This government is going to do this job, but it's important to take history with it, otherwise it's going to be -- we can say -- a little solved. We're glad that it's now being applied for, and asking for, commitment. The absence of efforts during these five, six, seven years has caused the environment to ask for help over and over again, and even made the claim that the police and other authorities are not doing anything because this is only about black youth and black men. The claim is that if it had been white youth, political Norway would have put in other types of effort. I will not support that claim, but political Norway and multicultural Norway cannot afford to have many such claims on their way. We have to clean this up, and it's going to be possible. I don't have to repeat all the issues related to the abuse, but I want to mention the situation of women. When men abuse this — for there are men who use it — they leave themselves out of the family, leaving the economy, the education of children, homework and the follow-up of the children and the family to women. Unfortunately, many of these women don't have education with them before, and then they get even bigger and heavier problems to solve. It makes these women have a very difficult life. The environment, as I have said, has almost asked for help on its knees. No later than one year ago, Somali Velferdsforening went out and asked for help. This means that there are cooperative environments on the part of minorities. It is now up to the authorities to do their job. The conditions allow us to be able to combat this evil.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e183	To start where the last speaker ended: we know that there are many women, not least with Somali background, who sit at home with their children and wait for the father to come home, because unfortunately he often rushes on the drug cat – and he does it every day. He's out of work, and the majority of the family's scarce income is spent on cat. Many Somali women look dark in the future, because there are few incentives, which were also in the interpellant, on the part of society that can help to achieve abstinence. Yes, maybe it's around that if the husband had been white and rushed on cannabis or on cannabis, there might have been some hope. From the Christian People's Party we see, like the interpellant – and I also perceived the Minister of Justice there – with concern for the many problems caused by the use of cat. This is particularly true of the Somali population in Norway. The use of cat is therefore also a major social problem for the families affected. And it's a major integrational challenge, which concerns both adults and children, in this context. In the same way, it's also a criminal issue, because it's a prohibited drug that we're talking about here, that's being traded and used to a relatively large extent. Somali spokespersons have said that cat is in the process of returning an entire ethnic group, both economically and socially. This opinion is supported by data on, inter alia: low professional participation among the Somali population. There is reason to be concerned especially about children growing up in families where the abuse of cat is a fact. Children need parents who prepare for them, who can help interpret the many facets of society and who can be advisers to them. Unfortunately, that is often not the case in the family situations we are talking about here. The challenges for some minors are also great. This may, for some, be based on very difficult family conditions as a result of the misuse of cat. It is also important for this reason that a work is being undertaken to combat the use of this drug, including by police. So here we have a job to do. Therefore, it is important that this interpellation has come. I registered that the Minister of Justice said that in connection with the escalating plan for the drug field, the Government will also promote its proposals, so that we can meet the unfortunate developments pointed out in the interpellation. We'll meet them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e198	With regard to my and the Left's approach to the matter, I shall deal with the factual fundamentals common to most of the inter-pellant's posts and the Council's replies. Because in that basic tone, there were two elements, firstly, that we are facing a significant integration policy case, and secondly, criminal policy. Then I have to reserve myself against any description that suggests that the Somali environment is something you have not tried to deal with in Norway. It has actually been, but it has been quite demanding and challenging. But I think the description given today by cat hits. And when I think about it, it's almost like reading a historical story about the establishment of the Oslo Indremition in the Christiania of the 1860s, when the flat-filling rode the city so strongly that one could wonder who went straight and managed to live a normal life. It's obvious that in many ways cat strikes equally destructively into large parts of the Somali environment. I've been with the police myself – for the police tests, and I've been trying for a long time to save young people, get young people out and give them a new chance. I am absolutely convinced that if this is to be approached, one must think as broadly as both the inter-pellant and the Council of State did in terms of integration policy. It's about how you get received when you come to the country. It was also the inter-pellant and the state councils inside. It is a matter of cooperation between NAV, the school authorities and all the good forces, and not least the outreach work of the police in terms of knowledge of individuals. So what we're probably looking for is some shiny examples that allow you to show a way away and away. And I have a considerable sense, through my capital experience, that many from Somalia love driving a car – and they're good at it too. Some of the most glittering taxi drivers I'm exposed to, and who know where to find them, have such a background. It is obvious that finding out what tends people in a way that makes it good is the strategy, but it requires an interaction between many – government agencies, but also municipal bodies in Oslo. As far as criminal policy is concerned, it boils down in a city like Oslo in practice to what the status, the position and the allocation of resources are in what we call the law service of the police. Anyone who has been with the police for a few years – I have been doing that since the early 1990s – knows that the law enforcement service is always a budget balancing post. When everything else is going to be solved, that's what you're taking from it. This means that many of the everyday people who are actually going to be with them keep an eye on them, make sure that they are in contact, do good contact work — which is also preventative — often live in the situation that one day they are so many, another day they are so few. Clearly, it creates quite significant challenges. It's a question that worries me, and I'd like to come back another time. But I would now like to emphasize just how important it is that, in the context of the situation of the Oslo Police – I would ask the Council of State to look at it – there is certainty, not in detail, not in terms of priorities, but in terms of the situation of the public services. They're police street workers. It is those who must meet the expectations of the citizens of this city and who politicians will express differently. If that effort group is small, they are hard pressed between all kinds of expectations, whether it's the fight against everyday crime, the fight against violence in the street, or the fight on the topic we're talking about now. Traveling this theme doesn't mean that I'm trying to draw attention away from what I think has been the main point of view of both the interpellant and the Council of State, namely that more people have to go to work here, and they have to get a good interaction. And at best, when we succeed, we often get those situations created in Norway. But I have to admit that throughout all the years I've been involved in politics, it has all been people from Somalia who represent one of the greatest challenges we have on integration at all. They come from a society that is literally not a state, they come from a society that literally has no written administration, and they come to Norway with the culture that is also portrayed here today. We're going to accept people in a proper way. There is no doubt that it presents Norwegian health workers, social workers, schoolmen and policemen with enormous challenges. That's why we're going to have to have the humility to it when we take it up, that we recognize that it's complex. But then we're also going to agree with what I think has been the basic tone of both the interpellant and in the answer from the Council of State, that then we get to right our backs and rust up and start going those steps, so that we break the vicious circle. Because there's no doubt that this is going to continue, there's going to be a workshop that's unacceptable in this city. But then there is integration policy and criminal policy, and it has to be met in an age-old way. I think both the inter-pellant and the state councils made good sense and good progress in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e217	It's true, as the interpellant said, that I had an interview with me on this case in the evening post in the middle of December. I also sent a question to the Minister of Justice at the time, but it was drawn to the advantage that we were given the opportunity to have a wider debate here. I think it's important to have as a starting point that the discussion about how strong a drug effect cat has, really isn't the big deal here. The important thing is that this drug affects an entire environment in a very special way. All the Somali organizations I know, and have spoken to, say quite unanimously that up to 70 pst. of Somali men chew this substance, and that 40 pst. they abuse it to a great extent. They say that if you take it down to those who are out driving, who are in a situation where they sleep little, eat little, can be homeless, etc., it is estimated that it is approx. 20 pst. by Somali men. So there's no doubt that this has a scale and a drama in its spread and how it turns out for the individual that's very special. This leads, for example, to: Thomas Breen mentioned, health problems such as mental illness, which leads to health problems such as loss of teeth — many people have noticed the yellow tooth color they get from chewing this substance steadily. It seems that the young people in these families are totally lacking role models. We've also seen dangerous numbers in terms of how many Somali youths complete high school. For boys in the Somali environment, it has been up to 60-70 pst. non-response – slightly lower, about 50 pst., for the girls. So we have to be aware that this drug creates a serious social problem. That's what's essentially here, not the analysis of how much there's going to be, how much of a drug effect there is. We have also seen that some of the Somali youth have gone on in drug use — from cat — so that they frequent the environment down at Akerselva, which uses different more serious drugs. So there's no doubt about the seriousness and the speciality of this problem. It also affects neighbourhoods, living environments, in Oslo, in such a way that when those who have been inside the city and abused this drug come out into the neighbourhoods, where family violence, family resolution, insecurity, obviously affects the families that are directly affected, but also across the rise and the whole block – and creates a disturbance. There is a significant social problem. I think it's right to say that society has neglected this problem for too long. It has not been taken seriously enough. For example, residents in the strike down in Greenland have constantly brought up with me that it is openly selling, open-source sales, in line of sight, up to the police house in Greenland. Of course, they are provoked by it. I have asked myself in the Health East and in the Rusmitteletaten in Oslo municipality about what kind of treatment you have, and how you work towards this group. I do not think I have received a convincing answer. It has often been shown the same thing, that it is not a long weaning time, and it is about getting them to work. However, people who have not slept for a long time, who have eaten to a small extent and who are in poor physical/psychic conditions, have difficulties in being able to be distributed to a labour market — hence also the high unemployment rate and the high number of social clients in that group. So I don't think the answers from the treatment site have been convincing either. I think there's a need for a mapping. The development of more specific treatment pathways and treatment arrangements is needed. For my part, as a health policy spokesman for the Workers' Party here at Stortinget, I would like to take the initiative of the Department for monitoring, for work on a more systematic treatment effort. I believe that the municipality of Oslo at the Rusmitteletaten, Health East, NAV, the police and Somali organisations should join forces on a survey, a process in which a plan is drawn up for how to work towards this Somali environment. There are now 18,000 Somalis in Norway. The number is increasing. It is important that we do not develop differences in this way that too many people here fall out because of this particular drug use.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e235	I believe that both this discussion in the Chamber here now and what has become apparent about cat abuse in Norway shows that this has been an underestimated problem. After all, Jan Bøhler gave the percentage of that, that's 70 pst. in fact, adult Somali men are, in part, heavy addicts of cat. When you also think about what kind of role models these men are for new generations, we realize that the problem is really much bigger, and not isolated to the 70 pst. who are, in fact, addicts. Before Christmas, I asked several Somali women for help. They asked for moral support, but they also asked for help for labour market measures and for better health follow-up. And not least, they were concerned about how Somali men's cat abuse devastated and split the family and made it not the safe frame around the growth of their children. More people here have said that the abuse leads to a loss of working capacity. Unemployment again leads to increased abuse. It's at all a very negative circle that it's of the utmost importance that we manage to meet now, so that we can reverse this development. In the same meeting that we had with these Somali women, they were also concerned that there is now a lot of evidence in Somalia that there is a change in attitude regarding the use of cat, and that the acceptance there for the use of this substance is at full speed down. They were concerned that Norwegian society must also approach this in such a way that there is no doubt that this is a substance that is not to be used – for many good reasons, it is explained here – and that the consequences of its use are as significant as they are. As many have encountered, this is a criminal policy problem, but it is, to a very large extent, an integration problem. I think we have a great and common interest in meeting this in an even more offensive way. That may have been done, but we just have to note that we are very close to the goal. Then it is important that we bet on a broad front, that we give support and backing to these women, who want to get involved, and that we also try to find a way to involve them in this work, so that they get the support they need to be a support for their men. It can be an important resource in the fight against cat abuse in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e248	The representative of Bøhler said it was quite right that we cannot discuss a laboratory that tests how strong, possibly how weak this substance is. We have to look at the people involved and what the effect of cat is. If you talk to the people you're talking to, and if you're in the environment you're talking about, there's no particular doubt about what the effect is. We have a similar debate, for example. on doping. People are seen to be big and strong, but eventually quite weak, simply because they have mental problems, most likely – perhaps not legally likely – because of doping abuse. Otherwise, the Minister of Justice's armory, the representative of Breen, was at the heart of something, namely the question of work and inclusion, which I also challenged in my opening post. It is whether the Government will signal a more positive attitude towards providing funding for pilot projects such as the European Environment Agency. MiA, Mangfold in Working Life, has applied for. Jan Bøhler was concerned that he did not have the impression that the drug scene and others were completely open to some of the initiatives that came, and this is a good example of it. I hope that the representative Jan Bøhler, who actually answered positively all the questions I had to the Council of State, also answered in a way on behalf of the Government. It remains to be seen, but I have a good hope that Jan Bøhler will also arrive in the majority government. So to SV and right and what we've done and haven't done. I think that on this issue, like very many other issues that are about minorities and people who are in minorities, there is a tendency to be so that party politics is not always well suited. I think those who are genuinely concerned about the issues it is about should cooperate as much as they can. I also see that this debate has shown that there is a cross-political commitment to this subject which I believe we should continue, and for example. use the various professional committees that sit here on Stortinget. We should do more of that. There's a lot of party tactics going on. This is one of the questions where we shouldn't run party tactics. In the end, the claim that right-wing fighters are prostitutes and beggars has nothing to do with this debate at all. I don't feel any special need to comment on it, except that the Right has proposed far more funds for both rehabilitation and mental health, and also has a poverty package of 125 million. kr higher than the Government framework. I feel in a way that you want to start a debate that has nothing to do with the cat problem. I think it has been a positive debate. Governments have been open. Most of them have been. Now I hope that we can jointly get a leverage for the groups that this applies, because, as SV pointed out here, this has been repeatedly taken up by individual representatives from different parties. The question now is whether all the parties in cooperation are actually able to focus on it and get it integrated into the overall work on drugs in the way it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e261	Then the interpellation debate in case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e279	After I promoted this interpellation, the subsequent events have shown that it might have even greater relevance than I thought. In the newspaper Our Country last Friday was one of the headlines «Fairy Big Cities on the Weekends». They have gone through the violence situation in all the larger cities, and it turns out that on average, the violence has increased by about 25 pst. the last year. All cities say that there is a clear link between alcohol abuse, usually in relation to outdoors, and the increased use of violence. That is why we need to change the policy. We have to make sure that our big cities become safe meeting places. We can't live with a situation where many feel insecure, or actually choose not to go to the city center of fear of violence. As a society, we cannot accept that the majority's freedom and life-exploitation are limited by the fact that a minority makes trouble and acts threateningly. Therefore, it is time to take more measures to restore cities as safe meeting places. Society must focus its efforts on preventing crime. Police, restrictions and sanctions can never only be a good response to the challenges of order and crime facing our big cities today. That is why this must be widely attacked. In the last ten years there has been an increase of 30 pst. in the number of grants in this country. The increase has occurred in all counties. Alcohol consumption has increased by 33 pst. There is no doubt that increased availability of alcohol and extended donation times is confirmed by all police officers interviewed in the newspaper I referred to, a strong reason why there are major public order problems in some of the major cities today. For my own part and from the city that I represent, I regret to say that we have a majority in Oslo City Council that does not really take on board the fact that there is a significant link between violence and alcohol and gift policy. Even when the Oslo police say that they actually see a need for a reduction in the number of tipping points in parts of the Oslo center, they cross their arms and are silent. It's almost incredible that the majority of Oslo City Council can sit still and watch such a development. I know that in Oslo City Council there is at every moment an opportunity to change course – and had to do so, for the sake of the security of this city. We in the Christian People's Party support the fact that the number of places of gift should be reduced by 25 pst. in specific areas of violence and unrest, not least when the police themselves consider this to be necessary. I believe that in such areas the exemption from the normal working time of the alcohol law should be strictly practised. Consideration should also be given to whether the municipality should introduce differentiated closure times for the tipping points, so as to avoid unfortunate accumulations of people who unfortunately often generate night-time violence. Police and social services shall deliver their opinion before the local government — or as in, for example: Oslo, City Council – decide on a grant application. However, it is not the case that municipalities are obliged to pay more attention to their opinions than to the opinions of all other bodies — despite the fact that, for example: the police should be particularly competent to assess the safety and order aspects of the case. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, municipalities should not be allowed to grant grants in cases where the police do not advise on the basis of clear political judgements. We also know that overdrafting and giving of minors occur to a significant extent. Unfortunately, the local authorities' control of the tipping points does not capture this to a small extent. This is also problematic in terms of violence and crime. It is appropriate to ask questions as to whether such intervention should be granted greater access to the donor supervisors than is currently the case. The same could apply to the police. That is why we in the Christian People's Party have come to that point that we should consider allowing control of shops and outdoors, for example. sells or donates to minors by testing young people below the age limit whether they can actually get alcohol. We know that there are non-governmental organisations that have done this, but such evidence cannot be used in any subsequent case on the waiver of grant. Unfortunately, the preliminary outcome of the police reform is less visible police, although the reform has been welcomed in other areas. Unfortunately, expectations about the release of resources for better public contact and faster and more extensive processing have not been met to the extent desired. The resources released — where they have arrived — have been largely eaten up by wage increases and an agreement for a fifth holiday week. In addition, much of the police work is more resource-intensive than in the past. We also know that international crime requires its own. In Oslo now the situation is that we have vacant positions that we should have had in favor of, so that people can feel an increased level of security. It is a fact that patrolling police in the streets provide security and have a preventive effect. So it should be a common political issue to strengthen the police's ability to exercise this kind of presence and thus increase the level of security. I would also like to say that there might be a question of whether the police's own measurement parameters should be changed to also focus more on prevention and security-creating work. Perhaps there is also a question of whether police training should be more differentiated in order to meet the different needs of police action in a better way than we can do today. I am sure that the chronicle that stood in the evening post a few days ago, which was written by Bjarne Hjeltnes, has made an impression on more than the undersigned. His 18-year-old son died in the summer of 2005 after being knocked down on the street in this town. The offender was sentenced to one and a half years of unconditional imprisonment and one year of conditional imprisonment. Bjarne Hjeltnes has expressed in his thought-provoking chronicle how difficult it is for him to reconcile with what he perceives as a very low punishment for the Prosecuting others for violence is a serious breach of integrity. Such abuses may cause physical damage and death, but may also lead to long-term anxiety and insecurity. It was with this in mind that a unanimous judiciary in the setting of a new general part of the penal code explicitly stated that, among other things, the level of punishment was high. acts of violence had to be lifted. When such a unique signal is given in the setting of a legal case, I believe that both the prosecution and the court are obliged to follow up. Such an explicit signal is undoubtedly more important than the criminal justice practice itself. Although, of course, as a representative of the magistrate, I am not going to go into the court's judicial activities, it must be allowed to ask a few questions in some individual cases and ask whether the Storting's explicit message to raise the penalty level in cases relating to the type of serious integrity violations has actually been met. Crime can be prevented in many ways and must be widely attacked. The voluntary organisations working in crime prevention can be strengthened. It is also possible to ensure that cities and residential areas are designed so that there are open and bright streets and meeting places and get dark passages and unlit places of residence. This is therefore an area in which city planners and planning authorities should also look closely. I am sure the Minister of Justice is also committed to ensuring the security of our cities. I am therefore very interested in hearing what opportunities the Minister of Justice sees for, so that we can once again experience that the centre of our larger cities can be a safe place for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e314	I thank you for a very good interpellation, and I have to say it so simple that I think I could stand in for every word of the interpellant's posts here. We very much agree on this. The reason why this is an incredibly important interpellation is that it promises to look at how we are going to fight very serious crime in many different kinds of fields. First of all, over the last four to five years, we are now seeing a rather joyful decline in profit crime in Norway, but this is what the interpellant has been talking about: it is left for the type of crime that he here points to – the crime of violence, especially in the urban areas. In this way, there is a criminal policy challenge that we need to intervene more strongly, not only in order to prevent, but also in order to respond. This gives us an opportunity to assess whether, in the context of police resource use, the focus can be shifted from what has been done in the past, which may have been directed towards the sizes that are now actually falling, and on this – not only to investigating matters, but also to driving prevention. The second element that, in the opinion of the Government, this interpellation is of particular importance in a criminal and social policy perspective is the raising of the question of freedom and the need for human freedom, and what to really put in the quest for freedom. For too long, we have connected freedom to the ability of commercial forces to establish themselves and to operate undisturbed from the intervention of public Norway. Here we choose to look at freedom based on how people are really affected by a social evil, and point to the restriction of freedom that many people actually get, whether you are directly exposed to violence, or you are in a situation where you actually don't dare to participate in public life and be out in the streets because you fear the consequences of the business that happens out there, especially at night. The third thing I want to point out is that, in general, it must be much better that we build a society that has little crime and – I kept saying – limit control authority and police as effectively as possible, and that helps us to have fewer criminal policy challenges and events than we still have to repair afterwards when the criminal act has happened. It is therefore up to the Government and the Storting to focus on the consequences of practical implementation, inter alia. In the United Kingdom, the number of drugrelated deaths among drug users in the EU increased by about half the number of drug users in the EU. The relationship we see between alcohol use and violence is one of the best documented links we have in the field of crime, both through national and international research. It has been throughout history in time; we have good studies showing progress in time. We also have good surveys from countries other than Norway. We see that as well as the rise in violent crime is closely related to the consumption of alcohol, it is not linked to what we traditionally believe to be addicts, but it is largely dependent on total consumption in society. Those who expose others to violence are often people who characterize themselves as moderate users of, among other things. alcohol. The increase in violent crime as the number of nightlife scenes increases is unmistakable. This, therefore, is not an eye-catching knowledge, rather a cross-sectional one. If a person wants to reduce the crime of violence, the natural consequence of such knowledge is to look at the practice that is being pursued locally and for which we also have a central responsibility through the framework provided. The Minister of Health and Health is responsible for the Law of the State on Alcohol, and this law gives municipalities great freedom to pursue the policy they want. But freedom is also accompanied by responsibility to provide freedom for those whom we may not bring forward only when we debate freedom. The Alcohol Act gives municipalities a unique opportunity to plan how they want the availability of alcohol in their municipality. This could be one of the main prevention instruments of the municipality, and the municipalities that are constantly failing in relation to precisely preventing this arena should be subject to clear requirements, in particular when they are high on the road in relation to requiring more police resources. The Minister of Health and Health and I would like to encourage municipalities to see the use of alcohol law instruments in conjunction with other instruments to prevent drug problems, including the prevention of violence. This has been facilitated by the development by the Directorate-General for Social and Health of a guide for the development of comprehensive drug policy plans. I would encourage the municipalities to use this to look at the funding policy in an overall perspective, and to further involve the police in this work. Local cooperation between municipalities and the police on crime and drug prevention is a cooperation The Government strongly encourages. I use every opportunity when we discuss criminal policy challenges out there, to travel the themes that the interpellant is now doing. I think it's important that we do that, just to get, among other things. municipal politicians to perceive the seriousness of the situation. Already today, the municipality shall submit to the police all applications for sales and donations for an opinion before a decision is taken. Opinions may also be obtained from the tax and tax authorities. Furthermore, the reputation of persons with a significant influence on the operation of the business shall be checked. This is a good system, which ensures that the municipality can make its decision on the best possible basis of knowledge. It is not the case that everyone has to be treated equally in the field of alcohol policy. If you have a factual reason to discriminate, if you don't get a permit and someone else doesn't, because you don't want there to be a lot of tips – for example. in Rosenkrantz’s street – you have full access to it. Local politicians must dry up, because it is vital if we are to be able to bring down the crime of violence. The scheme facilitates good cooperation between different public authorities and ensures that the municipalities make their decisions after the best information is available. If the municipality has a conscious relationship with its funding policy and, in the preparation of the drug policy action plan, has developed guidelines for this policy — based on input — it will facilitate the orderly and predictable processing of applications for funding. The representative Syversen is drawing up the situation in Oslo in his interpellation. That's good. The municipality of Oslo has informed me that it does so per year. 24 November last year there were 1,066 donations and 358 sales appropriations, sales of beer in grocery stores, in Oslo. In addition, there were 547 tipping points in the center with an opening time of until. 03.30 p.m. and donate time until 3 p.m. 03, a number that also includes between 65 and 70 boats with a hamlet. It is a myth that Norway is so restrictive in this area. We have gradually become one of the most liberal countries in this kind of policy, not only in terms of giving time, but also in terms of giving per. the population. The police have a responsibility to combat the crime of violence. However, this is a responsibility not only for the police but also for the Municipality of Oslo. Oslo police districts have for a longer time, even on the initiative of the undersigned, pointed out the problem of the densification of outpatients, among other things. in parts of Kirkegata and Rosenkrantz’s Gate. I've been sailing there recently, and there are some aspects of what the criminal policy debate should really be like when it comes to what we're going to do here in Oslo. The combination of relatively narrow streets and many intoxicated persons on their way to or from the public places often leads to violent episodes that quickly come out of control. The number of persons involved or involved in such events is disproportionate. I hope for a good cooperation between the police and the municipality in terms of the desire to reduce the number of rape episodes. I hope that the police's statements, in the context in which they come, are now given greater emphasis in the fight for reduced violence. I have been informed by the Police Directorate that the work of the Oslo Police Department is continuously focused on combating violent crime in the centre of Oslo. The visible patrol is reinforced, and patrols are deployed in fixed positions in the most heavily loaded areas. The centre of police station is actively following up points in the center that are plagued with violence and disorder, with particular emphasis on the conditions in Rosenkrantz’s street. The situation is very resource-intensive for the police. Unfortunately, with the extensive presence needed in the Oslo Centre, fewer police patrols will be available in other parts of Oslo for periods. It is the police’s opinion that in the future too, efforts will have to be concentrated in those parts of the Oslo Centre where the densification of service sites is high. Problem-oriented police work as a general, knowledge-driven method of work is part of the work of the Centre Police Station against violence and unrest, and as part of this effort, a report has been prepared on the violence in Rosenkrantz’s Gate in Oslo. That report shall be used actively, both internally and in the dialogue with police cooperation partners. My speech is running out of time. I have some suggestions for further action. I'll come back to it in my follow-up post.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e347	There is not much disagreement between the undersigned and the Minister of Justice as to the overall assessments of what is needed to create a safer city. There could be an interesting philosophical debate about what the concept of freedom really involves, and for whom. I think it fits well into the very kind of debate we have here today. I must nevertheless record that the Minister of Justice, at least as far as the more concrete challenges are concerned, will continue to ask and ask that the municipalities listen to the police and that they see the alcohol policy in a wider context. As one who is also concerned with municipal autonomy, I basically agree with that. At least I have come to the conclusion that, in terms of funding policy, there should be some tighter leads than the law has today. Since the Minister of Justice has not answered all the challenges, will I repeat some of mine: Does the Minister of Justice agree that the police should be listened to more strongly than is the situation today in terms of donations? And in what way does he mean that it should happen? The Minister of Justice, as a representative of the Government, believes that the alcohol law has the necessary instruments, including: with regard to the withdrawal of grant appropriations, including on-the-spot, where the relevant authorities see that this is not proportionate to the allocation granted and has certain criteria to be followed? Does the Minister of Justice also agree that there is still a need to strengthen the visibility of the Oslo police force in the centre of Oslo? I fully agree that a consequence of the need to use resources here is that the metropolitan areas of Oslo actually get less police resources than they could otherwise have. It may affect the fight against recriminalism that we are otherwise engaged in in in other contexts. And does the Minister of Justice think that it is satisfactory with as many vacations as the Oslo police are actually operating with? I'm glad of the Minister of Justice's commitment. I appreciate his appeal to Oslo City Board. I am also pleased that the leader of the Oslo Workers' Party is present here and, hopefully, will participate in the debate, because it is clear that his party can also play a key role in turning the policy around in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e358	I was in my main post about the report that is now available regarding the situation we have in Oslo. I just want to say that the specific mapping that has been done there shows that approx. 60 pst. the violence in Rosenkrantz’s street is within the control sphere of the yard, i.e. not in the street. This responsibility is more closely linked to the alcohol policy pursued, but also to the practice of the outside area. So I believe that the interpellant has a major point in his post, where he challenges me as to how we're going to get more effect from the police's statements, because it's quite clear that the Oslo police have almost asked for fewer outlets and a tightening of the opening hours. I believe it is essential that not only local authorities, but also those of us who hold a criminal policy debate, now take this seriously on the agenda, so that the links that are there are clear. It is a clear political responsibility that we as political leaders and practitioners have. I'm ready to take that. I also believe that we have done so for a long time. I give tribute to the interpellant for having raised the debate. Then the interpellant also asks for a look at new measurement parameters for the police. I think we should do that. We need to find suitable ways to measure the effectiveness of the police with objectives other than what we have today. We're working on that. The same applies to the education issue that was raised. Then I believe it is important that we also make it very clear that the proposals that have now come, among other things. from the Right and the Advance Party, is totally unacceptable if we are to bring down crime in society, proposals from the Oslo Progress Party, among others. Walk around the clock, and suggestions to sell both wine and spirits in all grocery stores. It would create enormous challenges for us in terms of criminal policy, by having to create a good profile in many ways, given the developments some political parties want in this field. I believe it is absolutely essential that we strengthen the alcohol policy instruments we already have, including: The activities of the monopoly on wine, issues relating to charging policies and also other mechanisms outside the scope of the grant provisions. Then we come to the question of how to put more emphasis on police statements. I mean we're going to go into it. The government will look at the provisions we have regarding police statements. But at the same time I am aware that here we have to take care of the local maritime administration. I think it's important. I believe that what the government is now doing in the process of setting up police councils is important in this context, where local politicians and the police meet for a closer contact than receiving a hearing opinion, and where one can just discuss such things, where the police's opinions can be more effective. So I believe it is certainly important that we continue to strengthen the local economy. After all, the Municipality of Oslo has strengthened its budgets by nearly NOK 2 billion. In fact, some of this also has to go to traditional prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e375	I fully agree with the description given by the representative Syversen of the situation, especially in the capital, and I am very pleased that he has taken the initiative in this debate. It is important that everyone should have the right and the opportunity to travel safely into the Oslo Centre, go to the theatre, go to the cinema, take a walk out afterwards, and feel that you are at home, here you move safely and comfortably. Those of us who may have been out traveling a little bit, will have seen that there are few cities that can be compared with the Oslo Center in terms of the situation on the weekends at night. I guess some of us have been in a city like New York, where it's mostly quiet in the 23-24s. In many other cities we see that there are nightclubs, but they have age limits and membership, and there are few that frequent these places. The situation we have in the centre of Oslo, with at least up to 550 outdoors in the inner city – many of them up late, until the 03.30s – is completely unique. This creates a situation that not only affects those who live directly in these places but also affects large youth groups. It will be an ideal, unfortunately, to travel to the city from the cities of the city, Oslo's outskirts and neighboring counties in the evening and at night during the weekends to see where you can get in. There's a kind of drinking culture, where you're looking for which outdoors are so-called nice. This is why the current situation in Oslo Centre puts traces in large youth groups. Studies at least indicate that there is a good part of them that manages to get to the outdoors. In a country-wide survey, approximately one third of young people, aged 13-17, who receive outpatient donations. Sirus, the State Institute for Drug Research, had a project on this for the Health and Social Directorate in a large city. They thought, based on the way they conducted the study, that up to 80 pst. Of the people who were already full, they got overlap, and up to 40-50 pst. by those who were on the border to be minors, they received a service without being asked for a licence. A lot indicates that we have a situation that is bad in this area. One of the things that I think we need is more frequent control of immediate reactions when there are obvious breaches of the rules. I have asked the Minister of Justice a question about this, so we will come back to the later in this Chamber as well. I think it is important that you can react immediately when there is an obvious breach of the law, because otherwise it might be speculated that you can draw it out indefinitely with written warnings and processing around, when you get reactions to breaches of the rules. In many other areas, we have immediate reactions when it's obvious and easy to see that the rules are breaking. I also believe that we need a new policy, especially in Oslo, in this area. The idea of just keeping us open longer and longer, then it spreads when people get drunk out on the street, and we get smaller problems in the center, have been tried for too long. It has only led young people and others to enter the city even later, drink even longer, and are even fuller – those who act this way – when they get out of the bars. We have seen, as the Minister of Justice said, that both the Oslo Progress Party and the Right are proposing to go even further with the same policy towards 24-hour service, as we heard last weekend. Also the Right has said that they want to go in the direction of longer opening times. We have heard that beer sales throughout the day have been discussed earlier here in the hall before New Year. That was one of the proposals the same parties agreed for then. I think we need a reverse operation on the city council in Oslo. We are committed to working with the Christian People's Party in order to achieve the goal of reducing the number of consecrations with the proposal mentioned by the representative Syversen, but we also need other measures, which I hope we can put all the forces around now, but even more fully after the municipal elections to the autumn. One of the measures, which we also need, is attractive alternatives for young people in the centre, i.e. drug-free, attractive alternatives. Here, the state and the municipality, through grants from the big city funds, should go in to establish something properly, which allows young people to apply instead of walking around restlessly and trying to get into places where they shouldn't be. We also need more police presence, we need training of doorkeepers, we need more guards in the cab queues, etc. What I want to ask the Government to do in connection with the Capital Message, which is to be presented in May, as far as I know, is to work thoroughly on this with security in the capital. It is important for the whole country how the city appears, it is an important signal for Norway as a nation that we get cleaned up in the situation that is now at night in the capital center of the weekends. I hope the government will get into this properly in the capital message.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e395	I have recorded that the Syverse has a strong commitment in this area, and I have several times before heard him address the issue he is addressing in the interpellation. I'd like to praise him for that, because it's an engagement you can see that too few have, and how powerful the counterclaims are. We are looking at the first page of the Daily Today’s title “Death after Ferry Filling”. Two young people are described who, in an intoxicated state, lost their lives after attaching to one of the ferries. A few days ago there was a debate on television, after a media look-up, related to child protection and a death after the use of drugs in an institution for the protection of children. That's about. In some sense, 26 000 children taken care of by child protection either at home, in foster homes, or by other means require action. There is a total of half a million children in Norway — a very high number. It's probably also that far more than the 26 000 had needed help, but it's hidden in the home what's going on. What we know is that very many of the problems related to children and young people, and difficulties related to growing-up conditions, often due to the use of drugs in adults, caregivers and parents. Instead, there was an interpellation about the use of cat, and it's right to focus on. It is also right to focus on the use of drugs, but what often does not appear in that type of debate is that there is no drug use in Norway that is the main problem related to problems that children and young people experience during their childhood; it is the use of alcohol by parents. It is often that what we ourselves have a relatively liberal relationship to, we tend to minimize the adverse effects of. It is quite typical to do so when it comes to the marketing of alcohol. After all, we see how, even in this Chamber, there is still room for a more liberal movement of alcohol, greater availability, open-ended shops that can sell alcohol and long-term outdoors, despite the fact that both the inter-pellant and the Minister of Justice have pointed out that there is good evidence that increased access leads to increased adverse effects. I myself was in a debate in Tabloid a few days ago, in which I debated with the Progress Party. After all, the promotion party is one of the top players in the field when the adverse effects have first occurred and calls for more resources, for it to be severely reduced, and for drastic action to be taken, but with a total decoupling of cause and effect. In this area, the causal link and efficacy are clearly evident. I think that, as role models, we should also take a greater responsibility than what we often do in relation to how children and young people feel that society is evolving. It's clear that as parents, as role models, we will also express how the next generation behaves. It's about us as politicians. I have previously stated that there are no particularly good factual reasons why politicians should have access to alcohol on weekdays during events when they are invited to various events. And I mean that. I would also like to challenge the Minister of Justice in that area. I would have appreciated it if there had been events under the direction of the Government that eventually became non-alcoholic. I experienced it myself when I met Dalai Lama in Daramsala in northern India, where every event in the week we were there was non-alcoholic. To the extent that someone wanted to buy something, there was, of course, access to it, but nothing that happened under the authority of public authorities had to do with alcohol. It is quite obvious that the culture that develops among young Buddhists in such a community is a culture where drug use is more cautious. It will be about drugs, but it will also be about alcohol. That's why I think a main message, which I perceive the interpellant has, is that there's a connection between cause and effect, and that as role models we also have to do something about it. There it is that, which actually the Advance Party of all, amazingly enough, has pointed out, that where my freedom begins, there ends yours. That means that we have to look at the concept of freedom based on criteria other than our own right to do exactly what we want, because it affects others in a very hard way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e410	There is little doubt that the violence we see in society is worrying. Lunta seems shorter, the threshold for resorting to violence has been lowered, and we must also admit that violence has become more brutal, and it has fatal consequences in the midst of it. So I'd like to say that it's a good thing, though, that the vast majority of us handle alcohol in a satisfactory way, but there are always exceptions. And it's among the exceptions that we also find figures in violent and criminal statistics that make it cause us to worry. The capital is in the process of becoming the city of camera surveillance, but I know there are a lot of politicians in this city who prefer more living police in the streets than more dead cameras on the walls. When there are now 180 unoccupied positions in the Oslo Police Department, it is quite obvious that there is a deterioration in the proximity and visibility of the day-to-day situation, and especially in situations where there is a need for the police to be heavy and clear. I am aware that the Municipality of Oslo – to use it as an example because it is specifically referred to – is now working closely with the police and the nightlife industry to look at new and more concrete measures to reduce and prevent nightlife violence and urban unrest. You want a safer center for everyone. None of the parties are or are going to see that the states that are in Oslo between are going to get caught and are going to meet people who are visiting the city. It is a recognition that there is an unfortunate accumulation of 18-year-olds who are also attracted to those who are under 18 years of age. And raising the age limit for a good part of the patios is among other things. of the measures now under consideration. Furthermore, it is also clear that it is important to consider tightening up the requirements on how the tipping points should behave in order to maintain their gift authorisation. The screening and the police must have specific points to check, and it must be that unprofessional sites that do not comply with the rules must be at risk of closure. It's a drastic tool. It's a lie. But it'll probably also have a significant uplifting effect if the rice behind the mirror is so powerful. People's experience of urban insecurity must be taken seriously. It is close to involving the evaluation of police reform – a reform that scores well on many points, but where it is still a fact that the public is calling for a more visible police force. You know that it gives security when you see and know that the police aren't far away about the situation. The police's ability to intervene quickly and effectively is in itself preventive. This is not a matter of more police alone, but also of effective peer control, of whether we can keep our city centres safe in the evening and night. Here’s my impression – I’ve also been a municipal politician – that most municipalities have a lot to do. I am thinking about the scope of controls, and I am also thinking that there must be a rapid impact when the rules of gift are broken. And then we have a big challenge for young people under the age of 18 to get alcohol and drugs, and to go to the center and use the streets like the parties when they don't get into the outdoors. I also believe that the police have an important job to do in terms of preventive work. I don't know if you do it in Oslo, but I hear from other places that you actually drive home young people who don't have anything to do in the city streets in late night hours. Then the representative Jan Bøhler talks about so-called nice outdoors, which let in young people under 18 years of age. Then my immediate reaction is that nice patios have to meet with bad reactions, which must lead to the withdrawal of the gift permit. There can be no question of anything but the need to provide a basis for the withdrawal of the appropriations. In its ultimate consequence, what we are now talking about, about quality of life, about poorer quality of life when we cannot travel in our urban centres without fear of violence. The initiative now taken by the Oslo City Council and in cooperation with the industry to clean up the nightlife business and to manage the industry is therefore extremely important. So I would say that I fully agree with the Minister of Justice that the police councils can be an important arena to raise these kinds of questions in a context where there are more around the table, where one can contribute together to a more positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e436	First, I'll give tribute to the interpellant to raise a fundamental and interesting debate. I think that even though there are shades in the views in this room, it's probably a common perception that the concerns the interpellant takes up are shared by all of us. Because it's probably the case if we're going to be honest with each other, that alcohol is a legitimate contaminant in this country. I have not seen anyone who has proposed a ban on it. That means we're going to live with it, but we're going to live with it in an acceptable way. It's the dilemma, it's the balance. I note that some of the speakers have been concerned about the approach of the Advance Party by making the alcohol more accessible. It is, of course, a wild policy, with the consequences it has. For us, alcohol is actually legal to enjoy. It's the abuse that worries us, and it's the abuse that should worry the other parties. I think, as others have also said, that most people in this country can actually handle alcohol in a sensible and sound way without affecting other people. That should be okay – at least it should be okay in my view. In terms of abuse and problems around the fact that people with gift permits use such a good thing to exploit others, of course, we're going to run a tough line there. It was just supposed to be missing! It's a fact that this government has also said that it wants to make alcohol more accessible. In any case, I have registered that you have said that you want a pole in each municipality. A pole in each municipality must also mean increasing, at least legally, availability. In that case, it is also a wild policy of the current government. Then, of course, you can say that when the state is in charge, it is more honest than if you are going to have merchants or others who sell. Finally, we're back to this with how to use, how to associate, and how to use the alcohol you actually get. That's what's the core problem here at my discretion. I think what you have to do is run a much tougher regime against those who abuse the confidence it is to have a license to sell alcohol — of course. I registered the representative, Bøhler,'s notion of dealing on the spot. It fascinates me. I'm at least very open to that we should have a debate about, and at least within my party I'm going to join in taking up the glove that Bohemian threw. It is simply a matter of giving those who are granted an opportunity that many others are not given. If you get it, it'll be easy to lose if you break the rules. If the legislation is too poor, the Council of State has said that he will look at the alcohol legislation and what is there, if there is a need for tightening. So to a moment that the Council of State mentioned in its first article. He talked about the failure of some municipalities when it came to attitudes to alcohol law and the alcohol law. I hope that the Council of State in its next article will be able to clarify what he thinks in this way. Another element that is important to take with it is the role of the police. It is my reverential claim that a visible police force also seems preventative, which the interpellant took up in his post. Then it's with quite a lot of concern that I'm recording developments in the Oslo Police for the current year. Now, of course, it can be that the Council of State comes back into the revised national budget and corrects this. But per year. Today, the situation does not appear to be a good one for the Oslo population in terms of developments in the Oslo police force. I think those who expect more visible police will not get it very close – very close! Then, of course, the Council of State and others can say that if we reduce the amount of alcohol, we don't need the police. That's possible. Unfortunately, I don't think it's that simple. I think you have to do more things at once. You have to run a tougher line when it comes to tipping and tipping, and a tougher line of having visible police. There is a need to run awareness campaigns to get around alcohol in a sensible way. And not least the police can be involved in taking care of the security of ordinary citizens. As the representative of Bohemia said in his statement, it must be possible to go to the cinema or theatre, and it must be possible to go home without being exposed to anything. Then the police, along with all the other actors out there, are one of the pre-mistakers for that to happen. We're not better than what we get in common. Then I registered that the Council of State was not involved in one of the last moments that the interpellant took up, namely punishment and punishment. It is that if you break a set of rules, it must also have clear and clear consequences. One of the themes here is to discuss sanctions against those who break the guidelines when selling alcohol. Then it must certainly be equally important to focus on those who break the rest of the law, who, by misusing some kind of substance or other, actually cause others great harm, in the worst case, take life, and at least I don't think it should be debilitating to be drugged at the moment. Each person has a personal responsibility for his own actions, and it must also come to light when he is judged for what he has actually done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e457	I am a good adult, but who has been walking at night in Oslo for quite many years, will not be able to draw the picture that the city is generally insecure. It's insecure for someone, and when it's insecure for someone, it's too many. I don't want to be a part of drawing the picture that people can't make it – most people can do it. I have even one night it rained, seen how many people are traveling on Karl Johan, and who are behaved properly. So we have to be completely precise and take those that don't. I'd like to get right on the matter. There must be zero tolerance for people who abuse trust when they have a gift point – it must be easy to lose a gift permit, and all the means to deal with it must be deployed by those who have the power and authority to do so. It must also be such that it is the age limit, that the age limit must be enforced. The police do that, among other things. in systematic operations with door guards to conduct them in such a way as to be proper. I've been out with the police at night in Stavanger and Trondheim, so I have a picture of what it's like outside Oslo. I am absolutely convinced that in addition to such a tough line towards those who abuse confidence in giving, it is quite necessary, when there are a lot of people out at night, at least in this city, where there is an excellent collective offer, that there is a collective offer at night, so that people can get home, that you could get home with trams and buses anyway, then you wouldn't stand up in a taxi queue. So to something that I don't think we should talk about. I've been with the police in Oslo since 1993, and it's a fact that there seem to be fewer people now than in a long time. Although I fully agree with the Council of State that the police, along with sole proprietors, are doing an excellent job both in Rosenkrantz’s street and in Karl Johan, it is clear that there are too few people at work, so there are too few people to share the tasks. That is why there was also a fight about the budget for the Oslo police district for the current fiscal year – it was different proposals, and it was the lowest draft budget that used to be – that is the way it is. That was the government's suggestion. There won't be more people out there unless there's money to have people out there. It is worrying, even internally, that the police who really know the city, those who can live in the streets – call it the police's public service – are the balancing post in the police. So if there's little money, this is going to be like a knit. When you're going to do other good things, for example. To go after gangs – very positive – and go after trafficking – very positive – while at the same time too poor budgets and too few people, is the order service that suffers. They will then have to give priority to efforts in the right places. They're good at it, and they're good at cooperating -- no criticism of those people, but it's just too few people and too few resources to keep it going. A policy for a safe capital must also mean a policy to ensure that the budget looks different. The first chance for the Council of State to do so is in the revised national budget. Then I agree with the Council of State that the dialogue he calls police council, which has existed in Oslo for a long time through police commissions, are important bodies, where one should sit down and listen seriously to one another. It is shown that the police have expressed their opinion on points of entry. Yeah, but the police have also, for example, in Oslo, said about large centres that are stone dead, in the sense that there are places where there is no life after a certain time. You've been busy with an urban development where there's life, where people live, so it's not just an empty center. In those areas, the police have generally not been listened to, and I have been among those who believe that there are people living in the centre who are involved in creating a culture and then making sure that it is a security. And it's also true that when you, like the Council of State, are out with nightfalls, you hit excellent fires that help make sure that there's security in a complex life. The fact that it's a complex life, which most people handle in a proper way, shouldn't make us close our eyes to what's wrong. That's why I'm going to get to the last point. When it comes to blind violence – and the blind violence in the streets often strikes young men – I expect the Council of State, when he comes back with the criminal code that follows the new penal code, to tighten up against violence, no matter what kind of violence it is. So there's a scary mood, of course, in the Oslo center right now because of the serial violence. Young women now experience a perceived insecurity. I know that those who work on it are doing their utmost to combat this, but there are also some of the pictures that characterize a big city. But the main impression of the city I live in is that most people have a good and ok life here, and it also provides a good basis for combating crops and abuse. We have to make sure that we are clear on this – that is to say, be obsessive to those who abuse the grant, come back with real penalties for violence, make sure that the police have enough people, and ensure that efforts are coordinated in this regard. These are the instruments of a capital message, which can be expected from the Left to the Government in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e475	There is an extremely important debate that the interpellant has raised, but no matter what political position you have, there is no clear answer, although we all here later as. When you discuss the chicken or egg, i.e. whether it is the alcohol that is the problem, is it the individual’s ability to handle alcohol, or is it the society that is the problem? I think we can have more than three and four interpellation debates and never come up with any answer. It was mentioned here that there has been a happy decline in crime, but when you look at the statistics gradually when it comes to, for example. Emergency reception, medical watch, etc., is more than a good reason to assume that the numbers of darkness have increased. I guess we've each in the government position chosen the definition of crime statistics that suits us best, but it's okay to keep it in mind when we're actually going to evaluate the extent of the situation. The main problem is, as we see it -- we're not sure we're right, but we think we're right in the Right -- the amount of alcohol and the accumulation of people in certain geographically restricted areas. As the representative of Dørum says, it is not that there is free flow of alcohol and completely out of control all over the city. It happens in special areas where there are many outdoors on a small stretch with associated dining areas with kebabs and sausages, and there are accumulations of people either in taxi queues or in sausage queues, in and out of outdoors, to and from. In addition – there are some Oslo representatives here – that it is the Right that governs the City Council, but the alcohol policy in Oslo has not exactly been very influenced – what to say – long-term. For example, when you have: sits in a backyard where there are only adjacent office rooms and the donation ends at 1 p.m. 23.30, everyone understands that it's not very logical. It also helps to push in towards the center of the places that, after all, are open. You don't get an open city. People spend time getting to the center, and you get a bunch of people in the streets where there's a lot of pressure from before. So a little bit about the history behind the alcohol law. The situation was that one should try out a model in Oslo. The majority at Stortinget did not like that the politicians in Oslo had local freedom to try out this model. Instead, it was decided to regulate this with laws via Stortinget to prevent local self-government from testing alternative models within a larger period of time. I was the leader of the people's reaction to the new alcohol law in its time. Then I was probably a little more liberal Young Right-Man than I am now, but at least I think it would be positive if the municipalities were given greater degree of local freedom of action, because it is about giving the municipalities the opportunity to take greater responsibility for their development. So it's taken up that someone dies in the alcorus. Then I come back to what I started with: Is it society, or is it the individual's attitudes and responsibilities we're talking about? There's a tendency for us to push most of the blame on society. I actually think we've seen a lot of episodes now that it's about what role models the parents are. The question then is how we build up parents to become good role models in social-democratic Norway, where it is expected that there are either compensation schemes or public bodies that will take responsibility for people who have actually taken too much, and do things they shouldn't have done, and harm both themselves and others. As far as attitudes are concerned, it is a paradox that, as half Turkish, from Istanbul, in a Muslim country, I get alcohol purchased 24 hours a day — even on a Sunday. But I never see raving drunk people fighting in the streets for that reason. Then you can ask the question: is there any evidence that there is access to alcohol that is the only reason, or can it have anything to do with the attitudes that are instilled in their children? Now I'm not going to be in favour of a Muslimisation or similar of Norway in terms of attitudes, but I might think we should look at countries that in practice have a liberal alcohol policy combined with more fundamental attitudes to what is okay and not good at doing in public space, and towards others. I think we might learn a little bit from that, rather than having – I would say – narrow debates in the main hall, where we all have the clear answers. Finally, we are waiting in suspense for the annual Council of State dinner. I understand that it is now being worked to ban alcohol on public dinners. I think we should be role models and give good signals, but I think maybe we can have such a big role model effect if we can take a glass of wine or two and show that it actually goes without practicing the strange drunk culture. The problem is that it's the index mentality over 50 years that has made us develop and continue a strange, full culture. So the question is, how do we build attitudes to build up the full culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e492	First to the representative Oktay Dahl, who claimed that it was the Right that ruled the City Council in Oslo: they do so far, but they do it together with the Advance Party. It's the Progress Party proud of. I have listened to the debate between some abstinent people here today. Well, that might say a little bit. It's true, as the interpellant says, that there are many people who feel fear of going out at night. But is it so that they fear to go out at night because there are many places and long opening times? That's the central question. It's not like the representative of Bohemia claims that people are afraid to go to movies and theaters. As far as I know, there is very little alcohol-related violence in the time when the cinemas and theatres are open. It's creating fear in the population, with which I hope the representative Bohemia ends, because it creates a city of fear. The truth about alcohol-related violence is that it affects others who also abuse alcohol. It's still documented. It's not like you're in between hours. 19 and 20 are defeated by a full youth. That's not how it happens. The party wants clear rules for the donation of alcohol. We believe that violations of the rules and regulations we set must have clear consequences. But refusing to give food to restaurants before they've done anything wrong is a completely meaningless policy. Grants must be easy to obtain and must be easy to lose. Alcohol is a legal product. I'm going to claim that 99.9 pst. we enjoy alcohol in a good way. Alcohol creates good relationships. Alcohol often breaks moods that make it easier to talk to each other. That's why alcohol is used so much. If we can never say that alcohol creates joy, we've come out very wrong. Alcohol also creates violence and the kind of family problems. We always discuss that, but we don't mention all those who enjoy alcohol with respect and take a glass of red wine in good layers among friends. It's actually quite essential. The truth about the state of Oslo and other major cities in Norway is that social morality is broken down, not that more alcohol is consumed in Oslo and other cities, but that is social morality — what is legal and what is not legal. The family is in great disintegration. The people have been removed from most people. That's where the problems lie. We can't sit here and make laws and rules that say how people behave. What kind of attitudes you give to your children before they go out and enjoy alcohol is very much on their parents. It is primarily the responsibility of the parents. That's how, as the representative Oktay Dahl was about, in other cities, there are no such conditions at night as it is in Oslo. They have the same liberal gift rules, but people behave with respect. They're in line with respect, and they're waiting for their turn. That's normal politeness. This society lacks courtesy, and we can't sit in this room and decide that people should have. It actually comes from the parents and from the homes they come from. The Christian People's Party in Oslo has proposed to close down 25 pst. of the centres – a relatively pointless proposal. If you get 25 pst, it'll be less alcohol abuse. fewer places of thought? Is there anyone who stops drinking because it's not open in that place, because they can't walk in that street? That kind of thinking is simply meaningless. Why not just take the step out and ban alcohol if you think alcohol is so wrong? Forbid alcohol! There are other countries that have tried it before, but they have failed. And which of the places are going to close? They haven't done anything wrong, they haven't broken any regulations or regulations, but 25 pst. So the outside is to be removed according to the Christian People's Party. What must be the conclusion is that each of us has freedom under responsibility. We must take responsibility for our own actions and behaviour. And the morality we take from home, and the culture we take from home, we actually carry it on. We are the parents who are responsible for the youth who may be responsible for violence at night in Oslo. We are parents who have to take responsibility. We can't decide anything about this right here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e509	For the last post, there could be a lot to say. I'll limit myself to a few comments. It's quite interesting that in all other contexts, the Progress Party is pushing the police to its heart in using arguments that the police are highlighting. It applies regardless of the type of crime, whatever it is, with one exception, and that is the debate we have had here today. Since, for example: Tybring-I might believe more in the police than in the undersigned, I'll quote station manager Hortemo at Kristiansand Police Station. In our country on February 2nd this year, we can read that there has been a marked development of violence in the city in recent years, and that the police especially see more cases of gross violence. Hortemo says: ‘...we see that higher alcohol consumption creates more violence. Several outlets with longer opening times may be indebted.» Well, you can just say that they don't have the right thing to do, those who are out on the street, who actually observe what's going on. I do not disagree that we all have a responsibility for what we stand for, and for what we pass on to our children. But if you are in politics, you should at least recognise the fact that you have a responsibility for the society you're trying to frame. In this city, there has been a consistent foundation for a density of nightlife in some streets in Oslo City Centre, which makes it more violent. I do not know if anyone dares to contest a claim that is then until the degrees documented also from the police. It's not pointless to reduce the number of points of discovery by 25 pst. Of course, it shouldn't be that you just take out some of the appropriations, but Tybrung-Gjedde and others know very well that as often as there are transfers of donations in this city, the number would naturally be reduced quite quickly if you had a political will to do so. I'm aware that the majority at present. Don't have it. I am largely very pleased with the debate we have had. There is a willingness to look at different ways of preventing the development of violence in the centre of Oslo, which we have unfortunately seen increased in the last year, with the figures that have been promoted in the debate. I would probably like to see a more offensive view of what concrete instruments we could put in place. There may be a lot of good wishes, but the first test of this will be the opportunity that the majority of Oslo City Council has in this way in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e527	I have listened attentively to the debate and, in particular, to the representatives from the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. Where was it driven? Where was it of all the concrete actions of those who stand primarily on the barricades to do something about crime and who constantly demand both zero tolerance and clear answers? With regard to the issue of prostitutes, without any research coverings, some kind of relocation should be adopted. With regard to the question of cat, which we have discussed earlier today, there are clear answers – we heard a very offensive André Oktay Dahl. The question of other drug abuse provides very clear answers, but in terms of what is one of the major challenges in the Norwegian crime scene, i.e. 60–70 pst. Of the violent crime that is happening, we hear the representative André Oktay Dahl holding a snorkeled post that turns around and ends up in the Council dinner at the top of the Parkweg. What is this? What kind of crime control is that? If this is what the Right means by zero tolerance – zero tolerance in relation to everyone else, whether it's prostitutes or substance abusers, but not the seams – then I look forward to political debates in the future. For this must be the debate: how can we tackle what is the main problem in relation to what creates people's insecurity? It's not like the representative Tybring-Gjedde is now making it like, that all those who go to the theater and in cinema are okay, they're not going to be shut down. The problem is that people feel insecure, among other things. to go home, feeling insecure in relation to having a pleasant evening in the city afterwards. If the Progress Party and the Right do not want to take that feeling of insecurity seriously, I will promise that at least the Government will do so, and I understand that we are getting a good alliance partner in the Christian People's Party. It is significant to hear representatives from the Right – and with a good result from the Left and the Advance Party – now just talk about the measures we are going to take when damage has occurred. We're going to have checkpoints. We need more police, too. But I think it's kind of funny when you don't go in and look at what kind of opportunities you have to actually prevent it really. I would also encourage these actors to join in. When it comes to the issue of police budgets in Oslo, I hear that former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum is also concerned about it. Why, then, did the previous government leave itself with a 2006 budget proposal that meant cutbacks from the Oslo police force? Is this something that has now suddenly come up as a topical political matter and become relevant when you are in opposition? I'm just asking. I think that we need to have an approach to this where we have respect for the political decisions that have been taken in the past, and the levels of appropriations that you put on, which are now, to the greatest extent, also taking into account the prevention of criminal acts, so that we do not get a society that is just established with more police.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e544	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-08.ana.ud2647e555	There is no record. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
