ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e24	The called alternate of the South-Trundellag County, Knut Gravrök, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave is submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative Vigdis Giltun from 18 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Per Egil Evensen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e47	Per Egil Evensen is present and will take the seat. The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e52	It is a pleasure to make proposals from the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself to ensure the maintenance of the level of funding for cancer research in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e57	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e60	On behalf of the representatives of Trond Helleland, Kari Lise Holmberg, Øyvind Halleraker, Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I will present proposals for ICT in the foreign administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e65	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e89	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kristin Halvorsen, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen and Terje Riis- Johansen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e98	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. The evening post could last Friday tell of a farmer at Lillehammer who now receives a property tax of over NOK 20 000. The reason for this is that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party have opened up the possibility for municipalities to introduce property taxes throughout the municipality. This property tax, which has hit the peasant at Lillehammer with over NOK 20 000, also affects the cabin people. We know that in many municipalities cottage owners could get a cabin tax of between NOK 10 000 and NOK 30000. I'm not worried about those who can afford to buy a cabin for $5 million. kr. But we know that there are many who have saved for a cabin through a long life, who have managed to realize the cottage dream. We know that there are many families who have had cabins that have gone for generations, and where you might be sitting with teacher pay or retired. They have inherited a cabin that they would never afford to buy, but which they have great pleasure in having. And then they are charged – in many places – a cabin tax of between NOK 10 000 and NOK 30000. It's a consequence of SV's policy. This is both unsocial and unfair. I had never thought that it was the Socialist Left Party that would tax ordinary people away from the cabins, so that it is only the people who can afford to have a cabin in Øyer or in Fredrikstad or some other place. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, when she sees the consequences of her policy, namely to give the municipalities the right to introduce this tax into the entire municipality, doesn't she see that this is both unsocial and unfair?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e111	If I can bring a small visit to the Right first, which has changed the Law on Santa Claus in such a way that many cabin owners have received a party fee that is completely beyond my control, I would say that I think maybe the representative Sanner should go a little bit quieter in the doors. So to the specific question about the house of the floor. What our government has done is give the opportunity, as Mr. Sanner was in the house, to impose property taxes on the entire municipality. In the past, for example: cabins except, and that was not possible. It is a principle position which the previous government on a principle agreed was a clearer way of getting it to. Then it's like with a bunkhouse that there are more obligations associated with a bunk house than with other similar dwellings, and therefore they have to be valued less than a similar dwelling. How much less it will be in relation to the market value will depend on local conditions, and therefore this is left to local authorities and cannot appeal to me. With regard to the amounts that the representative Sanner mentions for cabins, first of all, I think it is a significant exaggeration what he suggests about the level of property tax. Local authorities are the ones who decide this. There is good reason why it should be possible to levy property taxes in addition to central ones, inter alia. because many tenants use the services of municipalities. We see this as a major challenge in more and more municipalities that have large cabins in their municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e122	I think I'm going to put the supplementary question to the Minister of Agriculture, from the Central Party. The finance minister has given us a very bureaucratic and, in my opinion, very little reliable answer. The centre party has always been a defender of property and people in District Norway. The Terje Riis- Johansen, who is also Minister of Agriculture, must now see the consequences of the policy he has been pursuing, and I wonder: what is Terje Riis-Johansen's message to Kristen Hernes on Lillehammer, the farmer who has received over NOK 20 000 more in property tax? Is Terje Riis-Johansen as a centre party and Minister for Agriculture very proud of the consequences of his policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e129	I am proud of what we are doing in the government, and I believe that we have made a good arrangement also for the property tax. We have put in place a regime that, for the agricultural sector, has important limitations that do not give one an unfair distribution of bias based on, among other things, the property stock in agriculture is less negotiable than other industries and it is important. In addition, it is good, from a central point of view, that we have also stated that the municipal maritime administration actually works in this area, and that one can take account of the local conditions and local conditions when assessing these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e134	There will be follow-up questions – Jørund Rytman.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e137	When the Minister of Finance proposed to introduce cabin tax last year, I received a lot of enquiries from irritated voters. I will read out one of the e-mails I received from a selector from my county, Buskerud: ‘Hey! I'm so annoyed at the property tax on cabins, which now seems to be becoming a reality. We've now spent all our savings on a new mountain cabin, which we're going to use when we're soon to become pensioners. [[...]] We pay electricity, tolls, renovations, etc. [[...]] It's expensive enough to operate – then the property tax comes as well. [[...]] [[...]] Best regards, Inger. Doesn't the Council of State feel sorry for this elector, who has saved his whole life into a cabin for the retirement life? Will the Council of State comment on this e-mail?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e156	I would like to reply by e-mail, but I should perhaps do so if I get them myself. First of all, I wonder if the owner actually lives in a municipality that introduces property taxes throughout the municipality. That is an interesting question – that would be the first thing I had checked in advance for an answer. Secondly, I expect local self-government to function in such a way that you put property tax at a reasonable level. However, property taxation is not a bad distribution policy instrument when it comes to implementing a tax. We know that the distribution effects of it are very good. I don't think tenants are going to have a lot of problems with the property tax. So it's completely wrong to call this a cabin tax, because it's not allowed to introduce property tax just like a cabin tax. It is clearly based on the legislation that is in place. If you introduce property taxes, it must apply to the inhabitants of the entire municipality, and it must then be done in a way that is responsible to all the inhabitants of the municipality, not only to the tenants, who may have voting rights in another municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e166	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e169	My follow-up question also goes to the Minister of Finance. Whether municipal or state taxation is involved, people simply see it as impractical to use ordinary housekeeping or common cabins for relaxation and recreation to be taxed. Therefore, in the previous period, we remove the preferential tax on the dwelling. At the same time, we see that purely commercial investment in property has increased strongly, especially because property still has better tax conditions than other assets. An approach to finding a way out of this treasure may be to distinguish more strongly between the taxation of own ‘normal’ housing and leisure property and financial investment in property, i.e. a less taxed home, the greater taxation of purely financial property investments. My question is, is the Council of State willing to assess whether such a stronger distinction can be implemented in tax law?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e176	Firstly, I am aware that many Christian People's Party representatives in local politics are involved in introducing property taxes, usually in a modest way, because they want to fund welfare goods in their municipality. Secondly, we need to be very aware that property and housing are low taxed in Norway. Property taxes are much lower in Norway than in many other countries — just to get this debate in perspective. To carry out a further special treatment of the dwelling and cabins, in relation to the property tax, it must be, in the case of a national tax we are talking about, or in relation to the property tax, I do not think it is relevant. The tax advantage of the dwelling has been abolished, and the government has no plans to reintroduce it. But further changes in this, we have no plans to spin on now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e181	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e184	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, who said a few minutes ago that there is a ‘good arrangement’ for the property tax. In any case, what is established is that someone has to pay more tax; none of the agricultural practitioners have to pay less tax. The Minister of Agriculture may think that the tax on property is good, but it is now the case that most people in agriculture – many have already left behind this year’s difficult settlement of maritime and industrial duties – have seen that there have been significant increases in taxes on wealth and property taxes. The centre party is in favour of not having property taxes on commercial property, and is generally skeptical of all property taxes. Is the Minister of Agriculture of the Central Party satisfied that, through this government, he is now going in a dramatic wrong direction in relation to what he asked the voters to do in politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e189	I think that if the representative Sponheim is going to take a round of taxation and agriculture and what has been done and not done there, he has to look at the whole of it. We have taken a significant overall approach to taxation on the agricultural side, most recently on the last agricultural settlement, which has had a positive impact on the agricultural industry. So the sum of the changes on the tax side of agriculture is completely different in nature, in a positive direction, from that of the previous government. So I mean, as I said before, that we've made changes to property taxes that make agriculture come out of it in a way that takes into account the conditions that are special in agriculture, related to less negotiability and low return values. In sum, it makes us have an arrangement that's perfectly sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e194	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e197	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Finance. Let me first say that I think it is alarming that the Minister of Finance, after clear examples from Jan Tore Sanner in the opening round of how unsocial and unfair property tax expansion turns out, rejects this as exaggerations. It is a feature of most of the increase in taxes by the Minister of Finance of the SV that they meet socially, randomly and often groups of ordinary employees. This applies to both income taxes and property taxes, which often affect pensioners, which increase the value of equations, etc. and now property taxes, farmers and usual tenants. Can most people, or what may have to be called the even taxpayer in this context, also expect in the continuation that the increase in taxes imposed by the Minister of Finance will continue to affect ordinary people who are not in special income or wealth situations, and that they will be equally unbeatable, equally random and partly unsocial?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e204	Firstly, it is not the picture that the fleet representative draws from this government's tax policy. We have said all the way before the elections that we should return to the level of taxation we had in 2004. We'll keep that, and that's what's at stake. Then I am fully aware that the Right and Current Government disagree on fiscal policy and policy on distribution. But if there is to be some honesty in the debate, the Right cannot beat this government in terms of distribution policy. Right-wing proposals to eliminate the wealth tax, and all other changes, go in the opposite direction to what is our policy – giving the great relief to those who really have a lot of money, while we have done the opposite. You can only look at what the Right Sister Party in Sweden is now doing with tax relief. It's huge gift packages for those who have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e211	Then the president closes the store for this main question and goes over to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e214	I would like to put a question to the Minister of Finance. In these days, the vast majority of people sit and look at their tax returns and fill in and honor it back to the tax authorities. When you look at the tax returns you have received, you will see for the first time how the red-green tax policy turned out for the fiscal year 2006. Even though you heard in the election campaign that it was the rich that were to be taken, I think a lot of ordinary taxpayers now feel that that's not how it really turns out, when you look at your self-declaration. There's a lot of taxes you could pick up, but let me pick one up, and that's the property tax. It is quite clear that for very many people the wealth tax is quite hard and quite unsocial. It is not that only the rich pay taxes on wealth. We know, among other things: That about 36 p.p. of those who pay taxes on wealth in 2006 and 2007 are insured. Many of these are minimum pensioners. It badly harmonizes with what the government said they should do. The government has made no changes to the property tax, except to ensure that it is there. The party seeking to abolish the property tax. What I want to ask is: Does the Minister of Finance have a good conscience for the Government to defend the wealth tax in the form it is, which means that it affects a number of people, among others. many minimum pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e224	Removing the wealth tax, as the Progress Party wants to do, is a huge billion-dollar gift to the richest people in Norway. That's because wealth is some of the most distortedly distributed we have, and because the absolute richest are the ones that have a significant part of this. That's why this is a fair and good tax form. That doesn't mean we don't have ambitions to make it even fairer. It's one thing that we're working on, and that we're coming back to when it comes to the state budgets. But it's completely wrong, if you're the minimum pensioner, to go around and think that removing the property tax is primarily a gift to those who have the least in Norway. It's the opposite. It will be a handful of the absolute richest who will receive violent gifts from the Progress Party if it is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e231	It is true that those who are very, very rich in this country are able to make redeployments, among other things. moving and taking other measures to avoid this taxing which the Minister of Finance believes primarily affects those who are rich. I think very many who have little, and who are still sitting on a fortune, among other things. in the form of a house, this treasure feels very unfair. That is why I am pleased that you are alerting that you want to look at the device of it. That's as far as we get back to. Now we know that, among other things, In Sweden, new measures are being taken to eliminate the entire tax on wealth. Our neighbouring country Sweden, which is a competitive country and our closest neighbour, will not actually have a wealth tax, and soon no more countries in Europe have a wealth tax. Is it not true that there are some questions in the Government about what it will be like to be the last country in Europe to sit on it at the end of the strange tax, and it is not considered problematic how this will be when, among other things, it will be. Sweden eliminates the taxes on wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e238	I am very pleased that the Progress Party makes it so clear that the Progress Party is a right-wing party, because what the bourgeois government in Sweden is now doing is just to distribute significant funds from the community box to those who really have the most. If the representative Leirstein doesn't want me to be the truth witness to it, I can recommend today's release of the VG, which is just going through how to favor those who are the core groups of Moderates, those who are really mediated. That is why it is important that we keep the taxes on wealth. It is not the case, when we see property taxes and property taxes in the context, that there is something particularly high in Norway. It's the opposite. If we see this in context and take into account that most other countries have a significantly higher property tax than Norway, Norwegian taxpayers are coming out very favourably.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e243	There will be follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e246	It is such that the Minister of Finance has a desire to cultivate special images of who pays taxes on wealth in Norway. But the average payer of property taxes in Norway is an older lady who lives in Sogn and Fjordane or Uppland. That's what the tax statistics show. What is typical of Norwegian property taxes is that it hits a world record in low wealth, and it hits most people who have stuck to one spouse throughout their lives, and thus, when they have passed about. 50 years, probably comes in plus on wealth. What this government does when it has actually increased the wealth tax through the valuation of dwellings is to increase the wealth tax for those who have the lowest wealth and who have thus chosen to save and secure themselves when they enter old age. We know that people like to live 20 and 30 years after they're retired. Then it's probably not so strange that people think the taxes on wealth are a burden. If you own a cabin, a house, and you've inherited a little bit of money, you're inside the top step of the property tax. That's the real picture. I think the finance minister should do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e251	This is a very good contribution to making the property tax fairer, but it's not a good contribution to removing the property tax, for which the Right is initially in favour. If you are engaged in distribution policy, the taxes on wealth, and in particular property taxes, are an important and correct instrument. But we should definitely strive to make it fairer. That's my goal and my ambition as well. What makes some ordinary people get property taxes is the difference in value. For example, if you have money in the bank, there is more to property tax in relation to housing. So it's a significant challenge. But if the Right and Advance Party now want to have their wealth tax removed as their big, important campaign case, it's very clear speech: it's a gift package for those who have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e258	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e261	Another aspect of the property tax is that there is a tax on those who have little money, but own a cottage or a house and only that, is that there is a special tax on private Norwegian ownership of jobs. Yesterday, the Stortinget addressed the ownership message – about state ownership – and the debate was clearly marked by the fact that government representatives and sympathizers in this room are most concerned about how the state can own more. I have two specific questions for the Minister of Finance: 1) Does the Minister of Finance want more owners and more private ownership in Norwegian companies? 2) Does the Minister of Finance see that the wealth tax affects the ability to obtain more – and more – private – owners of Norwegian enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e270	There is no reason to lubricate private owners with tax incentives that will function unsocially, to make them invest in Norwegian business. And the removal of property taxes will work non-socially. If we now look at what is happening in a high economic cycle like the one we are now in, it is precisely those who have holdings in Norwegian business – who are going very well at the moment – that are really those who have a large increase in their incomes, so that they have never really been better able to pay taxes than they are today. So we have no plans to change the property tax for this. Private ownership is welcome and desirable and useful and important in Norwegian business, but there is no need for us to lubricate it with tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e277	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e280	My follow-up question is also to the Minister of Finance. When the Christian People's Party was in government, we were involved in starting the escalation of wealth taxes. It is one of several reasons why we have created new jobs, and unemployment is now falling. There was also almost a social contract between the business community and the government that there would be a further downsizing. What is my question to the Minister of Finance is whether she would particularly look at the wealth taxing of working capital. That's what's being highlighted as the most critical, among other things. from several business organisations. Earlier in the spontaneous Question Time, the Minister of Finance said that she did not snoop about changes, but I wonder if she is snooping about a change in the wealth tax on working capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e290	The President will not object to the Council of State sticking to the pulpit while the question is being asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e293	It happens that you ask follow-up questions to other government councils, and therefore this behavior from my side. Only to the representative Hareide: I believe that the heart of the Christian People's Party is closer to the red-green tax policy than to the right's tax policy. Removing the wealth tax, as the Christian People's Party cooperated with the Right, gives less room to pursue a fair distribution policy, but also to pursue an active welfare policy, which I know that the Christian People's Party is engaged in. So for property taxes on so-called working capital. It invites to very large questions of demarcation. That's why you haven't gone into this before, and there are very good arguments against introducing such a scheme. So that's not what I'm going to do. What I'm going to do – and not just snoop on, but work on – is make the property tax fairer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e302	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions. If Gjermund Hagesetter now has follow-up questions to another state council, then... [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e307	President! I always do as the President says.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e312	It's for the Minister of Finance. [[muttering in the hall]] Now it is not just the property tax that is the problem in Norway. We also have a bunch of other taxes, and that's the total tax burden that's a problem. More and more ordinary pensioners now escape the country, among others. because of the tax and tax burden. There are now over 41,000 who get their Norwegian pension paid abroad. Answers from the Ministry of Finance of 19 February show that an average pensioner will save almost $50,000 in tax and VAT per year. years by moving e.g. to Thailand. My question is: does the Minister of Finance think that it is entirely okay that an average pensioner who becomes a peasant in Norway has to pay $50,000 more than if he moved out of the country? Is this entirely unproblematic for the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e322	First of all, the answer I have sent to Stortinget shows that it is primarily the cost level that makes pensioners serve to move abroad. Secondly, I just want to answer very clearly: yes. We're not going to compete with Thailand's tax level. It would have very bad effects on Norwegian distribution policies, on the welfare state, on everything. So we're not going to do that. Then I just want to say one thing. Firstly, the level of taxation in Norway is not particularly high. We are about the average level in EU countries. Secondly, living in Norway is not an eternal calamities. Norway is a very good country to live in. This description of how terrible it must be to live in Norway, I feel very little at home, and I know that very many others do the same — for example. you can look at the front page of the Newspaper today. Fortunately, most of the North appreciate living in a good country, paying their taxes with understanding, and not sucking and wailing, mostly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e329	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e332	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. One of the last days brought the agricultural budget title up-to-date on income trends in agriculture. The figures show that the farmer’s income was at least on average unchanged from 2005 to 2006. Agricultural incomes are still well below 50 pst. below the income of other groups. The Christian People's Party and the Government Party have a common objective that farmers should have income and welfare developments in line with other professionals. The Christian People's Party believes that there are limits to securing this through increased prices, so if we are to ensure a chronic development of agricultural incomes in line with developments in other professional groups, a greater proportion must be covered by the government budget. There are clear expectations and needs for the development of better welfare schemes if new generations are to dare to invest in a future as a farmer. In particular, welfare arrangements such as: holiday and release arrangements are extended. Farmers' organisations have clear expectations for the agricultural settlement. The faithful to both income shock, better welfare arrangements and structural reforms is strongly underlined. I understand that the Council of State cannot start the agricultural negotiations from Stortinget's pulpit, or discuss in detail what the government will provide. But some of this is policy, and therefore I ask the Council of State: can the Council of State confirm that it is a central objective for agriculture this year that the income gap between farmers and other professional groups should be reduced and that the important welfare arrangements for farmers should be improved?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e343	It is true, as the representative Sørfonn says, that the trend from 2005 to 2006 in income growth in agriculture shows a moderate trend — to use those words. Then it is also part of the picture that the income forecast for the first year of the agreement with which the government has been involved shows a better development, and it seems that the assumptions underlying the negotiations last year are consistent. It's a prognosis, so we'll figure out the status when the year is avoided, but so far it looks like the assumptions hold true. In addition, it is, of course, exactly as the representative Sørfonn says, that it is now 14 days before the agricultural organisations make their demands to the Government, that is not appropriate. There's no curfew to do that in Stortinget either. So I don't think we should do that today. In addition to that, of course, I share the ambition of the representative of Sørfonn that we should facilitate a general development of agriculture that helps us to have an optimism, which contributes to good income development, and which contributes to the creation of jobs in rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e352	I had hoped that the Minister of Agriculture would go a little further in giving some political leadership. I'm going to try it out from another incidence angle. So-called structural arrangements are also an important part of agricultural policy, and there is now a considerable concern because of the investment needs that come under animal welfare conditions. In concrete terms, this new fire regulation applies to poultry for winter feed sheep and the future requirement for lay-off poultry. While animal welfare is of course very important, the lack of flexibility in the design and practice of such impositions may weaken the motivation to invest in agriculture for years to come. In that case, it will be very unfortunate, both for the goal of living settlements throughout the country and for the goal of sustaining the cultural landscape. My specific question, therefore, is this: is the Council of States prepared to show flexibility in the design and practice of these matters, or is it the last word to say when it comes to how these directives are to be practised?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e359	I agree with the representative Sørfonn that it is important to balance out the kind of considerations referred to here. Displaying flexibility is exactly what has been done. There was a plan that applied to a regulation on what Sørfonn here refers to, fire measures in sheep's eggs. Just to get a more flexible phase-in, I have chosen to phase it in at a later stage than it was planned. So that flexibility I see the point of when it's needed, and I've also practiced it in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e365	There will be follow-up questions – Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e368	My follow-up question also goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Surveys show that agricultural families have no lower income development than other families when looking at total household, family, income. It's true that agricultural incomes are falling, but that's because a number of governments, including this government, and also the questioner from the Christian People's Party want to continue with an old-fashioned policy, i.e. a policy that has led to the incomes of agriculture just going down. That's because you're just looking at a trend in revenue above the government budget. Agriculture is also fully protected from the market, and it is a regulated industry. The market provides good income opportunities for other groups in society. What concrete measures will the Minister of Agriculture now take so that farmers can increase income growth through market measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e377	It's not true, the representative of Asmyhr here says, that market reasons do not play a part in the creation of income in agriculture. The best example of that is what we've seen in the last year, maybe in the last two years, in pig production. We have seen fluctuations in the market that have resulted for individual producers in the hundreds of thousands of krona class, and also more than that. We are in a situation where very many Norwegian farmers depend on a well-functioning market, on a balance in the market in order to take out the income and income generated by the annual agricultural negotiations. So the picture that Kielland Asmyhr here is trying to draw is – to say it carefully – something unexplained about the relationship between the farmer and the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e384	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e387	The key issue is simply how to give the farmer opportunities in the future to obtain income that allows him or her to compete with other professional groups. I am today recording to my great surprise that one government council after another is saying it is pleased. We've never, historically, had a percent greater decrease in the number of uses. I guess we've never had a bigger centralization, with a moving drawer away from the village, than what we have today. Does the Council not see that there is an anti-stimulation policy being implemented? They say no to reform the concession law. You have spasms on a residential facility. You're tightening up co-operation. Yeah, we don't know what's coming next. When are you going to be willing to take over all the evidence that the Government is actually implementing an anti-agricultural policy today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e396	I have to say that it is relatively special to hear the representative Kristiansen here give me and this government the responsibility for what is defined as a centralization wave and a rate of change in agriculture, which is then defined as obviously negative. If someone thinks that the changed agricultural policy has taken place from one day to the next, for example: Centralisation, cessation of use and the kind of things that the representative Kristiansen here is in, I totally disagree with you. Agriculture is more than any other industry a long-term industry. That means that it's the direction over time that gives the different answers. I believe that we have indicated a direction for agricultural policy in this government that is different from that of the previous government. This means that over time we will see a different level of urban activity related to the individual farm. That's my ambition, and I'm exceptionally impatient to reach that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e401	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e404	It is such that the agricultural budget heading calculates the income development of farmers, which is then again compared with and measured against other income groups. In this context, it is important that the calculations are comparable from year to year and that there is agreement on the figures for the budget item as the basis for the agricultural settlement. In the media, it is claimed that one has changed the calculation methods, which led to an assumed poorer agricultural settlement in 2006, i.e. Sponheim’s settlement, while in 2007 it appears to be better settled, i.e. Riis-Johansen’s settlement. Will the Council of State take action to ensure that the methods of calculation are the same, that the rules of the game are the same, from year to year? What will the Council of State do to clean up the confusing situation of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e413	I understand that what has been done on a professional basis in the budget topic of the real interest question – that is probably what the representative here refers to – is just a cleaning-up. It is a clean-up that should have been done a long time ago, taking into account the professional assessment of the impact of real interest on rapid changes, in a technical calculation of income trends in agriculture. By introducing an average calculation, as the budget has now done, professionals believe that one will have a more tidy approach to smoothing out fluctuations, which are very large from year to year. It is an approach that is similar to that of relatively many other sectors of society. So I am dealing with the assessments made in the budget subject, just as I think former government councils have been dealing with similar assessments from the budget subject as a professional body.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e420	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e423	I share the wish of the Council of State for an optimistic agriculture. But I have to say, unfortunately, that the Council of State's response does not please me in this round. There are large investments in agriculture. Being young today and deciding for this profession requires a lot of ‘goods’. It's sad that it should be like this. Being a farmer is not anything common nine to four-professionals; it's hard working 24 hours a day. Young people today have greater demands for well-being and leisure time. That one gets 50 pst. of normal pay, is also not something that tempts. Many of my friends at home who replied that they wanted to become a farmer when they grew up, have now chosen – and have chosen – other occupations instead of taking over the garden at home. So my question to the Council of State is, what will the Council of State do to enable young people to invest in the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e431	It is about ensuring that there is an income development in agriculture that makes it attractive to enter the industry and traditional agriculture. Then it's about the fact that we have to succeed with the new industries up against agriculture, which actually means an opportunity for a significant value creation potential within this industry. I think especially of agriculture as an energy producer. Bioenergy is the key to creating a new food supply for agriculture. I think about green care, where agriculture has a great opportunity to become a service provider in the municipalities. I'm thinking about green travel, where agriculture has a great opportunity to deliver a product that Norway needs, which society wants, and which provides income opportunities in the countryside. So the combination of a good agricultural policy in traditional agriculture and the development of the new industries is what I think is going to give these young people who agriculture needs to want to go into and get a place in agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e436	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e439	It would have been tempting to follow up on the previous answer, to change the rules of the agricultural policy in this way, but I will not do so. There are more important things in our days than both agricultural settlements and wealth taxes that I think such a spontaneous questioning time should be about when we also have the Minister of Sustainability, as the Minister of Finance is present. For that is despite all of the major challenges that we should be concerned with. I will not challenge the Minister of Finance on binding climate targets just before the National Labour Party meeting. We'll definitely get back to that. But I would like to invite the Minister of Finance to reflect highly on the possibilities for a transition to more green taxation in the policy and budget ahead. We all know about the Green Tax Commission, which some of us – I think perhaps both the Minister of Finance and I signed – were initiators in their time. Much has been followed up, but even more remains. Is there something important in our time, is that we get a better balance between economics and ecology, that what we're managed to do through the economy, is also necessary and good for the environment. The Government shall be credited for showing willingness to convert, for example: what has happened in the current year in the case of car charges, which also received Left’s support. But my challenge to the Minister of Finance is to go even further in the future. There are great potentials for doing things. It's going to cost. It's going to cost us for what industries we're going to have in the future, for example. removing the pollution discount that a good part has. You could say that the allowance system that is now announced, where no one is going to pay for the allowance and in addition is not paying taxes, does not go in such a direction. Equally full: the 2008 budget is a great opportunity to create a green budget. Will the Minister of Finance contribute to this? In that case, I will promise her the wholehearted support of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e450	I've been happy about this question, because I've been with the National Conference of the Left, and I've seen them commenting on these questions, which I myself am concerned about. Then I notice the constructive, inviting form of the representative Sponheim, and I am also pleased about that. So I would like to say that the Soria Moria Declaration refers to this very clearly, namely that we want to exchange taxes – not red taxes, because we need to have a good distribution profile – in such a way that we tax environmental damage and pollution more than before, while we can lighten other taxes. So the main interest in what Lars Sponheim here is raising, and what was expressed at the National Conference of the Left, I fully share. Then it's right, as the representative Sponheim says, that I'm the Minister for Sustainable Development, and in the context of the 2008 National Budget, we're going to put forward a strategy for sustainable development. This shall be consulted in advance. We have asked someone to see us in the cards and have received a peer review report in which Swedes have presented us with clear challenges on a professional basis, which we are now going to reach for. I cannot address some taxes and taxes in the 2008 budget. Of course, it's because the government isn't done dealing with this. But we have introduced a NOx fee. It's in line with this thinking. We've changed the car charges, just to get people to think about when they're making such an important investment. We have removed charges for E85. We have removed the CO2 tax on the bioethanol blended into other petrol. We have set up a quota system that is much tighter than the EU has set up. It is a good climate policy instrument. But I would like to have this discussion with the Left and the other forwards, and I would like us to focus a lot more on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e467	I thank you for that answer. I think it is right and important that this should be an important part of the economic debate and policy ahead. Because we will not succeed in achieving environmental and climate objectives unless economic policy supports it. The fact that I call taxes on work for red taxes should not prevent it. Because that's really what it is, switching between less taxes on work and more taxes on what is environmentally harmful behavior. This could be done, for example, by: This means increased deductions, which means that the social profile is very favourable in reducing the red tax. But it is also true that the Minister of Finance is Minister of Finance at a time when there are very good conditions for doing something. One thing is – it's quite self-inflicted, and I'm not going to rush over it in this context – that you've locked yourself up to the 2004 tax level. Now the government is there, and that means that changes have to be about tax exchange anyway. Therefore, a tax exchange should be in the direction we are now talking about. The second is that there are now so many good times and so many vacancies that it is possible to take some grips that cost a little, even when it comes to renewing jobs. Today, most people will be able to move into modern, new jobs, which are environmentally desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e474	I fully agree with what the representative Sponheim is now saying. There are many possibilities to think about the distribution and environment of taxes and taxes. For example, this is a case in point. also to go through other types of charges that may not be as well justified now as when they were introduced. And it is about the possibility that increased environmental taxes can lead to other reliefs, so that the social distribution profile is also respected. It is also true that if we first move in a more environmentally friendly direction, the situation in the labour market and in the case of Norwegian enterprises will now be favourable in order to do just that. But, of course, we're going to do it on the basis of both taking social considerations and finding effective instruments. Then I am happy that you can take this discussion in a whole. It is clear that if we are to implement a tax policy that is more consistent with sustainable development and environmental objectives, there is good news and bad news about it. It will clearly come to the fore at the moment when these proposals become concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e481	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e484	One of the problems is that, on the one hand, we increasingly agree that climate change is significant, and that something needs to be done, while at the same time we do not take advantage of the opportunity to get on the offensive with effective action. The government has now adopted a scheme for renewable energy support which is the worst in Europe and which parks more projects than it triggers. Now we know that the sectoral action plans that were to come to Stortinget and form the basis for a climate settlement in ours are exposed and first come to Stortinget so late that the final treatment here in the house comes to the autumn. Is this postponement due to the depriority of this work and to the imprudence of the Government, or is it simply due to the internal struggle to reach agreement between the SV, as it pleases, and the Workers' Party and the Centre, which are linked to strong sectoral interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e489	If that was the case that this government had put the brakes in place in relation to the government for which we took over, which really carried out major, massive environmental changes in Norway, I think the representative Kvassheim could accept this tone. But in fact, as far as the main question, green taxes and a more green tax system are concerned, we have done far more than what the Left has achieved so far in its government participation. So the question of how to follow up climate policy needs careful treatment. But there are no dramatic delays in this work. The Stortinget has always known that we are going to the Stortinget with this matter during May, and there are no dramatic changes in this. On the contrary, we are now working on this to obtain a good, offensive document for Stortinget, precisely because the Stortinget can be invited to participate in setting the level of ambition far higher than the previous government provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e496	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e499	It seems every time you talk about increasing taxes and taxes, the Minister of Finance sparkles at it. I don't feel exactly the same exposure when it comes to reducing taxes and taxes. The point is that if an e.g. reduces the single entry charge on cars, it will also have an environmental impact that is significant. Then we will have a faster renewal of the car park, we will have a more environmentally friendly car park, and we will also have a safer car park. This isn't just the Progress Party that I'm talking about. In the Technical Weekleaf, Minister for Transport Liv Signe Navarsete is quoted as saying that she wants to reduce car charges, and she says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Replacement of the old car park is perhaps one of the most effective things we can do to reduce CO2 emissions from passenger cars.’ My question is: is the Minister of Finance in agreement with the Progress Party and the Minister of Transport that the car charges must be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e515	I agree – and therefore we have submitted to Stortinget a significant conversion of the one-off charge in such a way that we get a more environmentally friendly car park. However, the large environmental accounts need to include several elements. It's e.g. not that it is particularly environmentally friendly to reduce one-off charges in such a way that several families with one car can obtain two cars instead. Nor is it wise environmental policy to reduce the one-off charge so much that fully usable cars that are used a little, are replaced by new cars. It's also part of that environmental account. In addition, the one-off charge is a source of income for the state, which also means that we can pursue welfare policies in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e520	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e523	The right shares the desire of both the Government and the Left to turn taxes into greater use of green taxes. At the same time, we see that several of the government's now announced changes – both the NOx fee and the diesel tax on recreational boats – have received several shots for the bow. The problem with the NOx tax is that environmentally friendly maritime transport is now being severely penalised. And that the government went on a click in Stortinget from its own party groups in relation to the diesel tax on recreational boats, it gets to be an apropos in that way. The main problem for the Minister of Finance is that she focuses solely on tax increases for example. environmentally hostile behaviour, but does not see that tax reductions can also stimulate environmentally friendly behaviour. Does the Minister of Finance not see that the introduction of environmentally friendly behaviour will also involve, through the tax system, getting more people to choose green?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e536	That's exactly what we're doing! That is exactly what we do when we implement a conversion of the one-off charge on the car. As a result, cars with low emissions have become 20 000 – 30 000 kroner cheaper than before. After all, it is a pure reward to choose a car that has lower CO2 emissions. That's exactly what we're doing -- the previous government didn't remove the E85 fees to stimulate people to buy flexi-fuel cars and get up the bioethanol market. That's exactly what we're doing. But that also means that you have to charge a tax on environmentally harmful behaviour. But the NOx tax was a charge and a problem related to acid rain that the previous government neglected, pushing ahead. It is difficult – and of course it is that those affected by it protest – but the cruise industry has long known that it came, and has a self-interest in helping to reduce acid rain. It's just a natural experience without acid rain that many of these cruisteries sell.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e547	Flexi-fuel cars have become more expensive, not cheaper. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e552	No, it's wrong. I want to transmit those numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e557	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e560	The finance minister is not impressed by what the former government received. Then I want to say that in the last two years of the Bondevik II government, the Ministry of the Environment's budget has been increased by 25 pst. But after Kristin Halvorsen took over as Minister of Finance, the Ministry of the Environment has experienced a real decline. I hope we see a change in that when the 2008 budget is presented. But I'm glad the Minister of Finance has a positive commitment to green taxes. It helps to stimulate environmentally friendly behaviour. It helps to make it more profitable to work. I think companies in Norway are willing to get more green taxes, if they experience other taxes being reduced. And as the Minister of Finance said earlier, it is important that there be an exchange. My question is therefore: would it be relevant for the Government as part of this exchange to abolish the inheritance tax in case of a generation change in family-owned enterprises? There is one of the few charges that the red-green government has said she will look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e569	I don't think I'm going to go any closer to what we might come up with when it comes to changes in specific taxes and taxes in the 2008 budget, to which the representative Hareide now invites me, but say that we're going to continue this work on switching from the tax system. Then, of course, we must also be prepared for the fact that the taxes and charges that are increasing mean getting protests. But then you have to show the good you're giving out otherwise. Then we have experience that the CO2 tax works. For example, the mainland industry, which has now been subject to a quota obligation instead of a CO2 tax, has suffered a decline in its emissions. It's because of the conversion of production, because of the development of technology, and it's because of the fact that economic instruments have just been used to achieve it. Otherwise, the picture of the budget is completely wrong. Railway deployment, clean-up of CO2, renewable energy, which has been doubled by this government, is a very good environmental effort in our budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e587	We're raising one more main question – and maybe a couple of follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e590	My main question is to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The Progress Party believes that the main signal that came at the Central Party national meeting for approx. a month ago, was very elucidating. It appeared – according to the Evening Post on Saturday 17 March: ‘Sp will have even more expensive food.’ This shows that the Centre Party follows its tradition of being a special interest party – which is to take care of strange and narrow business interests – and a party that gives the bluff in the situation of consumers. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister of Agriculture and Food whether he has had an impact on this central party policy in the Government. I have also heard the Minister for Agriculture and Food say that he wants a good agricultural settlement this year. This means that the target price system will have to increase prices to the consumer. My question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food is: Can he confirm that it is Government policy that food is going to be more expensive? This question only requires a simple yes or no. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e610	An additional dimension of this is agriculture, which will take place in a few weeks' time. The result of the agricultural settlement will be presented to Stortinget when it is negotiated. I think the representative of Kielland Asmyhr has some simple input on what Norwegian consumers are concerned about. I am absolutely convinced that the modern Norwegian consumer is very concerned that through food policy we are able – as a point 1 – to provide food security. In the last year, the main consumer issue related to food has been food security. We have been through an E. coli case, which has been serious, and which has shown that focusing heavily on and working very seriously with food security is consumer policy at its best. In addition, it is also my opinion that the modern Norwegian consumer is much more than ever concerned with the food diversity in the shopping desk. This is why it is so important that through food policy, and also in agricultural policy, we are able to facilitate the emergence of the food diversity that is now being exemplified in rural areas by the fact that local traditions, the stories, will be linked to the new cheese, to the new bacon – which will also reach more consumers. I am dedicated to pursuing a consumer-friendly policy. I believe that food security and food diversity are obviously consumer policy issues, which are dealt with by the Government, and on which it is important to focus in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e621	I think the Council of State should have such respect for the Stortinget that he answers the specific questions asked in the Questionnaire. In addition, I do not think it is very good for the Council of State to open up to the questioner a simple entry point. I want to ask the Council of State again: is it the government's policy that food is going to be more expensive, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e628	I cannot answer any other question than what I said when the representative Sørfonn asked his question earlier today, about the arrangements for the farm. So we're in front of the farm settlement. What will be done about it, if one chooses a device that deals with the use of budgetary resources – last year tax havens were a significant part of the agricultural settlement – or if one chooses an entry where an increase in target prices is part of the negotiating result, it would be totally wrong for me to stand here in the Stortingen and foreman. The negotiations – and their outcome – are just about the corner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e635	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e638	With regard to the approach to the settlement to which the Council of State referred, I think it is very important that the Minister of Food in the Council of State is given a more central place than what today's spontaneous questioning might have given the impression. The answer here is definitely that within the Centre Party you will not lose sleep at all if food prices in Norway would increase significantly. What is important, and what the entire government is talking about with regard to the forthcoming WTO agreement – the question is not whether there will be a WTO agreement, but when – is whether a systematic adjustment will be implemented. In my opinion, and in my view, this is where the policy of the Council of State fails – especially if the case is that Norwegian consumers will receive higher food prices. Does the Council of State agree with me that what is added to the WTO agreement – as we know is coming – is an anti-adaptation policy for what has to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e654	I would like to refer to what has been done. I cannot, with my best will, understand what is anti-WTO policy by adding to an agricultural settlement where tax relief is an essential part – as was done last year – and where budgetary instruments are the second main part. When the budgetary instruments used can also be placed in a green box, it is completely incomprehensible to me what is in an anti-WTO policy. We actually have a policy that is sustainable in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e661	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e664	The Minister for Agriculture and Food has repeatedly stated in this spontaneous issue that tax changes have been made in connection with last year’s agricultural settlement. I would like to remind you that tax changes are something that Stortinget is doing – after the Minister of Finance has invited it to do so in connection with the State budget. There is no negotiation theme in any settlement – some of us. But that's not what I want to ask, I want to ask about the possibility of a price increase. In good time before the agricultural settlement of the year, for example, the Bonde team, among its members, has had a study circle based on the fact that there is no basis for large price increases. Surprisingly, the Central Party’s national meeting gave the impression that there was a significant rise in prices on the market in this agricultural settlement. But I am familiar with the fact that the current WTO agreement clearly limits the price increases that can be made in Norway, due to the WTO agreement and the current customs duties. Can the Council confirm that we are subject to that agreement in such a way that it is only to dampen the expectations of increased prices in the year's agricultural settlement, regardless of what would have been possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e673	I think the representative Sponheim better than most here sees the interface in relation to what can be defined as negotiating issues, now 14 days before the demand from the agricultural organisations comes. What I can confirm, and which is completely in line with what the representative Sponheim says, is that the previous WTO agreement that was concluded provides a framework for what can be done on the price side of Norway. It's quite obvious. It will then be possible to discuss the size of the framework and how to deal with what may come, but there is a framework in the WTO agreement based on the Uruguay Round. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e680	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e684	If agricultural policy were to even increase the target prices of agricultural products, it is likely that there will be a more demanding situation for the Norwegian food industry than for Norwegian consumers, for the food industry operates at very strict margins and does not tolerate any deterioration in its conditions of competition at present. The risk of deflagration is actually real. At the same time, agricultural professionals must receive an increase in income in crowns at least equivalent to that of other groups of occupations. My question then is: does the Minister of Agriculture see other solutions to this group than that the Government has to put significant amounts in the pot?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e691	I don't think I'm going to tell you any big news by saying that there are essentially three ways to increase agricultural incomes. One is reductions, either in taxes or in other costs. The second is budgetary resources, and the third is price increases. It is within the framework of the agricultural negotiations that has been held in Norway in the past, and of course it is within the framework of the agricultural negotiations that will take place this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e696	Øyvind Korsberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e699	It would have been natural to ask a follow-up question to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, but since he does not answer the questions asked, I would also like to ask a follow-up question to the Minister for Finance. Agricultural food industry represents 16 pst. of industrial employment in Norway, and a substantial part of this industry is located in the districts. The Industrial Group Orkla fears an expensive agricultural settlement. They indicate that it may now be appropriate to transfer parts of the production due to high costs. What concrete action will the Government take to prevent the deflagration of the agri-food industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e708	Firstly, agricultural negotiations are not taking place in the Stortinget House. Secondly, this is the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture. I'm not going to interfere with that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e713	So the oral questioning process is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e719	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions drawn up, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Steinar Gullvåg to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has been removed. Question 4, from the representative of Vera Lysklött to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment, who is directing him. Questions 11, 12, 13 and 16 from the representatives of Martin Engeset, Thore A. Nistad, Trond Helleland and Borghild Tende to the Minister for Transport, respectively, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away. Questions 14, 15, 17 and 18, from Bård Hoksrud, Arne Sortevik, Jan Sahl and Torbjørn Andersen, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 20, from the representative Bjørg Tørresdal to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 22, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice who is directing him. Question 25, from the representative Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for Oil and Energy, this question is moved and answered in response to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question No 29, by Mr Dagrun Eriksen, representative of the Minister of Health and Welfare, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 30, from the representative of Laila Davøy to the Minister of Health and Welfare, falls short, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 32, from the representative André N. Skkelstad to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment, who is directing him. However, the question falls because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e755	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question: «The forest assets shall be adjusted. For «other values relating to the property», the Guidance note states that «The calculations of the property values are made by multiplying gross rental/fixing income shown in the business task by the capitalisation factor». Forest owners are thus required to pay taxes on wealth also at their expense. Will the Council of State clarify that gross income is not the basis for the calculation of wealth, or is this a signal that the principles of property values should be changed?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e764	As a general rule, taxable assets shall be determined at the sales value of the asset. This does not apply to forests. For forests, the value in use is decisive, i.e. the longer-term value of the forest in the case of rational care and operation. Revision of forest property values has normally taken place at 10-year intervals. The last time a complete audit was carried out was in 1990. The audit to be carried out in 2000 has been suspended for several reasons. The main reason is that the method used in 1990 was very inconvenient both for forest owners and the set of equations and therefore unsuitable for re-entry. After a thorough process involving, for example: two consultation rounds, the Tax Directorate has issued a new regulation on the valuation of forests with effect from 2006. Following the first round of consultations, a number of changes were proposed to business organisations. These are generally taken into account in the adopted regulation. The regulation provides for significant simplifications by reaching the value of net annual growth in the widespread use of templates, including: for prices and costs. Question is raised whether the calculation principle for the determination of other values related to forest property has changed in the context of the last revision. This is not the case. As in the past, the property value of, for example: hunting, fishing, plotting, sand roofs and quarries are calculated on the basis of the value of the entitlement itself. Other additional benefits for which remuneration is received shall be excluded. Only the income from the right itself is included and capitalised. For example, income from the rental of cabins, hunting dogs, vehicles, etc. in the case of the rental of hunting and fishing rights, the asset value of the hunting and fishing rights themselves is deducted. Actual, gross, rental income from land, hunting and fishing will most often give a good picture of the value of the right. Such revenues can very often be achieved without significant operating costs. The administrative costs of such rentals will usually be so de minimis that they do not represent anything in particular in the valuation. In the past, one looked away from the administrative costs of valuing rights, among other things. due to low capitalisation factor. It's still like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e777	I thank you for a really bureaucratic answer. This is almost impossible to read to in the regulations. Accountants all over the country travel around telling people that there is gross hunting income, which is to be taken of. It has created shock waves around the forest among people who fear 1,000 pst. increase in wealth, precisely because costs are not taken into account. The regulation that was sent out is permeated by the fact that nothing more is seen than that these are dead rental incomes, which do not result in value creation and employment. I had hoped that the Minister of Finance had actually realized that it was quite dramatic out there that such increases in wealth could be achieved. I had hoped that the Minister of Finance would have given a clear answer that there are only rental incomes, not costs, that are to be included in the property tax, because that is actually waiting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e786	I'm referring to the answer I've already given. Of course, it has to be quite detailed, because all kinds of tax rules are quite detailed. And there shouldn't be any significant ambiguity around this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e791	I'd like to follow up on this. I am not yet quite clear whether the Minister of Finance really wants to make it clear that it is the net basis to be used. This is quite important, also in relation to the next question, because there are a lot of people coming out with extremely high wealth increases. And as for what the Ministry of Agriculture has wanted to stimulate for many years, that is, organized products that contribute to value creation out in District Norway, and that create employment, those who do it come out very badly. The risk is that you actually put that kind of business down and go over to clean rental models, and it's not District Norway that's earned. I would like a clear clarification from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e800	I am not going to go any closer to the reality of the answer I have already given, but the violent, dramatic effects of this is not what the Ministry of Finance has used when we come up with this proposal. We've calculated a proceeds of the changes that have been made, of 10 million. kr. It's not consistent with the -- what to say -- the horror visions that many people think these rules mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e809	I have a question for the Minister of Finance – we stay in the woods in beautiful spring weather: ‘The new forest wealth calculations announced in the 2007 budget are now being carried out for the country’s 120 000 forest owners. In general, the results of this review show significant increases in asset values for very many and individual estimates of up to 2 000 pst. in value-added. The Council of State may confirm that the estimated total wealth tax increase in the forest owner budget of 10 million. kr is established and will arrangements be put in place to compensate forest owners who are unduly taxed as a result of the new calculation methods?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e818	Now we have just had one round on this question, and I can refer to my previous answer, especially as regards the reason why there was a need to make changes to this tax bill. And this is firmly anchored through two consultation rounds. That is why, in my view, it is not right to present the new valuation rules as contributing to an accidental tax increase for forest owners in the country. I am aware that in some cases the new forest taxing rules will contribute significantly to increasing forest wealth. However, it is not unreasonable for forest owners who benefit from a low wealth tax on forest property for a number of years as a result of a very low wealth gain in the previous revision to receive increased taxes on wealth with the new rules. At the same time, I would like to remind you that if the new valuation technique gives a very large increase in the value of the equation, the regulation will open up for a gradual phase-in of this. In addition, account has been taken of any adverse outcome of the new taxation rules. Firstly, it is open to correction in cases where a very high proportion of the juvenile forest is present. Secondly, an increased cost stencil may be used in cases where operations are specifically cost-intensive. Thirdly, the forest factor to be used to calculate the capitalised forest value is very moderate. In the 2007 government budget, the Government has taken into account a net proceeds effect of that 10 million change. kr. I am concerned that the effect of the new taxation rules is not going to be entirely different. I have therefore asked the Tax Directorate to examine further the changes in the property values of forest properties as soon as the 2006 tax returns with the new reported asset values are available. The Ministry will review this data as soon as possible in the light of what was presented in the 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e831	I thank you for your answer. I think it's positive in that direction that the Minister of Finance will look at the amount of 10 million. kr, for the notifications relating to the amount of the amounts heard, suggest that this is likely to be several more. But I would like to stress that this gives some compensation in addition to looking at the total amount, must be a condition. Has the Minister of Finance considered how this is brought to the Grand Duchy and to the public? How can we view this? How do you get to know this? There are 120 000 forest owners, and this is a considerable amount of work. In parentheses, I would say it's too much work for these 10 million. kr, but it must be the cause of the Minister of Finance how she intends to attack her tax increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e838	Firstly, I would like to remind you that this process has been very broad and very thorough in relation to the changes that have occurred, with thorough consultation rounds. There was a great deal of agreement that the rules we had were not feasible further forward. That's a starting point. It is not that the Ministry of Finance has been sitting and looking at something that comes as a big surprise to the industry. That's the one. The second is that we're going to go through this and look at it. It is a positive answer I give the representative Fleet here in relation to the issues that have arisen. It's hard for us to understand that the changes that have been made can have as dramatic consequences as some people now say, when our calculations show a more wealth of 10 million. kr, which is a conservative estimate. We're going to go through this on the basis that we're going to see if there's any unintended effects of this tax conversion that means it's going to be evaluated. Of course, the size will be briefed if we propose changes to this, and the representative fleet will receive answers to all the questions he might want to ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e847	That's what the representative always gets. I would like to say that the industry has been involved in this process, also in the previous round, and be aware that there are changes. I also believe that the industry has been aware of this and, of course, I accept that there may be increases in the level that has been outlined in the national budget – i.e. around 30 pst. – which corresponds to the increase in the value of the equation of other property. That is why I am pleased with the answer that the Minister of Finance has given here, namely that you want to look at the results of this, which are obviously going to be crazy. I am pleased with that answer. I also expect the industry to be satisfied with this, and that they will not least follow up on the fact that the Minister of Finance is standing by.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e856	I have nothing further to add to this. I expect the representative Fleet to follow closely on all steps forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e861	Of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e870	This question, from the representative Steinar Gullvåg to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e873	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Deputy Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The control committees in the municipalities of Nøtterøy and Tønsberg have carried out a tendering procedure for the purchase of audit services. The complaint subject of public acquisitions has led to their breach of the rules. According to my concepts, the municipal control committee must be able to control all parts of the activities of the municipalities, including the acquisition activity. Will the Council of State contribute to the intensification of the legislation of the municipal control body, so that in the future we can avoid such bodies acting as both ‘buck’ and ‘sea bags’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e882	For the sake of order, let me start by stressing that my answer is of a general nature, and I do not believe that I am asked to comment on the specific matter in Nøtterøy and Tønsberg. It follows from the law that the municipalities have the freedom to decide for themselves whether to carry out the audit under their own control or to put it out for competition. It is the local authority that chooses the auditor. This applies whether the audit is carried out on its own account or by a market participant. If the Local Council makes a decision on the principle of the implementation of competitive tendering, it is up to the Supervisory Board to submit the audit to tender. Once the tenders have been evaluated, the Audit Board shall bring the results to the attention of the Municipal Council for the selection of auditors. It is therefore the responsibility of the control committee to prepare the case for the local government, thereby ensuring that an acquisition process is carried out in accordance with the public procurement legislation. However, I stress that according to the law and regulations, the local authority itself chooses the auditor. The control committee shall have no authority other than the appointing authority. The representative of Gullvåg considers this to be unfortunate because the control committee is responsible for overseeing the entire activities of the municipality, including procurement. The provision of audit services is of a special nature. Audit is part of the control of the activities of the municipality. In my opinion, it is better for the Supervisory Board to prepare such a case for the Municipal Council than for the Administrative Board to do so. It is precisely the administration that is to be audited, and it would be far more unfortunate if the administration had influence over the selection of the auditor than that the audit committee carries out this process. Then we come to the question of who controls the work of the Control Committee in this regard. It is tempting to refer to the old Romans in this context, for this issue is not new. “Who are the guards?” the Romans asked in the first century. Well, in this case, it will be the municipal council in the first instance – as the top supervisory and supervisory body in the municipality. In the next round, it will be KOFA, who, having been informed about this matter, has just carried out such a check. In my opinion, the Code of Conduct for ordering audit services in the municipalities gives expression to a reasonable balance of the considerations involved, by the Supervisory Board preparing the case and the local authority choosing the auditor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e895	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Now the situation is that the control committees in those municipalities which have carried out a process in line with the description given by the Council of State have demonstrated that they do not actually have the necessary competence to carry out a tendering procedure in accordance with the applicable legislation. The point must be that such competence is also guaranteed by the control bodies as a prerequisite for the performance of a tendering process in the case of public acquisitions. Unless they have this competence, the control committees are also unsuitable for controlling procurement processes at all in the municipalities. I see this as a significant dilemma.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e904	As I said, it is difficult for me to address the specific matter. But on a basic basis, I support the representative that they must of course have the skills necessary to carry out their duties satisfactorily. Finally, it is the responsibility of the local government to ensure that the underlying agencies have the necessary competence, either in the form of the choices they make, or in the form of the recruitments they make by the secretariat for, for example: control selection. The responsibilities of the local government as a general municipal body cannot in any way be waived. In doing so, they must also ensure that at all levels of a municipal organisation there is the competence necessary to carry out their tasks properly. I fully agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e911	Public and municipal acquisitions are a rather complex process in accordance with current legislation, and also the purchase of audit services. I think it would be difficult for the municipalities, large or small, to establish sufficient competence in several places in the municipal administration to carry out such processes. In the light of this, I would once again recommend to the Council of State that it be possible not to amend the legislation, so that it is possible to avoid that the control committees come into such an unfortunate situation as has been the case in the two municipalities mentioned above.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e916	I refer to my first response, in relation to the fact that there is a system in which the controllers must also be checked, namely through the local authority as the top control and supervisory body in the municipality, and in the next round through the KOFA. I'm taking with me the input that has come from the representative, and I'm going to make sure they're handed over to the municipal minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e923	So we go to question 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e931	This question, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e934	I'm a little surprised by that, but it makes me even more excited about the answer. «An offensive climate policy requires both active government and active citizens, but it is not always easy for consumers to make climate-friendly choices. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make current energy labelling requirements visible and expand, making it easier to be a climate-conscious consumer?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e943	We have already introduced a number of energy labelling requirements for energy-using products in Norway. This implementation has mainly taken place as part of the EEA Agreement. By law, we oblige the manufacturer to label both household appliances and office equipment. Now we go on with the energy labelling requirements. A new Directive has been adopted establishing a framework for so-called ‘ecodesign’, requirements for energy-using equipment. The aim of the Directive is to ensure that environmentally friendly and energy-using products can be freely marketed within the EEA area by energy labelling of the products. Access to the EEA market is restricted to those energy-using products which meet certain minimum requirements. The aim of the Framework Directive is also to put a sustained pressure on this turnover, so that products in the EEA area are the most energy-efficient. The Framework Directive must be followed up with different implementing directives for individual product-types. The political footing has been done, and we are working to incorporate the directive into the EEA Agreement. Through this Ecodesign Directive, we are significantly expanding today's energy labelling requirements. Energy authorities will monitor the labelling through supervisory arrangements to be implemented by the NVE. I am therefore of the opinion that the representative of Skei Grande raises questions about, is followed up in a good way with the scheme that I have now explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e954	Now I have to admit that I really got a little disappointed, because now the Council of State is talking about this as if this only applies to the use of energy for each individual consumer. In order to obtain climate-conscious consumers, one must also have a label showing the energy consumption related to the production of the products purchased. That is why I am amazed that the Government chooses to let the Minister of Energy answer this question, because here you have to use the whole of consumer law and its entire register. I am pleased that the Central Party Councils are very pleased with the EU Directive and its implementation, but it is currently very difficult for consumers to know what climate costs are related to all other consumption. When you have two jackets, two papers, or what it is, and you have to choose, there is very poor labelling and little information about the energy consumption in the production of the different goods. So my question is whether the Council of State thinks it's important, or whether it's not on the Council of State's agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e961	It is a most interesting and relevant issue the representative addresses. There is a problem that is at a very high level in, for example: the question of beef, short-range food in relation to food transported around half the globe before it is consumed. It can be very difficult, even in such a light, to label the kind of goods in relation to the environment, because the producer of the product, initially does not know how far it will be transported before it is consumed, so there are clear issues. On the other hand, as politicians, I believe that we have a considerable responsibility, including in the way we develop our policies in different areas, in order to facilitate – to stick to food – that we should have the most short-range food possible, in order to ensure the environment in a good way. It's not necessarily what we're doing in the area that I now mentioned in my answer. There are significant steps in the right direction to ensure that we get as energy-efficient products as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e970	The left is very happy about that, and I think consumers are also asking for it. We have faith in the use of the market as a means here. If you're wearing two jackets, it's pretty much the average, the color and the price that determine which one you're taking. Does the Council of State really think that it is not possible to think of ways of marking goods other than electric articles, so that we have the opportunity to make good climate choices and good choices in terms of our entire ecosystem, even when we make ordinary consumer choices in everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e977	To some extent, it might be possible. Now I have to say that in many ways this is not within my department, and I do not see how the Consumer Minister should be able to answer that question in a very complementary way. On a jacket produced in China, if the manufacturer is to be responsible for marking the jacket in relation to the environment, the marking had to differ depending on the country in which the jacket was to be sold. Once again, we're back to, for example, transport, where the environmental consequences of transport will vary widely if the jacket is sold in the same city as it was produced or on the other side of the ground. The environmental cost will be very different from product to product. I therefore believe that the representative sees that there are quite clear limitations in the possibilities available to make a good mark, precisely from the point of view of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e984	So we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e991	This question, from the representative of Vera Lyskleätt to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e994	My question goes, as I said, to the Minister for the Environment: ‘Norwegian municipalities have measures and instruments in place to help together reduce national climate emissions by 15 pst. National climate change requires responsibilities, systematic work and clear objectives at all levels. Local and regional climate and energy plans are a good start to targeted work. How many municipalities have adopted their own climate plans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1003	I am aware that about 50 municipalities have created their own climate action plans. I would like to take the opportunity to praise the municipalities that take advantage of the opportunities they have to create climate-friendly development at local level through that type of planning. There are still significant untapped opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through the use of municipal instruments. In the big news about climate policy, what we often call sectoral climate action plans, I will come back to how we should facilitate an even more active municipal climate action. And as the representative and Stortinget also know, I will present this message in ours, as previously announced in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1010	I would like to thank you for your answer. I have a follow-up question. On a proposal from former Environment Minister Guro Fjlangenger of the Left, a pot of 7 million was set aside in 2000. kr to local climate and energy plans. The task of State pollution control was to manage the aid scheme. SFT received 58 applications. This shows that many municipalities and county councils will make an effort, but still only one of four municipalities has their own climate plan. On several occasions, the Council of State has expressed a desire for several municipalities to draw up climate plans. How will the Government ensure that such plans are drawn up by several municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1019	As I said in my first answer, I will come back to Stortinget in connection with the Storing Communication on Climate Policy. That is why I cannot now go into the details of what proposals we will be making in this big message. But I can confirm that enhanced climate planning, including at municipal level, will be central to that communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1024	Thank you also for this answer. Climate research centres have established that municipalities can contribute as much as 15 pst. reducing greenhouse gas emissions through its activities and instruments. Municipalities are therefore a very important player in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. However, many municipalities lack the resources needed to develop local plans. My last question to the Minister is this: Has the Government assessed an aid scheme so that municipalities dependent on external assistance could receive a financial contribution to develop these plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1033	First of all, I want to say that this government, through the active municipal policy we are pursuing, has given all the municipalities of the country a significantly better financial situation. It also means that municipalities have a completely different space for action to implement plans for greenhouse gas reduction measures. I know that, because I travel a lot around Municipality-Norway and see that a lot of municipalities are concerned about it. As I have mentioned, we will come back to Stortinget with proposals for further action, to give municipalities even better opportunity to make good climate plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1044	«As a follow-up to the setting of the Low Emissions Committee, the Left will commit Norway to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. by 2020. Do the Council of State agree that such an ambitious objective is necessary as a starting point for bringing the various sectors and economic operators into line with the demanding offensive needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1051	Norway, like the EU, is going in to limit the increase in global average temperature to a maximum of 2 °C above what we call pre-industrial levels. Realising this target will require at least half of global emissions compared to 1990 levels by 2050. Norway shall take part in a task that will ensure adequate reductions in global emissions. The government will assess medium- and long-term emission targets in a long-term strategy to help maintain the increase in global average temperature within 2 °C. The consultation of the Low Emissions Committee has ended. The Ministry has received a number of opinions, with a large majority stressing the importance of setting an emission target. The government is now working on the follow-up to the low-emission committee settings and will come back to Stortinget on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1058	I look forward to it. I hope the Council of State can confirm that the target number that you may set will be relevant to the Kyoto target, i.e. back to 1990-1991. Then I have a question about the fact that the Storting now knows that the sector-wide climate action plans will only come to Stortinget in May/June, or June. That means they're so late that they can't be treated here until the summer break. What is the reason why the original information to the Stortinget about the message coming in May is not available? Based on that information, one in Stortinget was set to see if there was a basis for a broad climate policy settlement even before the summer. Now we want to be in the situation that the end-treatment can only take place before Christmas, and that means that Norway is standing without a clear policy here for six months, a situation we should have been ahead of us. That means that you're going to slow down nationally, and that you're going to get into a backyard also internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1067	I have repeatedly said from Stortinget’s spokesman that the climate communication on the sectoral climate action plans will be presented in the spring of 2007. The size has usually been briefed on the notification progress plan, which means that the notification will be submitted in May. That's what we're working for, and there's no change in that progress plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1072	This means that the information provided to the Energy and Environment Committee yesterday that one could expect these sectoral action plans to be presented in June was incorrect and that the information provided to the Stortinget earlier on this document that the plans will be presented in May is correct. In this case, I would ask the Minister for the Environment to deliver the notification to Stortinget so early in May that there is a basis for finalising it. If it comes to corn the last day, it's not realistic to achieve this in the course of the two weeks that remain of the session. It would be very unfortunate for Norway not to have a measure in place, but even worse for one not to see which of the measures there might be a broad consensus in the UK. I see this as the government seems to be directing towards a presentation that will give it the end of a losing six months in relation to Storting's treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1079	For me, these questions and comments are a little strange, because I have said many times from this pulpit that the big message will come in the spring of 2007. The size has been informed through the usual procedure that it will be presented in May. We're working on that, and there's no change in those plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1088	‘Norway should set ambitious targets for greenhouse gas emission cuts in order to meet the Kyoto commitments. In order to be able to emerge with credibility as an environmental nation, Norway should have significant CO2 cuts in Norway and not by quota purchases abroad. Can the Council of State confirm that the Government will make a climate plan that will allow Norway to appear internationally as a leading environmental nation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1098	The Government has determined that the emissions obligation under the Kyoto Protocol should be met through a combination of national measures and the use of the Kyoto mechanisms, as the Protocol states, where a significant part of the emission reductions are achieved through national measures. In the spring of 2007, as I said earlier, the Government will present a big message with these sectoral climate action plans. In this context, we will present instruments and measures to reduce emissions in all sectors of society, through concrete and binding plans for the waste, energy, industry, petroleum, transport, fisheries and agriculture sectors, respectively. This spring we will also present to the Stortinget a proposal to amend the climate quota law. The proposal is now being consulted and involves a greenhouse gas quota trading system that will contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and to compliance with the Kyoto Protocol’s obligations. Overall, the Government will ensure through these initiatives that Norway contributes to the essential cut in greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1105	I thank you for the preliminary answer. In my opinion, there are several factors that can help to weaken Norway's reputation as an environmental nation, linked to climate quota policy. One is that we buy a large part of our allowances abroad and thus fail to clean up our own house. This sends an unfortunate political signal to the outside world. The other one is insatiableness. We have recently been informed that the Government has postponed the presentation of its climate communication. The EU and other countries have, for their part, assumed commitments in terms of CO2 allowances. Yes, climate change is, for the first time in history, a theme of the UN Security Council. Does the Council share my concern that these conditions send the wrong signal out of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1117	I would like to recommend that the representatives stick to the facts. I have just emphasised that there is no delay in the climate communication compared to the information that the Storting has received. I also have to say that it is absolutely necessary that we do both parts in terms of emissions. We need to reduce loopholes through a number of measures at home, and we use mechanisms that also help other countries reduce their emissions. I believe that a rich country like Norway also has an obligation to help developing countries reduce emissions by developing technologies that can be used both at home and outside. We have to know that the situation is so serious that we have to have emission reductions all over the globe. So there's nothing either-- or. We must therefore move forward with this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1124	I thank you again for the answer. I agree that we need to clear our own house and that we need to deal with the quota agreement. But I have to admit that I have started to be very impatient about the environment and global challenges. Here we must take responsibility for rich countries, and Norway must now refer to active environmental measures. This is about Norway's reputation and credibility, as I mentioned in my statement earlier. If Norway is going to become an environmental precursor, as the Soria Moria statement says, is it not unfortunate that we already seem to have come into the background with regard to CO2 quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1136	I am very happy about all representatives in the Storting and all the environments across the quite country that is impatient and that want to help put climate and environmental issues high on the agenda. It is a prerequisite for us to succeed in strong reductions, both in Norway and elsewhere in the world, that this is widespread, and that many different environments are engaged – business, local, regional and national environments, within the political system, different research environments, etc. Fortunately, we have seen an awakening in environmental issues around the world, including Norway. My clear recommendation to all representatives in this House is that we must now be able to talk about what action we are actually going to take and that we are moving in the direction that this serious issue requires, namely that we make a strong effort for the sake of the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1145	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Many places in Hedmark are now beginning to have visible effects on other game. Among other things, the number of wolf-killed moose and rattles is strongly increasing, resulting in an ever smaller moose/rattle strain. Does the Council of State see this problem, and what will she do to achieve a balanced distribution of game?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1154	For the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 2003-2004, Rovvilt in Norwegian nature, Stortinget made a broad agreement on the predatory policy. The Stortinget established a management area for breeding wolves affecting Hedmark, Oslo, Akershus and Østfold. A stock target was set for three annual health-nurse juveniles. In addition, the cross-border fleets. The regional surveyors have drawn up management plans for wild game in their region on the basis of the set stock targets. The management plan provides for an area differentiation so that the management of predatory game is carried out in the most appropriate parts of the region. For wolves, region 4, i.e. Oslo, Akershus and Østfold, and region 5, Hedmark, have developed common strategies for the management of wolves in these two regions. Once the stocking target of three annual young wolves in the management area has been reached, the most conflicted family groups of wolves could be taken out by licensing. In this way, predatory birds could affect the incidence of wolves in the different parts of the management area of breeding wolves and distribute the burden between different areas. In 2006, according to the National Monitoring Programme for Robbery, one helnorphic young wolf has been documented in Kynna, as well as uncertain juveniles in Julussareviret. In 2005, there was evidence of young people in both revirons. Several other wolfevir are wholly or partly located within Hedmark County. The wolf's most important prey in our areas is elk. The extent to which the wolf’s predation affects the elk population depends on both the density of elk, the size of the reviral, the number of wolves in the reef and the availability of alternative prey. According to data from the county of Hedmark, moose fallout rates are similar to those previously recorded, but within wolfevir, a slight decrease is recorded. However, municipalities and rightholders have been able to manage the elk stock in areas with wolves, so that overall productivity is maintained. The population can provide advice on how deer game should be managed in areas with wolves, so that any adverse effects of the wolf’s evisceration in the elk population can be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1163	I thank the Council of State for a complementary and good answer, even though I disagree with the last thing the Council of State said. The University of Evenstad conducted a survey in the summer of 2006, a year ago, where they looked at what the wolf ate, and how much it ate. In 28 days, you found – and I underline it, there were maybe some people you couldn't find – 27 moose and 8 sheep who were killed by wolves. So it was one breeding flock. In other words, one breeding flock needs approx. One moose per moose day(s) With such an appetite – and it is clear that you must have food even when you are a wolf – it goes quite strongly over the moose population, and that is among other things. What I'm afraid of. Now the game management, the game distribution and the game policy are happening on the wolf's premises. I'm afraid that the number of wolves is growing, while the other animals are staying away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1173	I do not know the specific report that the representative mentions here. I am concerned that all the documentation and the results of the studies that are done, also come to the ministry, so that we have the opportunity to go into it and look at it. So according to information that I have, there's no dramatic decline in the moose population. It seems that we have a good balance in the ecological system also in areas with wolves. But it's quite right, as the representative says, that the wolf also needs food.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1185	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The council also referred to this with the number of elk, and said that there was a slight decrease. I do not agree that this is a slight decline. There's a big drop in the number of elk. I know, for example. in the case of an elbow team which for 10 years had a moulting permit of up to 30 animals, and it is now in approx. one third, i.e. ten to twelve animals. It's clear that this number shows that it's less elk. It just happens because there have been several wolves, and that these walk a lot. In addition to the breeding flocks, we also have a lot of border wolves in Hedmark. We also have a lot of along the line, but especially in Hedmark, because there it comes from Värmland. It is clear that when you have wolves that go back and forth across the border, it also needs food on the Norwegian side. And, as I said earlier, I'm really afraid of the bias we're now looking to get, among other things. in Hedmark in the case of elk and deer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1196	I just want to stress that many of the issues raised by the representative here were also raised in the debate when the Stortinget agreed. It was a broad settlement, where it was agreed that one should have the number of juveniles that were determined, distributed among the different regions, and that the border wolves should not be counted in that number. The government, of course, bases its policy on the agreement in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1205	‘New methods provide better estimates for the population of large predators. DNA analyses of collected excrements from bears in the last harvest have shown larger populations than previously estimated. This shows a bear strain in strong growth and areas in Norway with very high densities of bear. What impact does the Council of State think the new stockpiles for bears should have on predatory policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1212	I am pleased that we have now received the results of the first season of collecting excrement samples from the bear. This methodology provides good estimates of the number of bears that have lived in different parts of the country during the summer and autumn. This increases the precision of bear surveillance and provides management with important knowledge of bear populations. The collection methodology also ensures local involvement, as a large proportion of these samples have been collected by local elk owners during the harvest hunt. In the summer and autumn of 2006, excrement of bears was collected in Central Norway and North Norway for DNA analysis. A little over 700 excrement samples were collected, mainly in central Norway and northern Norway. 71 different individuals of bear were identified. Most individuals were registered in the Nord-Trøndelag and in Pasvik in Finnmark. The method of DNA analysis of bear excrements provides a minimum number of individuals who have been in the area during the period, but cannot be directly linked to the stock target given in the number of annual juveniles. However, the geographical distribution of the 71 different individuals demonstrates four very clear inner areas: the Lierne, Indre-Troms, Anarjohka and Pasvik. This provides important information related to the differentiated management of bears in the different regions. With a larger number of available DNA profiles in the future, it will also be possible to identify relationships with relatives, for example: inlet with chicks. In 2007, a similar collection is planned in South Norway, which will further increase the level of knowledge. I want to make it clear that there are still the number of young people who decide whether the stock target has been reached or not. We are still below the population target of the bear on a national basis. In recent years, three to six annual juveniles of bear have been recorded, while the stock target is 15 annual juveniles, divided into four regions. Data for young people in the current year will only be available until the autumn. The Directorate for Nature Management has the power to grant a licence to bear when the stock target has not been reached. Last year it was opened for the first time for licensing on bear in region 6, i.e. in central Norway, and in region 8, in Troms and Finnmark. The results of the monitoring using DNA analyses include: be the basis for assessments of possible fall in the licence of the bear in the autumn to come. Both the number of individuals and the geographical distribution of individuals are very important knowledge for this type of assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1229	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That was a thorough answer. These new methods have shown that we have a larger and more viable bear tribe than what we have believed. There might have been an increase of 50 pst. We thought the tribe was between 25 and 55, but it's at least 71. These are also areas where we do not have registrations per year. now with this method. The Christian People's Party is very happy that we get a better, a more exact, number. We've also increased these entries in our alternative budget, but it's now that with a larger bear tribe, the conflicts are also increasing. That's why my challenge to the Council of State is if she can imagine that we're going in and spending more time on reaching the stock target of 15 breeding bears, that we can kind of use the time now when the conflicts are going to increase? An increase in the bear trunk of 50 pst. Is too many a dramatic increase in relation to the figures we have calculated. Can the Council of State be involved in such a process of thought? The Council of State referred to the Directorate of Natural Management's license hunt last year, but what can we do now with the growing conflict that will come?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1240	First, I want to repeat that the kind of knowledge we get through this method is very important. We don't have to forget that the method tells us how many bears we know have been in, but we don't know how long they've been here. That's why we don't know if these are bears that actually stay for a long time in Norway, or if there are bears that are just fast in there. But as I have also said before when we have discussed predators in the Storting: it is absolutely necessary that we see that there is a growth in the number of juveniles. That we can have a reduced escalation on it when the conflicts are large, I have expressed my understanding, and I have said that it is an important element when we consider licensing. But it's a clear assumption from the Biggest side that we're going to have a growth in the number of juveniles.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1247	I also thank you for this answer and look forward to a dialogue. Despite the decisions taken by the Storting on the stock targets, we must have a constant dialogue on how to achieve this objective, while at the same time preserving the quality of life of those who live in these areas, those who are engaged in agriculture, ancillary industries, etc. Finally, I want to challenge the Council of State in relation to the DNA analyses. Does she intend to further develop these, so that there will be a more systematic work? The Council of State said in its first response that it is planned to use this method in South Norway now in 2007. Then Hedmark too, and that's important. Can this become an annual activity so that we see the fluctuations, so that we can get systematized this and see when and how we reach the target in relation to which areas, because the DNA register also allows us to check the viability of our bear bears?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1254	It is quite correct, as the representative says, that we are now planning a corresponding collection of excrements in South Norway in 2007, so we will cover the most important areas. It's clear that when we want to start using this method further, it's because we see that it's a method that gives us knowledge and important information, which is a prerequisite for us to be able to compare and look at heredity and kinship. That's why we're going to keep going in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1263	I want to ask the following questions: ‘At the SV National Council in March, the Council of State asked Light Energy to cut off the gas investment. Instead, we should invest in bioenergy, but in a state like Rogaland, it will require large-scale imports of wood. On 29 March 2007, the Minister of Energy said that Lyse gassing is in line with the Government's wishes. The alternative use of natural gas is to sell out of the country, with similar emissions elsewhere. Does the Council believe that global CO2 emissions are reduced by stopping the use of Norwegian gas in Norway and instead exporting the gas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1275	At the SV National Meeting, I commended Akershus Energia for their conscious commitment to renewable energy. Renewable energy is important not least as part of the efforts to comply with Norway’s international obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. This says that Norway will limit its greenhouse gas emissions in the Kyoto period to 1 pst. above 1990 levels. The Government has decided that the obligation should be fulfilled through a combination of national measures and the use of Kyoto mechanisms, as the Protocol states, where a significant part of the emission reductions take place through national measures. Our emissions today are almost 9 pst. higher than they were in 1990. Substantial changes are required in all parts of society, we should be able to reverse these developments. Renewable energy investment such as bioenergy and the introduction of a tax on domestic use of gas for heating are key elements of the Government’s policy to ensure that energy sector emissions remain low in Norway in the future. So it was in this context that the comment related to Light Energy fell.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1280	Is it possible to ask the Council of State to answer the actual question? If one wants to reduce gas consumption in Norway, it only means a corresponding increase in exports from Norway. CO2 is emitted anyway. When the Government, or at least the Council of State, wants to pursue a policy of trying to stop the use of natural gas in households in Norway, there will be no global reductions in emissions. I guess that's the conclusion, because the council doesn't dare to answer it. I am well acquainted with Kyoto, and I wish I were just as well acquainted with what the Government is actually proposing concretely, because the Government has, as many left-wing representatives have been involved in earlier today, postponed the presentation of its sectoral climate action plan. I remember that the Council of State of Morgenbladet on 30 March said there was a climate announcement in a few weeks. So it's been a few weeks now. If the council thought it would come in May-June, I guess she would say it would come in a few months. Can the Council of State answer this question: What is the total CO2 account by exporting the gas instead of using it domestically?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1297	It is true that all reductions in emissions, whether in Norway or elsewhere in the world, contribute to the reduction of global emissions. It is then necessary that when Norway rates more renewable energy, the reduction of emissions will increase. We must not look at Norway as a desert island in the world. Everything we do is part of either increasing emissions or reducing emissions. When action is taken, inter alia: By imposing a tax on the domestic use of gas for heating, we are doing so because we want to reduce emissions in Norway, which is thus also contributing to reducing emissions globally. Then I just have to be allowed to say that I hope that the representatives of Stortinges hear what I am saying, and as I have now said for the fifth time during this half hour I have been standing here: I have said from Stortingen’s pulpit that the climate report will be delivered in the spring of 2007. The size has been informed by the planning work that it will be delivered in May, and there is no change in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1306	If you're going to talk about being honest, I remember what's been informed to the Environment and Energy Committee. It was that this sectoral action plan should be available at an earlier date than it is now. That's also what we can interpret from the Council of State's own statements in Morgenbladet, where the Council of State stated on 30 March: it will come in a few weeks. If it was supposed to come in May-June, I guess the Council of State, to be honest, would have said a few months. So the Council of State should itself assess its own rhetoric when she speaks externally. So back to the question. As long as Norway pumps up a given volume of gas, there will be no difference in CO2 emissions if consumed in Norway or abroad. If we consume a unit of gas more in Norway, there is one unit of smaller exports to Germany, which therefore has to find an alternative there and would like to use bioenergy or wind turbines, on which they are large. Can the Council of State then explain the logic that if the use of natural gas is stopped in Norway, it is alleged that the same natural gas will not emit CO2 abroad, as the Council of State indirectly claims?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1319	It is true in parts of the world that a lot of coal, oil, etc. is used, which produces higher emissions than natural gas. This is also why in some parts of the world there will be an advantage to a greater use of natural gas. But for Norway, we have the opportunity to develop and use renewable energy to a much greater extent, which results in even less emissions. That's why we have to do both to ensure that we bring down the total emissions in the world and in the global context. We are facing such a serious climate situation that we have to do a lot of things and find solutions that result in emission reductions in many places in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1328	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The low emission sample has shown how Norway can cut greenhouse gas emissions. The sample points out that the development of ships with low or no greenhouse gas emissions is an important field of activity in order to achieve this objective. Norwegian actors are now developing such technologies using natural gas as a fuel and also using fuel cell technology. The aim is to develop and deploy ships with low greenhouse gas, sulphur and NOx emissions. How will the Council of State help to promote the development and use of this type of ship in Norway?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1340	It is important to work to reduce emissions from shipping. A ship has a life span of more than 20 years. This places great demands on the development of future-oriented environmentally friendly and safe boats. Therefore, in the work on the Government’s maritime strategy, environmental considerations, including emissions to air, and greenhouse gases will be key elements. It is a goal to develop new technologies that contribute to this. We support maritime research and innovation. Two schemes have been put in place: maritime activities and offshore operations, abbreviated to MAROFF, managed by the Research Council. Maritime development is part of Innovation Norway. In 2007, the appropriations for MAROFF increased by 20 million. NOK 90 million. kr. The funding for maritime development has increased by 5 million. NOK 25 million. kr. Of the total allocation of 115 million. I'm going to have $30 million. kr set aside for the development of NOx-related technology. Shipping is an international industry, and we want international regulations. Norway is actively working within the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, to adopt new international provisions aimed at reducing emissions into air. After initiative from Norway is now working to revise its legislation on emissions into air. I believe that Norwegian shipping will benefit from the fact that we are now a leading country in the process of reducing NOx emissions. There are essentially two ways of reducing CO2 emissions from ships: reducing fuel consumption and using alternative fuels. The reduction of CO2 by motor engineering measures must be seen in conjunction with requirements for other emissions, in particular NOx. With effect from 1 January 2007, a NOx charge has been introduced for domestic shipping. Increased use of gas in maritime transport will make it more environmentally friendly and contribute to the reduction of harmful emissions. Norway is well ahead in this area. Gas has been used in some ferry connections and in some ships related to offshore activity. The shipping of the future will have to be more energy efficient than the one we have today. With natural gas and hydrogen as a fuel, environmentally harmful emissions from ship traffic will be reduced. There is a need for cooperation between shipping companies, shipyards, equipment suppliers, authorities and research institutions to contribute to the further development of technology, in order to lead the Norwegian maritime industry in the development of modern and environmentally efficient ships. It's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1373	I thank you for a good and thorough answer. It is such that joint and coordinated action is important, both internationally and nationally. We have policy objectives here to land, and they must, of course, be anchored in the support apparatus, so that the support apparatus acts in accordance with the policy objectives towards different actors. Unfortunately, I have got a lot of impressions that people who work in this area and will be offensive in this sector feel that the support scheme is not adapted to projects with a clear focus on the environment and climate. The Council of State referred to maritime development, MARUT, which is part of Innovation Norway, as a support device here. Will the Council of State ensure that the aid schemes aimed at shipping are also harmonised with the political objectives and that we have a culture in which it is easy to get involved in such projects aimed at improving emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1382	The answer to that is yes. I also believe that we have done all this because we have increased the appropriations for both MARUT and MAROFF. It goes without saying that it is possible to apply and get a discount because the appropriations are too small, but to the extent that it has been the problem, we have at least done something to meet it. Then it is clear that this government has an environmental and energy profile of the actions we are putting in place to promote research and product development through Innovation Norway. We will continue to focus on that. I understand we agree on that. Otherwise, I must be allowed to say that what the representative says about coordination is very important. I am very pleased that we as the government are concerned about this, and that the representative is concerned about it. It is also the case that the Shipowners’ Association has recently adopted a zero vision in relation to emissions. I therefore think to a very great extent that both those who are going to own the boats, the technological environments that are developing them, and the political authorities are now moving in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1391	This is how our future well-being will result in significant transport needs in this country, based on the commodity producer we are, and the export producer we are. Our country is made up of fjords and mountains, and it is always a strong desire to improve the traffic supply, including the ferry service. The previous government had a good start with the construction of gas ferries. We think that was a good contribution, as the Council of State was also concerned with reducing climate change. What is the Minister of Industry's view on the construction of gas ferries? Will he help this government also have an offensive attitude towards gas ferries, so that during the period we may see more new projects on the bed in the case of gas driven ferries?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1398	The answer to the question is yes. After the information I have now, there are five new gas ferries that are going to be started from 2007, and it's going to be a lot to that if the government had been against it, to say it like that. But there have been several governments inside the picture. The representative is probably aware that the main obstacles to rapid progress towards further development are practical reasons for both the storage and distribution of LNG – the type of thing – and that in some cases it may be disproportionately costly. But when we increasingly see within ferry traffic, to some extent within offshore traffic, that this can be an alternative to propulsion that pollutes more, the answer here is clearly yes. We're very positive about it, and that's part of what we're contributing to further development, but I don't think that should prevent us from also researching other solutions, motor technology and relative to other fuel worms.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1409	This question, from the representative Martin Engeset to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by Øyvind Halleraker. The question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1412	I would like to ask the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Transport: ‘The Moss-Horten ferry service carries 1,3 million vehicles over the Oslofjord every year. Through its ownership of the ports of Horten, Horten receives 12 million annually. kr in port charges, which are used for maintenance, road/arrival improvement and area improvement. On the other hand, at the port of Moss, which is owned by the State, 400000 kroner are spent on annual call charges. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the ports of Moss are provided with sufficient resources to upgrade and diversify the area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1421	The Moss-Horten ferry section is the country's most trafficker, and it is important that the ferry berth is always of such a constitution that transport on and by ferries can take place safely and efficiently. Fergekaien in Moss was last rebuilt in 1995. In 2003, 13 million were invested. kr i erosion protection of the Moss ferry berth area. The guarantee of erosion was financed from the budget for other national roads in the State budget. Visual upgrade and separation of the ferry berth have also been planned. In 2000, there were plans for upgrading to approx. Six million. These plans, however, have not been prioritised by the budget of the other national roads in Eastfold. In the last roll-out of the National Transport Plan 2006–2015 action programme, the State Road Administration did not record any feedback from the municipality of Moss about this. The state road service was in contact with the municipality of Moss on 13 April of this year, where this theme was up. With reference to the fact that the municipality of Borre owns the ferry berth in Horten, Moss signalled a clear desire to take over the ownership of the ferry berth in order to facilitate the control of the operation and development of the ferry berth. However, the state road authority does not want such a solution, because ferries on national road ferries are part of the national road network. It's Horten fergekai who is the exception on this issue. I agree with the Vegvesen in this. In that meeting with the municipality of Moss, there was agreement to cooperate to find funds for a split layer for an upgrade of the ferry berth in Moss.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1432	I would like to ask a follow-up question. As a landowner, the state collects over time many millions of dollars in income that goes straight into the treasury. Fergekaien and the activity where 1,3 million vehicles wear on the berth area and the infrastructure for the rest. I want to ask the question on a little principled basis. Should not a greater part of this type of funding be allocated to devices and infrastructure, which contribute to creating these revenues for the State, in order to give something back because of the pressures that occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1441	The principle in this case is that ferry berths are part of the national road network. As for other parts of the national road network, it is of course important to focus on maintenance and operation. It is important that, where ferries are part of a urban environment, the local environment, one is also concerned with aesthetics and embellishment. But the principle is to regard this as part of the national road network, and that the ferrying challenges are thus addressed in the planning work that we otherwise have in connection with the highways.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1446	I'd like to ask another follow-up question. This is in itself true, but when we see the project with the ferry berth in Horten up against the defective thing that happens in Moss, it gets really horrified. It is also the case that you have a responsibility to make the environment for those who use this infrastructure more pleasant, and perhaps do what you perceive is the responsibility of an owner, just to grasp such things. But I understand that in this case, both the State Road Service and the Council of State do not see that there is a basis for action, so I will be a little direct in my last question: can we not expect any initiative from the Council of State or the Department of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1453	I am a little uncertain about what is meant by the term 'expected any initiative'. If it means that an initiative to transfer the ownership of Kaia to Moss is expected, no initiative can be expected. But if you think you're expecting an initiative to improve the conditions around ferry berths in Moss, I said in my main response that that initiative was already taken by the establishment of a cooperation between Moss and the State Road Service with a view to creating a fissure layer where you're dealing with the conditions around ferry berths in Moss. In this way you enter open doors. The initiative has been taken. So, of course, it remains to be seen what that leads to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1462	This question, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1465	I will be allowed to ask the following questions: ‘The highways in Oppland have seen a dramatic increase in car accidents with deaths in 2007. This applies to both E16, E6 and Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox Unfortunately, upland is now at the top of the county list in the case of serious accidents, and most of the fatal accidents are meeting accidents. When will the Council of State ensure that these important transit years have an improved road standard with middle parts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1474	In Uppland, 11 deaths were recorded in car accidents involving E6 and E16 between January and March 2007. On rv. 4 no fatalities have been recorded in car accidents during this period. So many fatal accidents on E6 and E16 are of course alarming, especially when they happen over such a short period of time. However, on a national basis, the number of accidents has declined in recent years compared to previous years. For the Government it is a high priority task to bring down the number of road accidents. In the work on the national transport plan and in budgetary work, the Government focuses in particular on implementing projects and measures to reduce the most serious accidents. It has been added for the development of E6 through Akershus, Hedmark and Oppland to four-field road from the south, where traffic is highest. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004 National Transport Plan 2006-2015 provides that E6 Gardermoen–Colomoen in Akershus and Hedmark are to be converted into a four-field road with mid-drawing works during the planning period. It is planned to promote a landfilling proposition for the first stage of E6 deployment during 2007. However, there is a pre-requisite of local support for a partial toll financing scheme for the whole E6 Gardermoen-Colomoen project. The planning work for the E6 further northwards is ongoing, including: the route E6 Lillehammer-Otta is an early stage pilot project for the quality assurance of the transport project, known as KS1. The planning is part of the basis of the national transport plan and the E6 will be assessed in the context of the national transport plan for the period 2010 to 2019. In addition, it has been proposed to start the development of the E6 Tingberg-Tretten in Øyer municipality to two and three-field roads with mid pulleys in the last part of the period 2006-2009, with partial toll financing. New rv. 4 past Raufoss was opened in the summer of 2006. Parts of the route are built with three fields and a mid pull. According to St.meld. No The implementation of the Roa-Jaren project in the last part of the 10-year period 2006-2015 has been reported in 24 for 2003-2004. Plans and funding for four-field roads for Rv. 4 Roa-Jaren has not yet been clarified. The E16 in Uppland has relatively small traffic volumes, and it is only on a shorter route at the Fenernes that it may be relevant to consider mid-stations. National transport plan 2006 to 2015 does not provide for distance measures or major improvements. Parts of the E16 in Oppland have poor road standards, and I am aware that it will be working on proposals for sub-financed development of tolls for sections of the E16 in Valdres. Actions on E16 through Uppland will be assessed in the context of the National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1487	I know well all the plans that lie there, and that someday will come. Unfortunately, the 2007 traffic year has been frightening in Uppland, while, as the Council of State says, it has been stable or a slight decrease otherwise. The cost of all these accidents in Uppland has now become so high that it is cheaper to build out to prevent accidents and reduce the number than to continue as it is today. Does not the Council of State see these calculations, that costs are being rolled over to other bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1496	I think those are very advanced calculations. I think what we can agree on is that there's no doubt that there's a need to do something about part of these distances. This is precisely why these are central sections both in plans adopted and in plans to be made. But it is always this way – for most parties at least, I am aware that it may be an exception for the Progress Party – that road development is being implemented in line with plans adopted here in the Chamber, and it is often a collaboration with local actors, for example. in relation to toll financing. The government's plan for the issues raised by Nistad is to work as we have said, implement the plans that have been adopted, and plan for new measures in line with the assumptions that lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1503	The advanced calculations the Council of State refers to are not what I have done. It's the state itself that has done those calculations. Especially for the E6 through the Gudbrand valley, the accident costs have now become so extremely high that they exceed the cost of building a new road, and so these are not my calculations. Another thing is that today you are impressed with E6 in the Gudbrand valley: you have built E6 through the Gudbrand valley as a simulator. You can go in and see how nice the road is going to be sometime in the future, but for the time being it's just at the simulator stage. Is this how road construction councils say, unfortunately, that we should continue to increase the number of accidents, and costs will be passed on to other bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1510	Now I haven't necessarily said that the calculations were wrong. I said they were advanced, and when you have the kind of advanced computations, I know so much that there's always an extensive discussion about what kind of input you input as assumptions. But let's not discuss it. Let's just relate to the fact that in many ways there's a common analysis: there's a need to do something about these distances. The question is when, and to some extent also how — the use of toll financing, for example. Then I just take it that the representative Nistad is dissatisfied with the tempo, but that at least it looks like we have a common goal that in the future we should not only be able to run the new E6 on the PC or in a simulator context, but actually do it on the road. It will also delight the undersigned on the day it is in place and I am going home to beautiful Nord-Trøndelag.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1519	This question, from the representative Trond Helleland to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1522	I will be asked the following questions: ‘In the light of recent tunnel scandals, bridge chaos in the South and other events, it is difficult to describe the state road system as being up in a position other than a crisis of confidence. Does the Council of State believe that Road Director Slovenia is the right to restore confidence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1531	The representative of Greece points to a number of issues that have influenced public confidence in the State Road Administration for various reasons. The specific examples mentioned in the question have already been the subject of several questions from Stortinget to the Minister for Transport, both in the Question Time and for written answers. In the case of the E18 fall in the Hanekleiv tunnel, as is known the Stortinget in a pooling proposition presented in May, shall be given an explanation of this and the safety of the other tunnels in the country. In this statement, there will also be a review of the improvement measures proposed by the External Survey Group to the State Road Service following the Hanekleiva crash. In the 2007 letter of assignment to the State Road Administration, dated 10 January 2007, the Minister for Transport highlighted the importance of functional contracts for the operational and maintenance standard on the road network. Follow-up to the contracts was particularly important. What happened along the E18 on the South in February revealed the need for this, and the events will be reviewed in their entirety. These include emergency arrangements, standard and quality contract requirements, performance of contracts, and road safety management of both contractors and traffic. In a letter dated 6 March 2007, the Ministry commissioned the Directorate of Roads to carry out such a review. This work will be carried out in close cooperation with the contractors and the transport industry. After such a review, the Minister of Transport will return to Stortinget with the experience gained. The representative of Greece has previously demanded that the Minister of Transport should dismiss both the Director of the Road and the management of the Regional Office of the State Road Administration. The Minister of Transport has confidence that the road manager is the right person to carry out the work to be done in the follow-up to the Racquet Tunnel and in the review and follow-up of State Road Service contracts with the operational and maintenance operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1544	I notice that it is clearly established now that the Road Director has the confidence of the Council of State. At the same time, not only the opposition, but also the Chief Spokesman of the Workers' Party and the Government here, Torstein Rudihagen, has called the case a scandal – it's a road-political scandal. So road director Søftland – and it’s a little more principle – says that he takes responsibility, but at the same time it’s not up to him to leave. Do the councils agree? Or is it that the head of state states has an independent responsibility to assess whether they should remain in office?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1551	I experience those statements in the direction that the road manager believes he is the right person to do the work that Vegvesen now stands before, but he is, of course, dependent on the trust of the Council of State. As long as he has the confidence of the Council of State, the Road Director believes that he is the right person to take on that work, and he is ready to do it. The Minister of Transport has confidence that this will be done in a satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1556	Then I would like to ask a final follow-up question, because now it was very clearly established by the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, that the Minister of Transport, or to the extent that the Government, has confidence in the Director of the Road. It also answered Navarsete early in the morning on the day it became known that the seven tunnels had to be closed, that she had confidence. But then there was a nuance a little later in the day, when she said that the road manager has confidence as long as he is in the position. I think it was a bit cryptic statement, and wonder if this is the government's way of expressing trust in the road director, or whether the statement must be interpreted as his time in the director's chair is soon over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1561	What is the starting point for this type of case, and which can also be generalised beyond the Road Directorate, is that as long as a director of a directorate is a director, he has confidence. And that's what the Minister of Transport wants to say, that when the road manager is a road manager, he has confidence. As long as you sit in that chair, you have confidence. It's that simple. Then you can discuss whether it is right that he has trust or not. The government and the Minister of Transport’s assessment of the issue is that the road manager has confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1566	Question 16 will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1588	These questions have been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1595	‘Previous Minister for Transport Torild Skogsholm started work on the development and introduction of hydrogen and biofuels in the transport sector. The Bondevik II Government also stepped up annual appropriations for the purpose of the Ministry of Transport budget. The low-carbon sample has pointed out that increased use of alternative fuels is an important measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. Does the Council of State wish to step up efforts in the field of hydrogen and biofuels in the transport sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1602	The government prioritizes larger sums of environmentally friendly fuels than has happened during some previous government. There are considerable environmental benefits to be gained by developing technologies that are more resource efficient and that burden the environment less. The government therefore prioritises high measures and instruments to accelerate the use of new fuels and technologies that can reduce CO2 emissions and other environmentally harmful emissions from the transport sector. For example, above the 2007 budget of the Ministry of Transport, 23.1 million has been allocated. kr in support of projects related to the development and use of alternative fuels and environmentally friendly technologies in the transport sector. The funds will include: used for projects that can make both hydrogen and biofuels more competitive over time. The Government will continue this R & D effort on alternative fuels and environmentally friendly technologies. The Government will also review the proposals of the Hydrogen Council Action Plan, presented in November 2006. The Council recommended, inter alia: a step-by-step escalation of the public hydrogen content. As part of the hydrogen investment, the Government has granted a temporary exemption to the hydrogen vehicle from the one-off fee. In addition, the Ministry of Transport, as notified by the Minister of Transport, will propose changes to traffic rules to allow all hydrogen cars to use collective and combined fields, and all types of hydrogen vehicle can now be registered with their own letter code on the sign: ‘HY’. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government is also working on an introduction programme for the use of biofuels in Norway, a measure as measured in emission reduction per year. vehicles will have much greater power than all previous measures in Norway. The program contains, among other things, requirements for blending biofuels into normal fuels. In order to make it easier for consumers to know the amount of biofuels accepted by the individual car engine, the Ministry of Transport has asked the Directorate of Road to assess whether information on the accepted biofuel content can be incorporated into new registration cards. The Road Directorate has also been asked to examine the possibility of biofuels being used in today’s fleet. The government will also work towards the inclusion of 2nd generation biofuels in the fuel market in the longer term. 2. generation biofuels have better environmental properties and better fuel characteristics than 1 generation biofuels. There is also a high potential for Norwegian production of 2nd generation fuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1618	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In Dagbladet yesterday, under the theme car, there was a focus on environmentally friendly cars. People want to drive environmentally friendly. Reducing the one-off charge on flexi-fuel cars is important. The left wants to do it. Is there anything that this government also wants to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1625	I don't think I can be quite specific in the answer to that. It's a budgetary matter. But what is a well-known matter is that the government has had and has been working to see the whole thing in, among other things. The car charges, to see if it can help to stimulate things in a more environmentally friendly way. What will result from concrete tax changes, I have no opportunity to explain it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1630	I thank you again for the answer. According to Dagbladet on Friday 16 March this year, the Minister for Transport of the Senterparti will charge several billion kroner from the fuel tax in a separate fund to promote the purchase of electric cars and other environmentally friendly transport. Is this supported by the Labour Party Minister for Labour and Inclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1637	Here I just have to say that I have not seen that notice, and that it is difficult for me to comment on what the Minister for Transport has meant by it, without having talked to her about it. I therefore believe that the right thing here is that we have to come back with a written supplement to this answer, so that we can get the answer adequate on this follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1664	These questions have been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1671	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The LOW Committee recommends a long-term national effort for climate information and a sustained climate change campaign. What systematic action will be taken in primary and secondary schools as a result of the shutdown of the Low Emissions Committee?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1680	The representative Odd Einar Dørum points out in his question that the Low Emissions Committee recommends a long-term national effort for climate information and a sustained climate change campaign, and raises the question of what systematic measures will be taken in primary and secondary schools as a result of the setting up of the Low Emissions Committee. I very much appreciate the commitment of the representative of Dørum. It is important that the school is a venue for national environmental efforts. Sustainable development is a matter on which the Government is very concerned, and the school has an important role in contributing to increased awareness, knowledge and attitudes among children and young people. Primary and secondary schools have worked for many years on environmental issues as part of the training for sustainable development. Here you can refer to the science curriculum of the Knowledgelift, where the main areas of Mangfold in nature for 1–10. Steps and Sustainable Development of Vg1 provide a natural framework for taking up climate information. On behalf of the Ministry of Education, the Directorate of Education has drawn up the Sustainable Development Training Plan. The plan is also a national follow-up to the UN Sustainable Development Year of Education. An Internet-based search tool called www.miljolere.no, built up under this plan, has been developed in cooperation with professional resource environments also within the environment management. This contains more than 130 guides related to themes such as: biodiversity, air and water pollution, energy and resources. Such activities have also contributed to energy saving in individual schools. On two occasions, together with the Minister for the Environment, I have sent letters to all primary and secondary schools on Education for Sustainable Development, among others. on participation in environmental campaigns such as Spring Day. This is a collaboration with the NRK and the Ministry of Environment to see if spring is coming sooner than before. The secondary schools will also now receive each of their copies of the Al Gore film ‘An Uncomfortable Truth’, sent out by the Ministry of the Environment as part of an Climate Change Campaign. This film gives an important message about climate, and is an important part of the climate information going out to schools. The Sustainable Development Education Plan also provides a professional and pedagogical framework for following up broad climate information and awareness campaigns. By strengthening the follow-up to this plan, we will also be able to follow the recommendations of the Low Emissions Committee to primary and secondary schools as best we can. The Sustainable Development Education Plan is a bundle of systematic measures for climate information and climate change in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1695	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I am also grateful for the basic attitude that emerges. I guess those who go to school right now are the ones who, as adults, are hopefully going to experience that it's possible to turn what concerns us all. I think it was a thorough account that told me how the school is already going. I knew that. I now perceive the Council's response so that there is a tool that we can still use. I also think it's important what the Council of State said about using the Al Gore movie. When I saw it, I thought this was old-fashioned school television, but school television for adults in a way that actually keeps us sitting. I think a lot of people can be in that situation. I just want to ask the State Council to consider whether not the very situation of the Low Emissions Committee that there is a solution, and that it is possible to find solutions in large and small terms, perhaps is a kind of basic optimism that one can try to convey – not rather than the excellent one that has been explained here, but in addition. Because we need that optimism towards such a big thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1706	It is quite right, as the representative Dørum says, that we are now on a broad front approaching this, and it is right that our basic attitude is optimistic, by the fact that it is possible to solve this. The Al Gore film has also contributed positively in the sense that there is the prominent international politician who uses his professional authority to help strengthen this. It is also very pleasing – and I believe that the representative will agree – that there is a greater focus on climate and environmental issues in the general debate, which makes it more relevant now to point solutions. Let me point to one solution that I did not draw out in my answer. We have a wide-ranging real science campaign that I personally face, and I participate in many meetings, not least with high school students. There I often use environmental examples of why we need more knowledge of real science. If we are to solve the major climate challenges, one thing is our own behaviour and attitude; of course, another is the technology to deal with CO2 emissions or other difficult, technological issues related to the environment. In this way I have to say that I am meeting an optimistic youth who likes to see that real science is part of this. It's also part of the broad commitment our government has conveyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1718	I fully share the opinion of the Council of State that real science is crucial. I would like to add that our understanding of democracy's ability to do this is also important – I do not believe that it is contrary to what the Council of State has just said – both that democracy can cope with it, that real subjects are important, and that we have technology optimism. In connection with the fact that the Council of State has pointed to the excellent use of the Al Gore film, I would only ask the Council of State to take along as a thought if he could find something similar that draws the solution, optimism, also for the youngest in our schoolwork. Because I have also experienced, just as the Council of State has done, that there are young people who seriously ask me important questions, and who may often notice it when something is being done wrong – you shouldn't lie. It's quite important then to realize that there's actually a lot of hopeful perspectives up to something that's very serious. So if you could find a similar pedagogical answer for primary school that you've done for high school, I'd ask the Council of State to bring it along – instead of anything, but in addition to what I think the Council of State has really done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1725	I think this bears more and more the mark of a wise exchange of good experience on how we do this better. We are very concerned by our government's success in ensuring that the environment is high on the political agenda, and the school is one of the most important venues for this. Part of what I've been explaining is tools that are available to the school today. The spring check is for the smallest children, who are going out into the wild and see if there are any signs that the spring is coming earlier. Similarly, we had a campaign with NRK last year, which many hundreds of schools participated in, and which we have the impression was very well received. Together with the directorate, we have developed guidance material that the schools can download free of charge from the web, which helps the pedagogue in the work of the pedagogue in the class. But if there are other films or other tools that exist today that we can make schools aware of, the department will of course make itself available. We want to assist to the extent that it is desirable, so if the representative has a tip on it, I would like to accept it. Because I mean, and I understand that the representative agrees, that the school is one of the most important venues for our young people to understand the seriousness and see the opportunities that lie there to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1743	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1750	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘FrP was satisfied with the introduction of NAV, which was in line with the lot’s welfare model. One of the advantages of the NAV reform was that users should have a door to an overall offer of services, to information and assistance from a permanent consultant who should be familiar with the users’ overall needs. Now we receive messages that this does not happen. By telephone, for example: be impossible to get in touch with their case handler. You're referred to a customer center. Does the Council of State think this is in line with the intentions of the NAV reform?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1759	The implementation of the NAV reform involves major changes. To date, 25 NAV offices have been established and there will be an additional 110 NAV offices by the end of the year. There will not be NAV offices in all the municipalities of the country until the end of 2009. In parallel with the establishment of new offices, the Labour and Welfare Manager shall develop new work processes, including new forms of interaction with the public and users. It is an objective that users who need assistance over time should be offered permanent contact person/coordinator in their local NAV office. Some users have already received it. It is and will be possible for users to make direct contact with their fixed contact persons/coordinators. Unfortunately, in the significant change we are in, we cannot ignore the fact that there may be situations in which users have not been given permanent case handlers, or that for various reasons contact with the permanent case handler has been difficult. On the other hand, I feel that the team is working with a focus on well-satisfied users. The public shall be aware of the possibility of getting in touch with the Labour and Welfare Administration through several channels, both at a personal meeting of the NAV Office, using ICT, including various self-service solutions, and it is also fully possible to call or send letters. Then it is important to stress that the vast majority of people who contact the State of Employment and Welfare have simple questions and enquiries. Today, the establishment has customer centers in five counties. Customer centres provide answers to approximately 80 pst. of telephone calls, and user surveys show a very high level of user satisfaction. This means that the user is asked his question without the matter being transferred to the case handler in the NAV office. In addition to providing good user service, the NAV Office is freed of time to concentrate its resources on those users who need personal contact and follow-up over time. The enquiries which are not closed or can be answered by the customer centres are answered by a case handler with the necessary competence. So far, I believe that we are working in line with the intentions of the NAV reform, but there will still be attention to developing and providing services that are as accessible as possible and adapted to the needs of users. Let me also add that I am very pleased that there have been common goals in a broad settlement in the Storting, where the Progress Party has also been involved. It is important for this matter, and I believe that impatience is important, that we demand and when what has been important intentions for the reform. That's why it's good for me to be able to stress that there are no changed goals. We still have the same goals, but it's, as I've tried to say several times when I've been in Stortinget lately, such a demanding and big conversion that I'm asking for some patience in that we're not doing full goal achievement continuously. But I have a great understanding of the question, and I share the impatience that I'm reading from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1774	I interpret this answer as positive, and as that's not how it should be. If you want to reach a customer service provider, you must achieve this and you are in the process of achieving the goal as new NAV offices are established. So the organization needs to be made more user-friendly, and that's also what the Storting had as its intention when it dealt with this. When we also hear that people who have submitted attachments to pay bills for medicine, the money that the users have been given to be refunded, have to wait for months to get their money back, and even experience that the attachments have been sold out on the road, you may be able to ask serious questions about user-friendliness. Will the Council of State take the initiative in rectifying such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1779	Last but not least, I have also received enquiries on this issue from other staging representatives. There has been an increase in requests for reimbursement from public health in the field of medicine, and NAV has obviously been a little unprepared for the large growth that has been in relation to people who want and are entitled to that kind of reimbursement. I have therefore also taken up that subject with NAV, to make sure that the processing time on these matters is as short as possible. Because what we need to be aware of is that too many people have this huge expense, and having to co-finance medicine costs over a few weeks simply means that someone has to take up loans in order to manage this. It shows that now it's important to look at the system itself, whether it needs to be like this. But as long as this is the case, the processing time is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1784	Then we get to the next question I have. It goes without saying that more insured people have to spend a lot of money. I have received letters from, among others. someone who had to spend 9 000 kroner and who had to wait three to four weeks to get the money back. It is clear that an amount of that magnitude may be difficult for someone who has a disability and perhaps no wealth to spend. This can lead to a need to go to the social office to get help with it. It's unworthy, in my opinion. There must then be methods for releasing such outlays, e.g.: that decisions are given in advance and that the bill is sent directly to the NAV Office or to the recipient. Will the Council of State take the initiative to review the scheme, so that these interpretations are released, and that the bill goes directly to the appropriate level?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1791	I think I'm going to answer this way, that I've done the same thing to myself. It seems strange that it should not be possible to simplify this system. Then I take all sorts of reservations because I haven't yet had time to raise the question formally, either in the department or to the directorate. There could be counter-conceptions here that I don't see today. But the answer is that I'm going to raise those questions, so that we get assessments of whether it can be possible, at least in the long term, to simplify this system, so that people with, naturally, little money drop such cash outlays.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1800	This question, from the representative Kari Lise Holmberg to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1803	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘In ordinary Question Time on 25 October 2006, I asked questions about the length of the procedure for the provision of cheap payments for, inter alia, tattoos after the decoration in 2005. It was blacked out that extra resources were to be put into the proceedings, and that the time for the proceedings would be reduced. The main person in the film «Tradra: Yesterday I was a tattooer» has contacted me again. He's still waiting. He's been working on his case for over 10 years. How much longer have the councils planned to let him wait?"
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1812	First, I would like to stress that I and the Government have a strong commitment to providing compensation for the conditions under which the Grand Duchy's cheap substitute scheme is based. Applications for tater cheapening have, as you know, been made in St.meld. No 44 for 2003-2004, compensation scheme for war children and compensation schemes for Roma/taters and elderly harmed children and women, cf. Inner. S. No 152 for 2004–2005 and to some extent St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005, Replacement schemes for children in children's homes and special schools for children with disabilities. The size adapted and extended by the adoption of those notifications the cheap compensation scheme, and before that date the then cheap compensation scheme did not allow for the granting of cheap compensation in those cases for the circumstances in which it is now possible to claim compensation. As a result, the procedure for these cases started to run from the cheap substitute system was extended in the spring of 2005. But I have a great understanding of, among other things, the applicants who have been waiting for many years, and it speaks for it to be done as quickly as possible. It is important to be aware that the adoption of these large-scale notifications resulted in a very large increase in the number of applications, from 1423 in 2004 to more than 3 000 in 2005. I can further inform you that in 2005, the Swedish Grand Duchy’s lavish substitute committee dealt with 249 cases, while in 2006 the Grand Duchy’s two lavish substitute committee had 18 meetings and handled 1,068 cases. There are several people here who have worked faster and better. As is well-known, applications are submitted for lavishness compensation to the Justice Secretariats, such as: is the Secretariat of the Grand Storting’s Committee on Cheapity Replacement. Applications shall then be examined by different professional bodies on the basis of which they are claimed. For the group of questions raised here, there may be several grounds for substitution. Depending on the grounds on which the application is based, the case may be prepared in the Education Directorate, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs, the Directorate for Social and Health and the Justice Secretariats. As regards the questioner, the application was received in October 2005 and has thus been pending for 18 months. The case was sent in December 2005 from the Justice Secretariat to the Preparatory Board. The Board is continuously examining the cases in the order in which they were received. It is now stated that the case can be expected to be completed in three to four months’ time. Then, within four weeks, the Justice Secretariats, which sort out my department, will refer the matter to the Bureau for decision. In recent years, the length of proceedings for cheap substitutes has been between 12 and 20 months depending on the basis of the application. Deviations from this starting point may occur, depending on the circumstances of the individual case. There may be a need for investigation. More information may need to be obtained, etc. Among other things, obtaining documentation from the professional body to which we are addressed may vary considerably from case to case, as well as the fact that an application may be covered by several grounds for compensation, which means that the case must be prepared in several professional bodies. We've also experienced that. As explained earlier, inter alia: in relation to the question referred by the representative, the duration of the proceedings for cheap substitutes has been unsatisfactory. Against this background, a group of officials was set up last year in April and proposed several measures to reduce the length of proceedings and increased resources have been allocated to the professions where the processing period has been particularly long and also to the Justice Secretariats. The aim is that applications for a total of no more than 14 months of proceedings should be dealt with for the preliminary examination of the case in a trade union, which is in the case referred to by the representative of Holmberg. Unfortunately, the length of the procedure for many cases is longer than this objective. The government is therefore working to ensure that the period of proceedings in the trade unions is as short as possible, with the main part of the proceedings being carried out. However, it is important that the cases are dealt with in a thorough and reassuring manner so that the applicant can obtain the compensation in proportion to the grounds which may exist. While continuing to improve the procedures in the trade unions, it is important to be aware that it is necessary to take some time to prepare the cases satisfactorily so that the applicants are provided with the compensation to which they are entitled. I can also inform you that in a short time I will make a deposit proposal for the Storting. Firstly, this will include proposals for decisions in cases where the Grand Duchy’s lavish-responsive committee claims compensation in excess of NOK 200000. In addition, it will contain a message part where it includes, inter alia: will be reported on the work of the LCAs, including the length of proceedings, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1833	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer, which is probably an example of how difficult and heavy bureaucracy we have. A goal of 14 months – that was also the answer I received from the government council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in October. In the reply letter received from the Ministry now in this case, a period of 20 months is indicated. Well, I kind of think that's negative because there's a set of resources, and there's a group set up to work on this. However, there is too long a procedure. State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said in his reply that he does not need to press the Minister of Justice, he is strongly engaged in the matter himself. I do not doubt that the Council of State is engaged, but the mass I think is deserved – that I am standing here today and have this question. Can the Council of State now promise that even more reminders or a new question will not be required until six months have elapsed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1840	It's kind of dependent on what kind of threshold you have to remember. But it is clear that for us who were involved and decided this in the Storting in the previous period, and who were convinced that we would get compensation arrangements so that people would not wait for decades after decades, it was also essential that we had an organisation of the compensation settlement that made it possible to get compensation as quickly as possible. A lot of people are getting old. Many people need compensation as early as possible in order to obtain the best possible compensation for the damage caused by the cases. That has been the background to my initiative to increase our resources both to the Justice Secretariats and to the underlying professional bodies. In any case, I will promise that I will continue to look at further measures to reduce this process, particularly in relation to the projected downturn. But I'm glad that we now have a large volume of settled issues, and that also the favoritism committees, which sort under the Storting, seem to take more and more decisions. It looks like we're now over the bend.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1847	The thing that we're talking about here concerns the tattoos. We also have other minorities in Norway. They have a story that, on the part of the authorities, we have no reason to be very proud of. The fact that these matters are now on the agenda will be followed by the eyes of the Argus in society, and an emergency and difficulty from the Norwegian authorities will easily be misinterpreted in relation to the intentions that the Minister of Justice is now making. But is the Council of State concerned about Norway's reputation in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1852	I'm not. I believe that Norway has a good reputation and in the future will also have a good reputation in relation to this type of replacement settlement. This is particularly true in view of the fact that, in this Chamber, there has been a broad cross-political pooling of compensation schemes for different groups, despite the fact that it can be said that compensation has not been a condition for imposing compensation on the public, but that, for reasons of economics, compensation is chosen because one sees that this is the case, among other things. Infringements and conditions in history that absolutely speak in order to give more groups such recognition. At the same time, I have to say that I think you should be careful in this discussion to immediately turn it into a bureaucratic debate, because I know that the bureaucracy that is going to deal with such issues, whether those are the underlying trade unions or the Justice Secretariats, is just doing what you can to provide information. I can't hide the fact that with any of these groups, the information is very difficult to access, which would actually justify a good substitute. We will also provide it, and I would not like to get into a situation where we have had such a rapid procedure that we are accused of providing too low compensation because we have not obtained enough documentation. So there's a lot of consideration to take, but at least I'll still do mine to make this go as fast as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1863	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The NRK had a look-up on 20 March with Professor Torleiv Rognum, who was concerned that the number of autopsies had fallen dramatically in recent years. Rognum claimed that there may be killings that are not revealed due to him. absence of autopsy, and as such a social problem. I share these concerns, and am disappointed by the government's lack of willingness to take this problem seriously. When will the Council of State propose a mechanism to ensure the central financing of such matters and thus the better investigation of possible killings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1872	This is a situation that the Government is absolutely serious about. In the course of the year and a half we have been in position, considerable efforts have been made to do something in relation to legal expertise. I'll come back to it. Forensic autopsy is currently carried out at the RMI and at the universities of Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø, as well as in some hospitals of health care establishments. The police – and I say this – shall, after the prosecution directive § 13-1, ensure that a judicial equality investigation is carried out ‘when there is reason to suspect that someone’s death has been caused by a criminal offence’. In some other cases, autopsy ‘general’ should be performed, including: if ‘cause of death is uncertain and sudden and unexpected’. It's as I know it, not the points that the police today are not following these rules. The question of financing forensic studies has been addressed in a number of different contexts, including: in NOU 2001:12, forensic expertise in criminal matters. In 2004, the Ministry of Justice set up a wide-ranging working group to address the issue of clarification of the responsibilities of the various administrative aspects of the operation and to propose changes to the financial instrument. In the autumn of 2006, a working group promoted proposals for the establishment of the State Institute of Judicial Experts. The proposal provides for the establishment of an institute such as: shall carry out expert investigations and analyses on missions from the police districts, Kripos and other public institutions concerning legal pathology, legal genetics, legal toxicology and chemical analyses. The report has recently been submitted to the institutions concerned for opinion and consultation and will then be discussed with us in the Ministry of Justice. Further consideration of the question of whether a central funding of peer-reviewed experts should be considered in this context — also in the context of the high-pressure DNA response of the Government. Our general approach is that when we now contribute to strengthening the police, among other things. over 100 million. During the last year and a half of the year in which we have been in position, and have strengthened investment in equipment, weapons and vehicles, police districts are being able to handle expenditure on forensic investigations within their own budgets. In the Soria Moria statement, the government has said, ‘We want central funding for DNA analyses, and will expand the DNA register.’ Therefore, the government has later proposed to legislate for extended access to registration in the DNA registry. DNA is an effective tool for resolving multiple crimes, just as autopsy in many situations would be. If we solve more crime, crime will go down. Autopsy may be important in this respect. And as far as DNA is concerned, experience from the United Kingdom shows that increased access to registration can make the investigation more effective and release police resources. In the context of this DNA debate, which I choose to include here, it's natural to look at funding in relation to autopsy, and especially when we now look at the organisational aspect of how legal expertise is conducted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1891	I initially thank the Council of State for the answer, but at the same time allow me to show that, among other things. The state health surveillance is very concerned because the number of autopsies has actually halved in Norway. They're worried about two things. One is that the competence you possess in relation to doing a certain volume of autopsy is important to take care of. The second is, of course, the fact that possible criminal acts are not revealed because you are not obsessive. Governments pointed out that the police have been strengthened. That, of course, is correct. At the same time, I find that today the police do not have the framework they feel they need. It is clear that when a police lawyer is going to assess whether or not an autopsy is going to be performed, there is a cost aspect that I assume is there. It is also a fact that an overall increase through the Judicial Committee and by a varying majority has indicated that a central funding of forensic tests is sought. Then I expect the Council of State to follow it up and find it quite natural. Is it the case that the Council of State has problems or difficulties in following up the decision of the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1900	Of course, the size decision must be followed up. What we're dealing with here is essentially what we're going to do on DNA, where the government platform has made a clear statement about that. I've said that even when it comes to the question of autopsy, you get to evaluate it in this context. At the same time, I have to say that much of the investigation the police are doing out costs a lot of money. Autopsy does not represent a very large proportion of the investigation costs. We cannot base the funding of the Norwegian police on central funding for one and the other. Such specific financing arrangements shall be justified on specific grounds. We have said that this is relevant in terms of DNA funding. Then we'll come back to the question of autopsy. I remind you that the requirements of the Public Prosecutor's instructions are quite clear, regardless of the issue of diet-benefit and the cost of autopsy, especially when faced with serious situations where killing is suspected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1907	I thank you again for the answer. I record that the Council of State is moving a little on the side of what the question is about. Then I'll take the chance to do the same thing. Forensics are important in being involved and describing the course of events related to crime as closely as possible. In this way, they are an important contribution to ensuring that facts come on the table. The question to the Council of State is, should we use this to a greater extent, let's say at smaller or larger violence episodes? Should regular investigators be supplemented by forensic specialists, so that the course of events can be guaranteed even more quality than has been the case at present? And does the Council of State realize that there can be benefits from doing it this way, that is, using forensics more frequently in other cases than what has been common to now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1914	The questioner is, to a large extent, now asking. There is transparency in both legislation and rules relating to police and courts as compared to being able to attract legal experts in different types of cases. There you do not work at any threshold in relation to gravity. My experience, both from concrete criminal cases before I became a politician and also in the department, is that exchanges of expertise are increasingly being drawn. And it's my hope that, when you have debates about how to organise legal expertise, you get more attention about legal expertise, so that in the future it can be a more important element in resolving very important issues that go into debt or not guilt.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1923	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘According to the newspaper Nordlys on 4 April 2007, the Finnmarks real estate is to close Norwegian large game hunters off the coast of Finnmark and all large game hunts in Finnmark are hereby reserved only for residents of the county. At the same time, Finnish mark-ups can participate and compete for attractive hunting grounds on state grounds in other parts of the country. Does the Council of State consider this type of discrimination between Finnmarkinger and the Norwegian population to be fair, and is this in line with Stortinget’s intention when the Finnish Finnish Law was dealt with and adopted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1932	By the Finnish Law, about 95 pst. by the land areas of Finnmark transferred from state to local ownership. The right to hunt large game is normally a right of ownership in Norway. Therefore, when the ownership was transferred from Statskog to the Finnmark property, the right to hunt large game was initially granted. The same applies to other types of land use normally attributed to the landowner. I rarely hear the questioner asking questions about discrimination in relation to all the others who are not allowed to hunt on behalf of private landowners. This is a right of the landowner. However, the Finnish Law provided for some important exceptions from this point of view. First, the inhabitants of the municipality were granted certain rights to land use within the municipality. Secondly, it was established that people living in Finnmark have the right to, among other things, large game hunting on the land of Finnmark. Thirdly – and that was an important issue in the Finnish Law, I remember – it was legal for the public to have access to hunting and catching of small game and fishing in bar and handcuttered watercourses, as well as the picking of mole for their own household. In this way, the Finnish Law went beyond the old legal status and gave the public access beyond what it had traditionally had. This regulation was broadly in line with previous management practices for the property. It is clear that the Finnmark property is in its full right when it will reserve the big game hunt for the county’s own inhabitants. This is a direct consequence of the Finnland Act as adopted by a broad majority of the Stortinget. It was public access to small game hunting and fishing that many at the time were engaged in retaining, and as mentioned, this access was guaranteed by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1941	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What's been special about Finnmark is that you've been hunting for state reasons. That's what tradition has been. That it has been transferred to the Finnmark property is, to a certain extent, correct. We in the Progress Party strongly protested against it, because we felt that it was going to go beyond the offer of the rest of the population. We note that unfortunately this has happened. I've been hunting for many, many years in Finnmark. I know the conditions quite well when it comes to both big game hunting and small game hunting, and I just record that the conditions are getting worse. There is now a conflict not only between the country's inhabitants and those who live outside the state, but also, in fact, within the state. Is that in line with the intentions of the Finnish Law? Now you reserve the right to big game hunting only for those municipalities that have big game. So you can exclude those who come from the coastal communities. Is that in line with the intentions of the Finnish Law?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1950	The Finnmark property deals with Finnmark property as a landowner, with the rights of landowners, and with the exceptions I have mentioned. I believe that in many ways we have to accept the fact that this type of ownership constellation is given in Finnmark, precisely on the basis of the great discrimination that has occurred over time. People in Finnland, and especially the indigenous people, did not gain the rights we were given over the whole country: the right to own and the right to use the area as an owner – when they had claimed the country, or when they wanted to buy it. It was a massive discrimination against the indigenous people that has been corrected. That is the great discrimination in this matter. I am convinced that the Finnmark property as the landowner will be able to manage the rights conferred on it in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1959	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I just have to remind the Council of State that I have been hunting in Finnmark for many, many years, and it has never been in conflict before – before a new regime was introduced. This applies to large game hunting, and there is an uncertainty that is spreading in the case of small game hunting. That's what I think the Council of State should take over. So I want to read a little bit from the setting of the Finnmark Act, chapter 3: ‘However, the majority recalls that Section 25 Access for others and assumes that public access to hunting and fishing is continued.’ Does the Council of State think that the way Finnmark's property is now acting is in line with the majority in Stortinget at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1973	I don't think it's right for me, as a member of the government and Minister of Justice, to give one or the other certificate in relation to how the Finnmark property as a landowner manages this property, in line with the fact that I'm relinquishing in relation to other landowners. If so, you also need to obtain more information. In the case of small game hunting, this is clearly regulated by the Finnish Law. But you have access to restrictions that include: from the population, this needs to be done, something that needs to be done elsewhere in the country. I recall once again that the great issue of discrimination in relation to this law is probably not about the hunting rights of the questioner, but about the indigenous people – and others in Finnmark – who for a long time have not had the same rights as others in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1982	Question 25 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1990	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘The case of the exclusive agreement between TV 2 and Telenor-eide Canal Digital has now been pending for treatment in ESA and with Norwegian authorities for 7-8 years. It was last up here when we discussed the previous government's St.meld. No 15 for 2004-2005 on competition policy. In the coming two years, what has the Government done in assessing this practice that the exclusive agreement between TV 2 and Canal Digital/Telenor represents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e1999	The question is addressed to me as Minister of Culture and the Church, but is primarily about competition policy and competition law issues. However, I will answer the question after consulting the Minister for Renewal and Administration. As the representative Knudsen points out, the issue of Canal Digital's agreement with TV 2 on the exclusive distribution of the channel over the satellite has a long history. The case began with the purchase of the Norwegian Channel by Canal Digital in 1999. The Norwegian channel had the exclusive right to distribute TV 2 over the satellite. This right was transferred to Canal Digital. In its decision of 4 March 1999, the Competition Authority requested the conclusion of the exclusive agreement of Canal Digital with TV2. The decision of the Authority was appealed to the Ministry. The Ministry, in its decision of 21 January 2000, decided that the exclusive agreement had to be treated as a separate case, separated from the buying-in case, and suspended the decision of the Competition Surveillance Authority. Viasat then filed a complaint with the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, after the purchase case. ESA is still dealing with the matter. Viasat has on several occasions addressed the competition authorities with a request for the use of competition law instruments in order to prohibit the exclusive agreement between Canal Digital and TV 2, primarily through the law of Section 14 of the Competition Act, where the King is given the right to intervene by way of regulation against anti-competitive conditions, agreements and practices contrary to the purpose of the law. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration assessed this issue no later than spring 2006. There are both administrative and legal problems related to assessing the contract as long as it is being dealt with in ESA. The EEA Competition Act limits the application of national competition rules for cooperation permitted under EEA Article 53. It implies that agreements which are clear in accordance with Article 53 of the EEA Agreement cannot be prohibited under Norwegian competition law. Therefore, it is difficult to address this matter before ESA has made its assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2014	I thank you for your answer. I do not know whether it is parliamentary to say ‘nothing’ – but at least it was a relatively inconclusive response, with few political leaders from the Council of State. We in the Progress Party are engaged in healthy competition on equal terms, for the benefit of all those who watch TV in Norway. There can never be a level playing field when a large and popular station such as TV 2 has an exclusive agreement with one satellite distributor. It is also a fact that TV 2 has a special position in Norway because it has benefited from the public concession, which is the basis for the activities carried out. Now I have registered that in another ESA case, the Council of State Gishe has been very active, had many opinions and made several initiatives in both the media and the Stortinget, namely the automatic matter. I find it hard to see how there might be a difference between this and the automatic thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2021	For the Ministry of Culture, there is at least one difference between the automatic matter and this, namely that we are a party to the matter. It slightly changes the commitment when it is actually the Norwegian State that has been filed and the decision of the Stortinge is being questioned, and that is what is at stake in the ESA and the EFTA Court of Justice. Then it is quite natural that both the responsible state council and the government attorney commit themselves very strongly. That's the usual procedure. Thus, there is a question of whether or not the private law agreement made by TV 2 with Canal Digital is allowed under the competition rules – and it is assessed in ESA. There's not one thing that we're a party to. We have to deal with the legislation, as private actors have to do. When the case is under assessment in ESA, it would be wrong for us to go in and assess it under Section 14 of the Competition Act because EEA law also provides a framework for the application of the Competition Act in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2028	The Progress Party has not been alone in addressing this significant competition issue in the media sector. It has been addressed in connection with Storting's treatment of digital ground nets. Even the state councils when he was a magnificent representative have pointed out the problem during the treatment of St.meld. No 15) on competition policy. It is also pointed out by the Post and Telecommunications Authority and the Competition Authority. After these decisions and opinions have been reached, Telenor’s power has increased even more by entering into the ownership of Norsk Television AS and the sister company RiksTV. It may remind you of lack of action when it is felt that this is wrong by the general public in Norway, but it is not possible to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2035	The government is very concerned that TV viewers in Norway should have both freedom of choice between different channels and between different distribution platforms. That's exactly why we're now working on establishing a digital ground network, to which the representative Knudsen refers. This leads to an even greater number of platforms choosing between and increasing competition between different distributors. As far as I remember, the party of Knudsen has been opposed to building out the digital ground net, at least the way it is now being established. I am of the opinion that when we get more platforms, the pressure on the satellite platform will also increase in relation to competition. In particular, it would be necessary to have competitive prices and a content package adapted to consumers through that competition. With regard to the reassessment of competition law in the agreement between Telenor and Canal Digital, the Government does not make that assessment. That's what competition authorities do. In this case, ESA assesses it under the EEA rules and Norwegian competition practices must also comply with EEA legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2048	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «In the Official Journal of Bergen on 28 February it appears that doctors do not inform their patients of free hospital choice. ‘It’s not laxity or forgetting that patients are not informed about Fritt Hospital’, says Gunnar Ramstad, head of the Hordaland Legeforening. Can the Council of State confirm that doctors are obliged to inform their patients of free hospital choice, and what action, if any, will the Council of State take to ensure that this obligation is complied with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2057	As is well known, patients in the specialist health service have been entitled to free choice of hospitals since 2001. An important reason for introducing such a right was — and is — to balance the waiting time and contribute to the best possible use of resources in the hospital sector. Free hospital choice shall also increase the ability of patients to participate in and decide more by giving them the right to choose which hospital to treat. We know that waiting time can vary a lot from hospital to hospital, and patients can significantly shorten waiting time by choosing hospitals other than what they naturally attend, if they avail themselves of this right. Therefore, it is essential that patients receive good information, early information, on the rights and offers that are essential for their ability to choose another hospital, if appropriate. An important prerequisite for the patient’s full discharge for his right to free hospital choice is precisely that the patient has sufficient information about the choice of hospital. In this case, the Patient Rights Act is very clear that the healthcare provider is to provide the health care seeker with the health and treatment information he needs to exercise this right. The obligation to provide information means that the patient must have the specific information he or she needs in order to safeguard his or her right to necessary health care. Such disclosure is the responsibility of both primary and specialist health services. Since it is usually the decision-maker who refers to hospitals, he or she will be the patient’s main adviser in the selection of hospitals, thus assisting the patient in making reasonable choices. Therefore, we should be able to expect the decision-makers to provide good information on what offers exist, on the importance of the choice for the patient and on the practical implementation of free hospital choice. Both health institutions and care professionals have an obligation to inform about the right to free choice of hospitals and how patients can avail themselves of this right. We are now constantly assessing the availability and quality of the information provided, including: by improving the national information service on free choice of hospitals – Free choice of hospitals Norway. The Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health has also launched an information campaign on free choice of hospital services to decision-makers. As many people here in Stortinget know, I have also started a project, initially in Hedmark, where the residents get help from the municipality to exploit their rights to get rapid health care, among others. by using this right actively. They have been given money to hire patients in the municipalities of Eidskog, Trysil, Hamar and Kongsvinger, so that they can assist patients in finding out the system and get faster treatment. Experience from this experiment, for which I have great expectations, should, of course, be evaluated taking into account whether the system of patients' assistants can also be introduced on a national basis as an additional contribution to the effectiveness of this right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2077	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I know that the Council of State is committed to this, and that it is doing a job. The problem is just what we've been made aware of in the media, that it doesn't work well enough all over the country. And then when we can read that even the doctors themselves express and say that patients might still choose the nearest hospital and therefore do not need to be informed about free hospital choice – well, then the doctors assume a role that they do not have at all, because free hospital choice is part of patient rights, i.e. that the patient and not the doctor have the right to assess this. Such things scare me. Because when the Storting makes such laws and regulations for the benefit of patients, it has to be followed out there. My question is quite specific: will the Council of State be able to contact the Medical Association, possibly through other channels, and ensure that doctors are informed of the obligation they have to inform about free choice of hospitals? There is nothing they can choose to do – they have an obligation to do it!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2086	Firstly, I agree that we see examples that it doesn't always work well enough. There is also a background for us to believe that there has been a need to run a separate information campaign to the local authorities so that they know what they have as doctors to inform about the right to free choice of hospitals. Then I'm set up as soon as we're done with the trial with patients, to evaluate it and see if it can also be a tool. But to the question from the representative Nesvik whether I would also like to use other channels in addition to what we have already started, to better inform about the duty – I stress duty – the doctors have to inform about this, is the answer yes. It can happen both through the Lege Association, through the campaign we have already had against the PCs, etc. I realize that it's not the most important way we do it. But I can assure the representative that I am going to follow up on this, because I believe it is important. And of course, when Stortinget adopts laws and rules, it has to be followed up. Then we're going to try to help, so that it actually happens in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2095	I thank the Council of State for a very constructive and good response and look forward to this being pointed out, so that patients are not hit. Studies show that it is approximately 87 pst. of patients who know about the free choice of hospitals and 13 pst., as you can see, who do not know about the scheme. Then it's important that these too get to know about it so that they can make their own choices. So we know that part of the information that is out of free hospital choice is not necessarily repulsive. It is likely that the Council of State has also signaled that she will carry out a work related to the need to provide accurate information on waiting lists. So I ask that the Council of State also look more closely at this, and get ahead of it. Perhaps one simply relies on historical waiting times, and not just on expected waiting times. But I have a very specific question about something that has surprised me about time: the contract specialists are an important part of the Norwegian specialist health service. They are not private actors – contract specialists are an integral part of the specialist healthcare service. And then it's remarkable that the contract specialists are not on the free hospital choice system. What will the Council of State do here in concrete terms to ensure that that part of the health system is now included in the system in which it obviously belongs?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2104	As I've notified you before, we're working on those very things that know that we're now going through the contract specialist system to see how it can even better be integrated into the specialist health service, because that's important. And there are very important people who work there, who we need to take advantage of in our overall health care, there is no doubt about it – even in relation to free choice of hospitals. And then, of course, one of the things we're looking at right now, the representative Nesvik here is dealing with contract specialists. I can confirm that I am equally concerned that Free Hospital Choice Norway must be up-to-date in today's reality. There must be correct information, and there must be transparency, so that that choice is real to patients. I take note that we have received signals that it is not always like this per. today. I take that very seriously. That's why we've already started a work to improve it, and I hope we'll be able to see positive results in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2113	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘It is very serious that it is recorded approximately annually. 2 200 new cases of lung cancer in Norway, and that the mortality rate of the disease is as high as 30 years ago, i.e. about 90 pst. Early diagnosis is crucial for survival. It is therefore important to introduce specific measures for risk groups, including: COLS-capped and those who have been big smokers for a long time. How does the Council of State assess the needs and possibilities of screening with advanced CT/MR technologies and/or of introducing other measures for risk groups?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2122	It is quite right that the representative, Mr Bøhler, points out that there has been no improvement in the predictions of lung cancer since the 1960s. However, today we know a lot about how lung cancer and other lung diseases can be prevented. The Social and Health Directorate has informed that common X-rays are not suitable for the screening of lung cancer. Spiral-CT is an alternative that detects slight changes in the airways and can therefore become a potential instrument when screening for lung cancer in the future. However, pulmonary screening of risk groups has not yet been demonstrated to increase survival. In addition, the method is resource-requiring and must be followed up with further investigations to reveal any false positive tests. But I can confirm that we are following developments carefully and awaiting results from international research projects that are in progress before we can consider introducing pulmonary screening of risk groups. In the National Cancer Strategy, which the representative of Bohemia knows well, and which the Government launched last May, we have said that we will continuously review new screening programmes and extend existing schemes to other age groups. The World Health Organisation has set up some criteria for the implementation of screening programmes that should be met. Among other things, the overall benefit of a screening programme should be greater than the disadvantages. Disadvantages would be that a test detects cancer without it, or that the test does not reveal that it is cancer – so-called false positive or false negative tests. In addition, the programme must be assessed against other types of intervention, such as: prevention strategies, which have a long-term impact and at much lower costs. Large and costly screening efforts can easily affect other primary prevention measures. At least we have to know that the program works, if we're going to start it. It is important for the Government that screening programs work as intended, i.e. that they are detectable to reduce mortality in the groups being screened. The only X-ray screening carried out on large sections of the population, which to date has demonstrated a gain, is mammography research to detect breast cancer, mainly for women over 50 years of age. We know that almost 90 pst. by anyone who has lung cancer, smokes, and that the incidence of lung cancer is strongly reflected in the smoking pattern in the population. We also know that prevention is possible. The main emphasis of Regeninga’s work against lung diseases lies in smoking and training of health professionals. The national tobacco prevention strategy 2006–2010 proposes, as is well known, inter alia: to strengthen the role of health care – where necessary – and involvement in smoking withdrawal as well as the training of relevant health professionals in maternity care, health centres and school health services. The tobacco prevention work, as is well known, is also central to the national COLS strategy, launched last November, with the aim of reducing the proportion of people with COPD. As I have mentioned, a number of diagnostic groups are being considered for screening in Norway. Screening in connection with, inter alia: Pulmonary cancer is assessed, but we believe that the criteria for introducing this are not met per. today. Until there is evidence of the efficacy of pulmonary screening, we want to focus on prevention of lung cancer. But again, I'm following developments carefully and I'm now awaiting international investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2141	I thank the Council of State for an interesting answer in a very important matter. It's a special group we're talking about -- the treatment forecast is so bad. Approximately 2,000 die annually in Norway from lung cancer. It's a dramatic number. I read in Dagbladet that State Secretary Libak, in connection with the same problem, said that he wanted the tenets to largely refer vulnerable groups to screening when there was a suspicion of possible disease. I hope that we can adopt a somewhat more active attitude when it comes to trying to screen, for example. select a population or specific risk groups – such as: COLS-capped or people who have smoked for a long time and who are of old age – because we don't get any evidence of a win until we've started an attempt to screen smaller groups. MRI, magnetic resonance, I guess, is the safest method.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2148	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative of Bohemia that this is an important matter. It's dramatic that so many people get sick every year, and so many die of the disease. I can only confirm what Secretary of State Libak said – to Dagbladet, it was well – that we want to make the decision-makers aware that they have to be better off referring to the most vulnerable groups or target groups to which it is important to put in extra effort, to screening or further investigations. I'm taking with me the signals from representative Bøhler about piloting – we'll have to assess it in more detail. At the same time, I believe that the most important thing is to do what we can to prevent — as long as we know that smoking is such a major cause of this type of disease — and put the main bump in there. But of course, we also have to do what we can to detect the disease as early as possible. We know that in the case of such serious diseases, it is important to have the diagnosis made early – then the forecasts will also be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2157	I also thank you for the additional reply. At all, this disease has had little attention in the research community — there has been little pressure on developing treatments for lung cancer. This may be because the disease has a poor record, that there has been a sort of attitude that the disease may not have the same cause as other diseases, and that therefore one has not put sufficient effort into the work. It has been said that prevention is needed — and perhaps not enough work has been done to develop new treatment methods. I have heard that, among other things, at the Rikshospitalet, tests are ongoing concerning a therapeutic vaccine against lung cancer. I hope that the Council of State will follow up on this, and press on the attempts to develop new treatments for this very deadly disease, against which we must make a much more effective effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2166	I can confirm that I am most closely involved. And of course, I'm very interested if it's possible to come up with vaccines, new treatments or other treatments that can prevent so many people from becoming so seriously ill, and that many people die of the disease. I can otherwise inform you that in the United States they started a study in 2002 in which 50 000 people with high risk of lung cancer are being screened. There is a programme that goes over three years, and they will then be followed up for another four years. In addition to what we choose to do here in Norway, this will be a very important contribution to finding out about it, for example. is screening – combined with other methods – that is the answer, or whether there is other that is more effective. I fully agree with Mr Bøhler that this is an area on which more attention needs to be paid and which needs to be given a higher status. We need to look at what more we can do to help the people who get this disease – and preferably do what we can to avoid them getting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2197	These questions don't go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2204	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Health: ‘The global temperature increase due to climate change will have many consequences. One of the consequences is that the spread and flowering of tropical diseases are likely to be emerging. Malaria is an example of these diseases that can reach Scandinavia due to increased temperature. Has the Council considered the potential for tropical diseases to reach Norway, and what action will the Council of State take to meet these challenges both in Norway and in international cooperation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2213	The greatest health risk of global and local warming is considered to be an increase in the prevalence of diseases transmitted by carriers, such as: mosquitoes, ticks or snails, known as vector-borne diseases. Diseases are spreading because such insects and animals are spreading faster and increase in number when temperature rises. The spread of malaria and other severe fever diseases spread with insects, snails, owls or other small-scale creeps is feared internationally. The National Institute for Public Health states that it is very difficult to predict how different animals and insects are spreading in changing climatic conditions. Although a new species is established in an area, it is difficult to predict its importance as a vector. Many factors are involved. Dutch researchers have estimated that a temperature increase of 3–5 °C on the soil could lead to 50–80 million more malaria cases per year. This is in addition to the 500 million people affected by malaria every year. One estimates that large parts of the United States, up to the border with Canada, southern and central Europe, Turkey, South Russia, China and Japan can experience malaria. Malaria was, as you know, naturally present in northern Europe, also in southern Norway, until the 20th century. Malaria mosquitoes are still present in Norway and can therefore spread if the conditions permit. In Norway, between 50 and 60 people take malaria with them from abroad every year. Theoretically, therefore, there is an opportunity for malaria to spread here in the country. But there are two important reasons why the probability of it is small. One reason is that patients with malaria are treated so that the mosquito cannot suck infected blood and spread it further. The second reason is that this mosquito feeds on domestic animals, and so it's about areas that are now sparsely populated. Thanks to Norway's well-developed health services, we are fortunate to have imported new diseases. To a large extent, we can improve the health effects of climate change through a well-functioning monitoring system for infectious diseases. In this way, we can quickly discover any new diseases that are spreading. It will be essential to maintain a good health care system, so that disease is treated early and the risk of spreading is eliminated altogether or at least. Good infectiveness and good water supply and infrastructure are other important prerequisites. In the event of crises such as: floods and storms, we need to provide good information to the population and good preparedness to deal with such situations. Furthermore, we need to monitor the development of vector animals and insects in Norway and in our neighbourhoods. We also need to ensure that travellers receive factual information about the health hazards of travel abroad. Through international cooperation, we need to ensure that we always have up-to-date knowledge of health conditions and risks in other countries. The World Health Assembly adopted a new International Health Regulation in May 2005. This Regulation shall ensure that the world community initiates the necessary measures to limit the spread of infectious diseases. Norway has had a driving role in these negotiations, and proposals for a new regulation on such a health regulation are in the process of being consulted. In addition to the measures we have today, the Government will not set up in too long a steering group under the direction of the Ministry of the Environment to develop a strategy for the future work on climate adaptations in Norway. The Secretariat shall be added to the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. Health consequences of climate change will also be covered by this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2231	I thank you for your thorough answer. Although it's pretty thin with representatives in the hall, I'll try to make a little concrete of what the Council of State and I are now discussing. The councils are called fleets. It's forest bear, as far as I understand. As the Council of State was in it, it is a fact that fleet expansion has increased in Norway in recent years. Although the reasons are not clear, it is likely that climatic conditions have a direct or at least indirect impact on this spread. Infectious diseases follow the fleet. It was the councils inside. Lyme disease and viral coagulopathy are examples of such infections. My question to the Council of State will be: does the Council see any correlation between increased fleet deployment in Norway and climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2240	It's very hard to be completely bastful on that question. Nor can I say that I have detailed knowledge of the fleet in particular. I'm sorry. When climate change occurs, it is clear that, theoretically, it can also give us challenges. But the difference between us and very many other countries in the world that are significantly worse off is that we have a very good surveillance. We're very close to what happens to the species, and what it can lead to by diseases. We have good preparedness and surveillance in terms of infectious diseases, and we do not at least have a very good – after all – improved health care that, unlike very many other countries, we can provide rapid treatment when necessary. We come from the government side of course to follow this very closely. That is why we are now setting up a separate steering group to look at what the climate change that is going on can mean for our health and also internationally, and we will continue to play the driving role in relation to the new international health regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2249	I thank you again for your answer. I only wanted to tell a story from a few years ago, when malaria was almost unknown in Norway – one barely knew what it was. This was at Svalbard of all places. There's one hospital. It was another government council that was Minister of Health that time, simply Gudmund Hernes. We were on sight at that hospital. They had one patient -- I'm still thinking that he was shivering under a dungeon. He had malaria. So we see that it can happen to most people. And in the same way that we discussed indoor climate issues yesterday, it's about doing to focus on it. Finally, it might be interesting to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State or the Ministry have a strategy for public information on the new species of disease, which will certainly come?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2258	I just want to stress that the government is following this development very closely. That's why we put down groups that have to follow it in particular. It is also true, as the representative says, that malaria mosquito is present in Norway. And as I said, every year, there are some people who go abroad and bring malaria infection back. So theoretically, there is no doubt that it can spread here in the country, too, if we are not aware, and if no necessary action is taken. But we have a good treatment system. And again, the mosquito that gives malaria infection feeds on domestic animals. This is about areas where there are few people living, but it is clear that we are constantly considering what we have to do. So it's clear that information is very central. I mentioned that when there are floods and storms, for example, it is very important that the population is informed about how to handle it in order to avoid infection. I take with me the signals from the representative Ludvigsen in relation to this important question, also in the work we are now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-18.ana.ud2066e2278	This question falls away. Thus, the ordinary questionnaire is above, and the current map is finished.
