ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e30	The establishment of a stand-alone supervisory board has, as several have mentioned, been discussed several times in this room in the last few months. I have from the first day made it clear that the Stortinget will have the matter discussed during the spring. In recent years, the issue has also been assessed by different selections and governments, but it has not been considered as a matter of priority to move forward with the idea of establishing such supervision. What updated the discussion this time was, of course, razed in the Hanekleiv tunnel in Rome. As Stortinget is well known, I set up a review team that looked at the causes of the race, and also made proposals to avoid similar events in the future. That group handed over their work to me on February 15. The report criticises the work done by the State Road Administration in the construction of the tunnel, and also proposes how this work could be organised and carried out in a better way, as well as being critical of some more general developments in the construction industry. Since the construction of the Hanekleiv tunnel about ten years ago, the state road system has undergone extensive organisational changes, including: has been established by Mesta, which means that Vegvesen today has no own production or work under its own control. This is important to keep in mind in the further discussion on the follow-up of the breed. At the same time, this does not necessarily mean that the tasks performed by the State Road Service cannot be organised in a better way. As a minister responsible for road safety, I will make a thorough assessment of whether it is advisable to establish such supervision in the manner I have promised the Stortingen Spring. Of course, I would like to draw the exchange of experiences from the independent monitoring body for railway operations and for aviation. In addition, I would like to take with me the experience that has been gained in our neighbouring countries. I have noticed that the minority in the Committee refers to experience in Sweden and refers to the Road Traffic Inspectorate as a stand-alone body of oversight tasks, and the organisation of this body can be a starting point for a stand-alone roadside supervision in Norway. I would like to point out that Sweden can hardly be said to have any independent supervision in the road sector. The Road Traffic Inspectorate is a body governed by the Swedish Road Administration and has tasks which, in my opinion, are not the same as those of our Norwegian authorities. In order to show this, I will refer to the 2007:4 state public investigation published in January of this year: «Since 2003 the Road Traffic Inspectorate has been a unit of the Road Transport Agency. The Road Traffic Inspectorate has no authority data, i.e.: is not responsible for the provision of standards, authorisation or supervisory flexibility in the way that the Board of Railways, the Board of Aviation and the Maritime Inspection do. The Road Traffic Inspectorate does not have sufficient oversight mandates nor does it have sufficient tools to guide operators to take action." So then the question of the proposers is that a roadside supervision should be organised as an under-use of the Road Directorate, as one dragged the Swedish Road Traffic Inspectorate as a leading example. My starting point is that in the representation I have promised Storting, it is to ensure the best possible use of the resources available at any time, so that we all get the most security and the most possible way for the money. If, through the work we are now doing, it turns out that this can best be done through a stand-alone roadside supervision, I will of course consider this. Through the things that come to us, the Storting will at least have a basis for assessing which kind of organization is reasonable, and I have a lot of understanding that the majority sees that Storting is best placed to handle such a matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e50	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e53	As the Council of State knows, the Progress Party has a slightly different proposal, namely on a transport regulatory framework – a comprehensive transport regulatory framework. My question then goes on. In fact, the 2008 Commission on Disasters will cover all transport sectors. This government supports such a solution. Once it has been clearly considered good for accident investigation purposes, what should be the contradiction that it cannot also work well in the prevention of accidents through supervision? In other words, a parallel model for the Disaster Commission will be the Progress Party's proposal for a Transport Surveillance Authority. What would prevent such a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e60	I don't want to go into simplicity today in what might be reasonable and not. We're working on an assessment of this in the department. As I have explained in the Storting several times before, we got to grips with this. Contrary to what the previous government did after the accident in the Oslo Earth Tunnel, this government has taken this seriously. So we have a work to do. Before that work is finished, I will not go into discussions about different models, different shapes, advantages and disadvantages of roadside supervision. I see disadvantages, but there are certainly some advantages that we should consider. As I said before, the Council of State has chosen to have an open attitude to this until I have a professional basis on which to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e67	I understand that the Council of State does not want to conclude today. But based on the signals given by the majority parties, she says she's against it until now. It's probably so that when the council says she should be for, she's for. But enough about it. I think it would have been interesting to hear a little about the experience of railway supervision and aviation oversight. Does the Council of State feel that this is a good experience? And does she see that there is a parallelity to the road sector, which, after all, is the sector where most passengers or most travellers travel every day? Finally, I would like to point out that, among other things. The representative, Mr Glüsth, was concerned about more bureaucracy. Now, the Council of State has just been at the Central Party national meeting and has lost a vote there, unfortunately, so I will ask a final question: is it more likely that the Council of State will be in favour of independent roadside supervision than she will be in favour of the decision at the Central Party's national meeting to increase the number of road offices from 5 to 19?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e76	To take the last first. The Central Party's national meeting has made a clear decision, which was not surprising to the Council of State, to say it. That decision is in line with both our programme and what we have said in other forums, so I think we can handle it further. What a chance such a suggestion would have, we'll come back to it. It is important for me to say that proposals for roadside supervision have not been discussed in the party groups, so one says here, saying one without us having been involved in neither professional nor political discussions on this. We have 90,000 km of road, and we have 4,000 km of railway. That's a little bit of a difference. When it comes to aviation, it is also more limited. This is a very important area, and we need to look at how much roadside supervision we need, because if this roadside inspection is to work if we create it, the idea is that it should be able to do a job. Economic and organisational requirements are also required.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e85	In addition to the fall in the Hanekleiv tunnel, we have had some unfortunate episodes of poor littering and brewing in winter. A sub-director of the Air Traffic Control reports to Aftenposten that similar conditions on a runway would lead to the closure of the aerodrome. Does the Minister for Transport see that similar supervision in the road sector could play the same role and take the necessary steps as the Air Safety Authority would take, and that this reinforces the need for roadside surveillance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e92	The road was now blocked. Many roads around our country are being shut down. In case of risk of race, a road closes. When the weather forecast is so high that you can see that there is a danger to traffickers, you close a road over the mountain. There's nothing new about doing it. That mandate has been given by the State Road Administration today, and that mandate is also being used today when there may be a risk to the safety of road users. When it comes to the parallel to aviation, it's exactly the same assessments that are made, but it's a little bit stricter per year. Today for aviation, for the consequences there may be much greater because the speed is so much higher. But it's just that connection that's been criticized, that one couldn't keep the road open. With a wide-ranging road traffic monitoring mandate, we may have to expect many more connected roads around our country – perhaps.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e99	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e104	A few comments on the tame of this debate. Aviation has its own oversight, the Air Safety Authority. The railway has its own oversight, the Railway Authority. The supervision has a common methodology, and we in the Progress Party believe that a common professional environment for the supervision of the whole transport sector can provide a stronger and more efficient transport supervision that takes care of both social and road interests. I understood the case rapporteur from the Central Party so that there was a bit of detention, among other things. because of the cost picture. So we're going to notice that you're more concerned with saving some of the costs here than keeping it at 300 million. kr that the reorganisation of the Road Administration has given. So you're going to spend $300 million. to return the road offices to the counties, but refuses to make an effective and well-functioning overall transport supervision, as we have chosen to do in the case of the Waterfall Commission, in order to follow up the small line. So we have chosen the system and methodology for the Commission of the Sea, which from 2008 will cover all transport sectors. We in the Progress Party find it difficult to see that there should be a poor solution in terms of the supervisory model. As others have explained, some parties have met with tone-provoking players in the transport sector, and they also show that overall supervision can be of interest. We want a change in the Road Traffic Act, so that the road keeper, who owns the road, has an actual responsibility for the road being in proper condition. A small line to the representative Sahl: we have recent investigations, including: from Sweden, which shows that three out of four fatal accidents are due to the standard on the road. It is therefore of great importance that the caretaker also has a responsibility, a liability, if the road does not keep track. Finally, the Council of State has also again said that she is open to assessment, and that is good. We in the Progress Party do not like the form of assessment in which we get this in terms of collective proposals, that important things come in terms of bringing together proposals for the Stortinget, for that matter also in terms of the main proposal, in the State budget. We believe that important matters should be dealt with individually, and so should this matter when the Council of State and the Department conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e120	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2307]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e136	I would just like to clarify the representation and rights of the merged companies, since there is nothing to that effect in the committee's comments that might have to be short and concise in this matter. The Directive implies that they will be entitled to represent themselves in the governing body, but the scope of the right of representation will depend on the outcome of negotiations. They are granted the right of consultation provided for in Article 16. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is responsible. They aim to send suggestions to the regulations on hearing during the spring. It follows from Article 16 of the Directive that, if the national rules applicable to the merged company do not grant them at least equal rights of representation to which they already had in the company merging, they shall be negotiated with a view to their being added to the right of consultation. If the parties agree on an agreement, it is the agreement which will determine the representation of them in the governing body of the merged company. If, however, the parties are not members, their representation shall be regulated by the standard features of Directive 2001/86/EC. The standard claims state that they are entitled to choose the number of members of the leasing or supervisory body of the merged company corresponding to the highest proportion in the companies in question before the merger took place. Thus, the standard terms are based on the so-called pre-principle; on the continuation of the rights of employees in the merged company. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, with the exception of the rules on admission representation, the Directive regulates only the aspects of company law of a cross-border merger. For other jurisdictions, such as: tax law and accounting law are therefore the national law of each country that will be in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e151	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2308]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e159	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e166	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 7, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 8-12, by Mr Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 13, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 14, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to put in place a probationary system under the new Employment and Welfare Act which gives long-term beneficiaries of social assistance the right to a salary of 2,5 G. In the first instance, the test project should be carried out in 10 different municipalities within a 60 MIU framework. crowns per year.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e199	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e214	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-12, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e256	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e271	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e333	During the debate, Kari Kjønaas Kjos put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e355	During the examination of case No. Three decisions have been taken, and the President refers to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e362	During the debate, Mr Solholm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government, in the context of the proposal for the revised national budget for 2007, to submit proposals for changes to the requirement of three years’ residence before social security rights reoccur after residence abroad, in line with the intentions set out in Decision No. 346, 11 May 2006’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e391	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Øyvind Halleraker, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the right and left. 2 by Øyvind Halleraker, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 4-7, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Party of Progress There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e442	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e457	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e472	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e501	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2-4, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e540	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The President understands that the Progress Party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal. - It's nodding. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-2.ana.ud1383e670	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
