ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e29	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Odelsting meeting today and for the remaining meetings in May – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Åsa Elvik, Dagfinn Sundsbø and Heikki Holmås. – Other proposals are not available, and Åsa Elvik, Dagfinn Sundsbø and Heikki Holmås are unanimously elected as presidents of the Odelstinget meeting today and for the remaining meetings in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e45	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes and Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e56	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for a very constructive and good work on this issue, which is obviously very much indisputable between the parties. This is a matter in which the committee almost crystallizes two blocks. The Government Parties and the Advance Party – one block – fully support the amendments to the Biotechnology Act proposed by the Government. Then you have the Right and Christian People's Party – the Second Block – who have warned that they will not support the proposed changes. Finally, we have the Left, which supports some of the changes. The Committee has done a very thorough job in this matter. Those who have wished to speak have been brought up – either during the Committee's open consultation, in the context of letters to the Committee, or during the Committee's own seminar, inter alia. Biotechnology programme. In addition to this, the Committee chose the last harvest to go to Washington and to Boston to sit in, among others. the relatively strict federal legislation on biotechnology that exists in America, but also to look at what is being done today in research in this area. There has been no lack of input or views on what this law will now open to. The Progress Party believes that there is every reason to take seriously the ethical issues raised in this field. It would be wrong for us not to focus on the ethical issues. I want to do that. I have tried – at least to the best of my ability – to look at the different angles that these changes in laws will obviously facilitate. A lot goes on doubting and believing. What should you open up in this case, and what should you not open to? After having read very carefully about this, at least the undersigned and the Progress Party have come to the conclusion that the proposal presented by the Government is good. It is carefully considered, at least from the point of view of the undersigned in this case. The legislative proposals for amendment are a follow-up to what emerged in the context of the examination of Document No. 8:64 for 2004-2005, from John I. Alvheim and signed. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party, promoted at that time, in Innst. S. No 225 for 2004-2005, the following proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for revised biotechnology law and, in this context, to allow for limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics and research on surplus fertilised eggs. A proposal for a revised law is requested to be promoted as early as possible during the next enlargement period.» In this case, the government has promoted the bill that Stortinget decided to ask to be promoted. Thanks to the Government for delivering! They have carried out the mission that Stortinget gave them. It is essentially the following amendment that is proposed in the legislative proposal: research on surplus fertilised eggs is permitted. We're going to get a conceptual cleanup in research. Preimplantation diagnostics, PGD, are permitted in special cases. In terms of training and quality assurance, it is important that we get the concepts in place and how this should be done, so that we can develop both new and improved technologies. It is important that new §2-14 Training and quality assurance state that fertilised eggs that are not to be introduced into the womb or frozen should be used for this purpose. Then there's another safety valve. It is that consent from both must be obtained, including from the sperm donor. As regards the issue of research on surplus fertilised eggs, there are a number of limitations in this field. It's not full opening, which some people have expressed. Further progress is being made to maintain the five-year limit for the freezing of eggs lying there. Then there will also be a choice between destruction and release for research, training and quality assurance. There is also a limitation that if one of the parties dies, the fertilised eggs cannot be used for reproduction. There are clear leads and limitations in the law, so it's not full opening, as I mentioned earlier, that some people have claimed. I think these things are very important. It's important that we get research on fertilized eggs in place. It is not in the law to open up the production of eggs exclusively for research. It won't be allowed. Eggs used for research cannot be used for reproduction. Specific requirements for research using surplus fertilised eggs are also met. Furthermore, research needs to be carried out in excess of fertilised eggs in specified areas in order to improve and develop new methods of assisted fertilisation, develop and improve preimplantation diagnostics, medical research for the treatment of serious human disease, and genetic modification of germ cells or fertilised eggs is not permitted in the event of possible heritable changes. From now on, I want to focus on why it is important that this proposal be adopted. I am very sure that those who have a different view will even argue for that view. I'm reasonably sure that will happen in the subsequent posts. It is important to get research on abundantly fertilised eggs, because then we have the opportunity to find some of the answers to and get treatments related to diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, cancer, diabetes, etc. But it is also important that we already signal that we are not talking about short-term solutions. Things will take time. We're in the early stages of this research. That's why, as a nation, we can at least let our researchers be involved and contribute to the work to be done. It is not possible to get under the chair that Norway has great opportunities. We have a very good research environment in Norway. We have opportunities to grant funds for research. We also have great opportunities to present this. We have good records from which we can research. Ergo we have opportunities as long as the law makes this right. I now feel that this law actually does. I look forward to the work to be done. But, as I said, once again, I would like to make it clear that this could take a very long time, yes, in some areas. So that's not the short-term gains we're looking for. This has to be seen in a long-term perspective, so that we can be involved and contribute. It is also important to take into account the ethical assessment and approval of clinical research and the use of new methods, such as: shall be approved by the Regional Research Committee. The Ministry shall approve the forms of treatment in which the cells of surplus fertilised eggs are used. In addition, the subject of biotechnology should also be consulted. The main debate related to this law has been largely on preimplantation diagnostics, not least in connection with tissue typing, i.e. HLA. This law does not open for full release. This law clearly limits the use of these techniques. A removal treatment shall be carried out. The conditions for this are described in the legal text. It says, among other things: only in heritable conditions. It says only tissue typing is not allowed. Furthermore, it has also removed what is involved in the special treatment of gender-related disease. It's falling away. In the case of so-called screening for the detection of chromosomal disorders, the legal text available does not allow it. So there are clearly limitations to this legal text. I am absolutely convinced that someone thinks that we have gone too far, but on the other hand, the other thing is that we have not gone far enough. It has also been said that at a later stage, a review of the Biotechnology Act will take place to look at other areas, such as: egg donation. I've chosen not to go into it, just to not get a derailment of the debate, so it's going to be about well, when you do yours, what's the next step? I hope today's debate can be about what is actually here, what decides the Storting today, because the proposal of the Government is being adopted, instead of talking about what the future will bring us. There's only one thing we know about the future, and that's that it doesn't get the way we think it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e101	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e104	The representative Nesvik mentioned in his article diseases which he believes can be treated by stem cell research. It's also interesting that he got into the comiteration that the committee had to Boston. There we met the world’s leading scientists on stem cells. They were probably far more sober than Nesvik was now in his description, and they made it clear that tests on the use of stem cells on humans had not yet been carried out, and that no one really knows what results this research can produce. They said that all we know is that we don't know anything. Then I wonder what kind of knowledge and what concrete results from stem cell research The Progress Party can point to that these researchers cannot point to?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e111	It would have been desirable if the representative Sjøli had heard after I kept my post, because in my post I just said that this has a long-term perspective. We don't have the solutions per. today. But at least that's one thing we know, and that's that if we don't research this, at least we don't get an answer. And there are more than enough researchers worldwide who have said that research on embryonic stem cells can – in my post I said “can” – help to find the solutions. We don't have to be conclusive, because it might take a long time. It could be that in many of these areas there might be other things that could be the solution. But as I say, all we know is that if we don't research it, if we don't try to figure it out, at least we don't get any answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e116	Christian People's Party supports biotechnology research. It gives us important knowledge, but it has to be ethically anchored. Research on fertilised eggs can provide us with knowledge of serious diseases and improved methods of genetic testing. But in the next round it can lead to increased selection. So through new knowledge that we get from research on fertilized eggs, more fertilized eggs with disease can be sorted out. Thus, biotechnology can contribute to the creation of a society without room for people with serious diseases. Does not the Progress Party see the ethical challenge that research into fertilized eggs can lead to more children being sorted out?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e123	It could have been tempting to reply to the questioner if the questioner does not see the ethical dilemma of destroying the abundantly fertilised eggs, as it is today, rather than actually being able to use them for research, if those who have – I kept saying – these eggs, allow it, because there is no full release. I have not seen any suggestion in the comments of the Christian People's Party on this matter about any position other than that they should just be destroyed. I have to say that there is at least one thing that I don't understand, and that is that it is more high-ranking to destroy abundant fertilized eggs than it is to use them for research. I don't understand. Now the representative goes into exactly the trap: if this is allowed, what can happen in the future? As I say, we are going to deal with today's legal text, with the limitation contained in the legal text that we have before us for assessment and treatment today. Then, as politicians and the committee that is actually going to evaluate this related to both research and other things, we get the focus that we shouldn't go too far so that we just get a selection society. At least it's not a signed trailer off.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e130	I perceive that the Progress Party has received a more nuanced tone in this debate than was the case in the Mehmet case, and that it was more heated. I also see it this way, based on the speech just made by the representative Nesvik, that the Progress Party is prepared to have a more cautious approach, in fact, to these issues and a greater understanding of the ethical balances that need to be made. At the same time, page 12 states in the position of this case: ‘These members are still of the opinion that if you can save lives and develop even better methods for the future, we should not fight against the opportunities that development in this area has given and will give us.’ I think that is somewhat contrary to the impression given by the representative Nesvik, because here you add to a stronger line of confrontation, and in a way you shade over some of the ethical dilemmas that actually lie here, and where life sometimes stands against life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e142	Those who have really changed their mind on the matter must be the Socialist Left Party. We all remember large media essays related to, among other things. a former member of the Social Committee, Olav Gunnar Ballo, said that under no circumstances would one vote for what would be, among other things. The government there proposed. And then the government still comes up with suggestions that are just on tissue typing and preimplantation diagnostics. What's in our note, and as this is about, is that there can also be other techniques, other possibilities. Then we're not going to lock the door for it; we're going to have an open mind. The reason why we're going to have an open mind is that this is a lot of broken ground. We have to be open to new techniques, other techniques, and then at least the undersigned and the Progress Party will have to open up so that we can just say that we have an open mind, and we will evaluate this when it comes, and when it is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e149	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e153	I would first like to thank Mr Nesvik for his good cooperation and for a good reason here in the Chamber for the support that the majority of the Committee gives to the Government's proposals. The rapporteur has also presented a good presentation of the formal frameworks and guidelines for this, so I want to focus on substantive arguments. The decision we take on the matter we are dealing with today may prove to be the most important decision we have made in this major period of time in 10, 20, 30 years. The rapporteur mentioned that there are serious diseases, and he mentioned some of the biggest diseases we have here in the country, for which we have too poor treatments, and for which we have to hope that breakthroughs can be achieved. These include heart disease, diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's, spinal cord disease, diabetes, many cancers, etc. Then there was a hope. There was a hope set in motion in the 1990s and early in this century that we could develop a new generation of treatments, a new epoch-setting way of treating diseases, namely by entering into healthy cells, by inserting stem cells that could create healthy cell tissues instead of using surgical methods, and using the various artificial methods we have today, which cause great damage to man and often do not lead to a full life. When these possibilities emerged and this possible medical revolution was retracted, the previous government hastened to impose a ban on this research. We then got one of the strictest laws in Europe. Then it was met in the Soria Moria statement, and a new track was drawn up. The same was true of the Legeforeningen, the Academy of Sciences, Biotechnology, etc. We wanted to align ourselves with countries that we like to compare with: Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland, England, Japan, Brazil, South Africa, India, Belgium, France, Greece, etc. It is the case that research projects are now under way in these countries and in the United States. California has been in the front line, and I think they've decided to spend 20 billion on this in the years to come. So when you say that here's a completely loose mind, it's in the form that big, important research environments in the world are at the forefront of putting in great resources to solve the problems of using a possible new technology from stem cells and getting to medical, great progress. We've seen that there are claims that we're overselling this potential, this possible scenario, and that all we know is that we don't know anything. What we know is that stem cells from fertilized eggs can become all kinds of cells in the body. They have facilities for that, and then hopefully you can use the knowledge that these stem cells can give us to find ways to cure different types of sick cells. It's not just about using stem cells instrumentally in the treatment. It's also about getting new knowledge. If you take, for example: cancer cells, called the engine in tumour cancer cancer cells, and can be acquired through research in stem cells on how to remove the genes in the tumour cancer cells that start uncontrolled reproduction, there will be a revolution in cancer treatment. The research on stem cells currently in progress also has the great effect of giving us new knowledge about the science of cells, giving us new knowledge that can enable us to solve major medical puzzles, so that when large environments, great research nations, the world around us are spending a lot of resources on this, it is dangerous for us to be in the backyard. It's backwards, and I think we'll see in the future that it was right for us to make this decision today. To involve concepts like sorting societies in this debate, as especially the Christian People's Party and the Right do, I think it reminds me of fear propaganda. It's not about dealing with genetics, it's not about cloning, copying people and animals, and it's not about messing with how man is created naturally. We believe that this – ever since we dealt with the biotechnology law originally – in Norway has built on a clear ban on all cloning of humans, animals and legacy plants. That is, of course, the case, even for this legislation. Secondly, we must ensure that this research, which is to be developed in the future, is carried out within a sound framework, i.e.: within a framework governed by a public health system. That's how we can create openness, good control, good lawmaking and prevent crime – which would be an attempt to clone people or to gnaw with legacy facilities. It is important for the Workers' Party that, when we look around the world, we see that this research is being conducted within large global medical companies that want to take patents on the new treatment methods that are being developed and that want to build a monopoly in the areas where they may make medical progress. We have already seen that a large global medical company has taken on patents, for example. the breast cancer gene of women, in order to have the exclusive right to develop treatments in that area. We will be able to see future legal cases about these patents, which are very problematic. One important aspect of this is that Norway, even after taking this decision here today, is committed to international bodies, in relation to the UN, so that this legislation in the case of international patents is properly placed, that in the case of natural genes in humans, on which research is being carried out, no patents can be made on natural genes and prevent other research environments from taking action elsewhere in the world. We should now start a long-term research project here in the country around this – after legislation is in place. We have a large environment in which the rapporteur-in-Office was involved. We have a good environment, especially linked to cancer research against stem cell researchers at the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital. We have the Cancer Register in the same environment, and we have food companies that are interested in the same research areas. It is about being able to concentrate on getting some progress and getting some breakthroughs and finding out what is right and wrong, not spreading resources to all possible separate, smaller projects around the country when this legislation is to be implemented and research is to be started. It is important that, from 2008 – when legislation comes into force – we can also facilitate coordinated, strong research through a joint centre for this activity, where research on adult stem cells – which has come about well – is still being carried out and where there are also opportunities to achieve good new treatment methods. So, adult stem cells are the ones that we all have in the body, but that, like stem cells from fertilized eggs, can become all kinds of cells. Adult stem cells therefore have more limited possibilities. As for the other major questions in the bill, pre-implantation and what is called pre-implantation in combination with tissue typing, PGD/HLA, I would just like to focus on saying that within the strict framework as well as the case rapporteur mentioned, and which is drawn up both in the setting and in the legislative proposition, I find it difficult to understand – knowing that a couple are in great danger of having children with very serious, partly fatal disease, and can face great suffering, and an application for an examination of fertilised eggs is accepted, and one among these naturally fertilized eggs, one does not have genetic facilities, one chooses a healthy egg without risk of having the very severe suffering, the possible deadly diseases that a fertilization with these eggs can lead to – that it may be an ethical problem to help these people in this way, as long as one does not have any inheritance facility or with the natural egg. It's very hard to understand. The selection takes place in a way, whether by chance or by this method, which we believe should be allowed in cases where it is known that there may be a very serious disease. In the case of the combination with tissue typing, PGD/HLA, it is difficult to see the argument that a sibling is created for another purpose. The sibling being born is, of course, a sibling the parents want to do. It's a wanted life. It's a child who gets a full life. It is a child who is not to contribute in any way with organs or with something that can otherwise weaken its life and its growth. Rather, it will only strengthen the content of this child's life that it knows that on a set it has also helped its siblings. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e192	In today's Business Life February 15th, 2006, Jan Bøhler said: ‘To lift the prohibition’ — against research on fertilised eggs — ‘will be essential for the development of a Norwegian biotech and medical industry’. On 31 July 2005, he stated on the ethical limits of biotechnology: ‘The ethical limit should be that we must not interfere with the inheritance or cloning of human children. There is no room for exceptions or slippages here.’ He was also inside his post. The representative of Bohemia therefore places the decisive emphasis on the consideration of capital and industry in these issues, and believes that the ethical boundaries go by cloning. Can the representative of Bohemia see that the need to protect human dignity is relevant in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e209	Yes, it is precisely the human dignity that lies in the fact that you should not in any way tamper with the legacy or the human being naturally as it is created through conception, etc. That's the principle that's the main principle, I thought, for all parties to preserve human dignity and human beings in their natural form. As long as there is a reason, as I have said, I cannot see that it should not be right to help people from living up to very serious diseases, as we do in this case with pre-implantation diagnostics/HLA. As far as biotech research and industry are concerned, I did not fully understand the issue. One of the major research fields around the world, which you work with in the biotech industry, is stem cell research, both on adult stem cells and stem cells from abundantly fertilized eggs. That possibility should also be enjoyed by the Norwegian biotech industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e216	The representative, Jan Bøhler, has a reputation as an industry's husband. It's not going to matter what the representative said here, where it's just about the industry, getting their own gene industry, the biotech industry, and the medical industry in Norway. The representative just describes the sort of thing we want to see leading us here, the fact that a well-defined thing is different. I want to point out the Secretary-General's Life Kjersti City of the World of Human Rights points out: She thinks that the trend in the bill is that one is looking for and will remove those who are different. Does the representative Boehler not see that by making deliberate choices, well away from what is different, there is a sorting of human dignity?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e223	When it comes to the main question, which I talked about, and which the bill is about, about research on stem cells from fertilized eggs, you don't choose anything. What you choose is not to throw these eggs. In the case of the choice made when a couple have been authorised to pre-implant due to a risk of very serious disease that can cause fatal outcomes and lead to severe suffering, and when a fresh egg is selected from among the eggs that are in natural form, there is also no selection other than an egg derived from the pair with all its natural facilities. There's no sort of sorting in it, except that you get the opportunity to have a healthy child. With the framework of what has been drawn up in the setting and in the proposition, that all possibilities for relieving treatment as an alternative should have been examined, that there should be a very serious disease, and that it should be possible to create a curative, i.e. curative, treatment by getting stem cells from a tissue-like sibling – with the very strict frameworks – I cannot see that the argument about opting out is valid.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e230	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e233	The rapid development of medical biotechnology poses ever-increasing challenges for both professionals and politicians. Technology has given many people new opportunities, and many have gained a better quality of life. However, developments raise many ethical issues of human vision, knowledge perception and value choices that the professional community cannot have a monopoly on having an opinion. Not all use of technology is necessarily the best, and it cannot be that everything that can be done has to be done. In our view, it must be the ethics that controls technology and not the other way around. Technology moves boundaries and intervenes in the very process of life and the germinal life. It can affect and improve the situation of someone, and it can keep alive in a life that was previously defined as an abortion. The same technology can interrupt a life for quality reasons. This represents both a security and a threat to medical technology. Medical expertise is left to a control over life it may be difficult to overtest. In the fight to move borders, we are at risk of creating new standards and new demands for what is a viable life. Today, Odelstinget will adopt amendments to the Biotechnology Act that move important ethical boundaries, in our view. Many of the questions to be debated are really about one fundamental ethical question: Who should have the right to life? The majority will take many steps towards what many describe and perceive as a sort society. This is a development which is difficult to reverse and which is difficult to slow down. In view of the importance and principle of these issues, it is really alarming that the topic has been the subject of little public debate. As elected representatives, we have a clear responsibility to draw up frameworks and guidelines in legislation. The right is essentially confident in the individual’s ability to make decisions on his own behalf, but we also believe that it is society’s responsibility to draw up ethical boundaries for such choices. The government has made proposals, and received the support of the majority, to allow research on surplus fertilised eggs. For the Right, this is ethically unacceptable because it means that a germinal life is reduced to a research tool. With this amendment of the law, the majority is in favour of what we believe to be an instrumentalization of human life, where human dignity is violated in the name of technological progress. We believe that it is initially problematic that so-called surplus fertilised eggs should be destroyed, and we believe, like Biotechnology, that measures should be taken to limit their size. One wrong can never legitimize another. Therefore, we cannot see that research on embryos should be allowed because it is still to be destroyed. In addition, there is clear reason to fear an increasing pressure to ‘manufacture’ abundant fertilised eggs when the bulk of the population now opens up for the exploitation of the embryos in research. The Government Parties and the Advance Party place the crucial emphasis on the possibilities for medical progress when entering in order to allow research on embryos. For the Right, the goal can never sanctify any means, and not at all the violation of human dignity. As late as spring 2003, the Center Party and SV stood with the Right on this position and voted against research on embryos. I find with great amazement and disappointment that they have now abandoned many of the ethical assessments and considerations that we had in the past, both in this and in other issues of the Biotechnology Act. Although we are not in favour of embryo research, the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have gone into the rush for a bet on stem cell research based on stem cells from born individuals. Research on adult stem cells does not raise the same ethical dilemmas as research on embryos. This research can also contribute to medical progress, and I am pleased that the Government will continue this effort. I would strongly encourage the Council of State to further strengthen research on adult stem cells. The development of preimplantation diagnostics has given us a tool to sort lives based on genetic properties. The majority's proposal for a change to the conditions for allowing pre-implantation techniques implies, as the Right sees it, one for the possibility of opting out people with disease or disability. We believe that this is not compatible with the purpose of the Biotechnology Act, which is to secure a society where there is room for everyone. Nor is it possible to consider objectively which diseases or disabilities are compatible with a viable life and what is not. In addition, you might ask yourself, ‘ For whom should life be viable — the child or the family? ’ In Denmark, we see that preimplantation techniques are widely used to sort out children with Down syndrome. This clearly illustrates that a liberal line on these issues leads to people who can live a good life with their diversity and with a chromosome too much being sorted out. Is this a step forward, or is it a step backwards for a civilised society? It's at least a paradox that we've never been richer and lived better than what we do today, but yet we're not going to have room for those who are different, and for the weakest in society. As the Right sees it, it's the task of society to make the best possible way for children, adults and their families to live with their illness and disability and diversity. However, the right considers that the use of pre-implantation techniques can be defended in cases where there is a risk that the child will develop a disease incompatible with life. The reason for this is that we want to spare parents and fetuses for a pregnancy that cannot lead to life, and which is most likely to lead to abortion, stillbirth or death in early childhood. The most controversial point in the majority's bill is about so-called donor children or the assistant sister. For the right, it is ethically unsustainable that by combining preimplantation techniques with tissue typing, a human being is made a means for other people. All human beings must exist for their own sake, not for others. The fact that we have the same starting point for our origin is an important prerequisite for us to consider all human beings equivalent. When you go in order for us to choose human life based on the utility of others, one human being has been subordinated to another. Whether parents may be equally happy in a child born to be a donor, society should not allow one person to be born for the purpose of healing another. It is also of concern that this method should be offered to couples as part of a health service, all the time that this treatment entails a significant burden on the family and at the same time has very limited possibilities to provide. As mentioned at the outset, important ethical boundaries are being moved with the legislative proposals adopted today. It is sad to note that once again we have sacrificed important ethical considerations in favour of technological progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e272	I think that the representative Sjøli attaches a completely different content to this matter than we do to others, when she speaks of making ‘a human being a means to other people’. I see Right as a party that is usually very concerned with research and development. Obviously this does not apply in areas that will lead the medicine forward. In the comment of the Right and Christian People's Party, they say that: ‘they assume that all legislation must be based on respect for the inviolable intrinsic value of human life, human rights and the protection of the integrity of individuals’. Yes, we all agree. But does that not mean that the Right is also responsible for developing future treatments precisely to preserve human dignity and the protection of individuals affected by serious diseases?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e286	I think it's very important that we respect each other's positions and opinions here, and there's disagreement, especially in the case of the germinal life, the embryo. What's our starting point is to protect about the germinal life. It's not like we're opposed to research that can cure disease, but I think to the most extent that in this area that message is very oversold. That's what I think we got clear signals about when we were visiting Boston, in the research community in the world that knows most about this. They said, "We're not sure we'll ever find out about this." One thing is at least certain, that we don't know anything about it yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e292	I fully respect the Right's view of the matter, but there are some things that I do not understand, and I must be allowed to ask the representative Sjöli questions about that. Very familiar is the Right for self-determined abortion until the 12th week of pregnancy – I have read both in this setting and seen in other documents, and I find nothing here that suggests that you are not. Nevertheless, it is said that in the case of PGD, only very exceptional – that is also said by all the others here now – must be said to agree to the terms and conditions, which are defined in the following way: ‘only exceptionally, in cases where there is a risk that the child will have a serious hereditary disease that is not compatible with life’. When we look at these things, even when the representative is talking about the germinal life, I ask the following questions: Is it more high value to destroy an egg that is to be described as ‘overall’ than to be able to use it for research?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e299	The main argument against embryo research is that this makes germinal life an instrument of medical research, which we believe – and I demand respect for – violates human dignity. We fear a development in which embryos are sought as a product that can be used for research purposes. The destruction of the embryo, as I was in my post, is itself problematic. Right, like the subject of biotechnology, we believe that for that reason we should limit the number of surplus eggs, so that there is no demand. An injustice cannot be justified by another wrong. We can't legitimize research on embryos by destroying them otherwise. You were into this abortion thing. It's a dilemma. I'm against abortion. I'm sure most of them are. But we also have to relate to reality, and that's the dilemma we're all living with. I've accepted that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e306	The President will be informed that all speeches will go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e309	I want to start by saying that it is part of the considerations of the representative, Sonja Irene Sjøli, for whom I absolutely sympathise. I think it is important in this debate to have a nuanced approach because there are very problematic issues to address, also because there are ethical considerations where it is not given where to land, and where one position can be perceived as a violation of people, while the other can also be perceived as an infringement of people – and then it conflicts with each other. But the representative, Mr. Sjeli, asks, "Who's going to have the right to life?" Then you can get the impression that what you end up with in answer is that everyone should have the right to life, anyway. But the right, as the representative of Nesvik was involved, is also in favour of self-determined abortion, pre-implantation diagnostics, foetal diagnostics and also for fertilising more eggs than you need through IVF treatment. Therefore, this is not a simple question. There are no simple answers, and I expect that from the representative, Sjøli, to agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e316	Yes, I think we all agree that there's no simple answer, and there's a lot of inconsistency and a lot of dilemmas about these questions. As I was about abortion, I think everyone has problems with it, but we have accepted that once someone is going to make that decision in a difficult situation, it must be the woman – within a certain number of weeks. As far as the representative was concerned, who uses preimplantation techniques, we have said that we can allow it when we know that there are hereditary diseases that are not compatible with life, and we know that the child dies in mother's life, right after birth or in early childhood. For the sake of both the child and the family, we think it is acceptable to do so. But once again, there are dilemmas all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e325	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e328	I am pleased that SV has gone so many rounds with its sails in the field of biotechnology. Over the years, we have organised consultations and meetings on the ethical challenges of biotechnology and what trends we see internationally in the field. I would like to stress how important it has been – and is – that we have a biotechnology topic in Norway that is so competent and serious, which has given us good analytical tools and replenishment of ethical and professional arguments over the years. It's invaluable. Through the subject of biotechnology, many of us have had a unique opportunity to reflect on questions that some might want us to leave to God, but as others might prefer, a case remained for the research communities. In SV, we've been moving slowly on these questions all along. We have taken good time to assess the benefits and disadvantages and ethical implications of the different positions. This has led us from opposing research on numerous fertilized eggs to believe that we should allow this, as well as allowing the use of preimplantation diagnostics, PGD. We don't think it's more ethically high-value to destroy vast, fertilized eggs than to use them for research, especially when, hopefully, research will result in new treatment methods for serious disorders. But also with us there are several views on this matter. With regard to the use of preimplantation diagnostics, SV has now been in favour of this for some years. Centrally in the discussion is the question of what is a serious enough hereditary disease that can defend the examination of the egg before it is inserted into the uterus. The background for the doubt is, among other things, the fear of the so-called sorting society, that in the future we will remove a group of people with certain characteristics. This is happening in many places already today, not least in India and China. Preimplantation diagnostics are also not risk-free, and there is also reason to problem the free choice. Restrictions may be perceived as coercive, but they may also be possible. As technology evolves, we can, for example: be confronted with choices we really don't want to make. So we're always going to have to make ethical considerations where it's not obvious which position you're going to land. To have a completely consistent view of these matters, the few are ignorant. I even think it won't necessarily be positive. As a matter of principle, preimplantation diagnostics should be prohibited, because a couple can decide whether they want to have children, but not what kind of children it will be. This view does not share SV. It is of at least as ethical concern to accept highly risky and impossible pregnancy with selective latent abortion or death as an outcome if the risk is already known through inheritance and action to prevent such suffering can be taken. At the same time, we have been very concerned about how to define serious heritable disease and what criteria to set for a name to allow PGD, possibly in combination with tissue typing. It is not easy to give a clear answer to this, but we have chosen to attach the criterion to today's conditions for foetal diagnosis and late abortion. At the same time, we have decided that we will set criteria for the work of the denominator which could involve a narrowing in specific cases – this is because: the proposal specifies that, in specific cases, treatment with stem cells from a type of tissue brother or sister must be appropriate to cure the sick child – a tightening of the current requirement that stem cell treatment can be expected to lead to a decisive improvement in the child’s health status and/or survival potential may result in better life-prolonging and relief treatment for diseases considered to be serious at present, so that they are no longer serious enough to meet the conditions of PGD and PGD/HLA, i.e. tissue typing; It must therefore be a misunderstanding when the Right and Christian People's Party state in the vote that the proposal may involve liberalisation, by pointing out that the requirement that alternative treatment options for the disease in question should not exist is not an independent condition of the law. I would like to stress that the difference from earlier is that we have removed the requirement for equivalent treatment options, i.e. where an exemption was previously opened if it was not possible to cure the disease by means of the PGD or the PGD and tissue typing combination, it will from now on be emphasised whether alternative reliever and life-prolonging treatments exist, as well as several other criteria. This is important, and it is a piece of advice we have received from a co-ordinated biotechnology topic. I would therefore ask that the Right and Christian People's Party cease to present this as a liberalisation. As regards the question of allowing the PGD and tissue typing combination, this has been the most difficult for SV. We all know the background to this matter. I would like to highlight the importance of establishing a device for caring for the families in question, that, as I said, the criteria have been tightened up, that more research needs to be done on how these families experience their situation and how it goes with them in the future. Probably 50 children have been born using PGD/HLA worldwide, and maybe a dozen have succeeded in saving their siblings. How things have been going with those who have not succeeded should nevertheless be an important question. It has puzzled me how little this has been focused on in the public debate. Overall, I think the result we've come up with is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e363	It is with considerable wonder that I listen to SV's main spokeswoman in this matter. On the SV website, we can still find documents that point to the SV’s big win in 2003. Here it says about the match with the Bondevik II government to avoid research on fertilised eggs, and it's described as one of SV's biggest victories. Since then SV has been in government, and they have performed a total reverse operation. My first question is, what is the reason why you've turned all the way around this time? Furthermore, in our country of 11 May we can read that the British are using biotechnology to vent shivering. Then I would like to ask the representative of Thorkildsen: does she have a sense of concern that we should have the same development in Norway as the Social Democratic Government in the United Kingdom has opened up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e372	I believe that the representative Jan Sahl may not have fully followed up on what kind of development has been in SV regarding the question of research on overly fertilised eggs and the use of pre-implantation diagnostics. In fact, it's already in our work programme before we got into government and got the Soria Moria platform that we wanted to allow this. I was also thinking that we've spent time getting to the positions we've landed on. I'm quite proud of that, because I think that for most of us it's not quite obvious what to mean. Unless you have a clear religious point of view on this, there's a lot of doubt and a lot of uncertainty about what's right, because there's different considerations that need to be balanced against each other. We've spent time getting to this. I'm glad. That means we've gone through a process, and so the majority of SV have meant this for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e379	I just want to ask a simple question to the representative of Thorkildsen. For a while back, we could read in a report that the SV representative Olav Gunnar Ballo stood up and said that the decision relating to the Mehmet case is what he desiderably regrets most of what he has been involved in adopting in this Chamber. As far as I know, the representative also voted in favour of Mr Thorkildsen for the same reason. Does the representative of Thorkildsen share Mr. Olav Gunnar Ballos's view?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e387	I am personally very much in doubt on this issue. I think it's very difficult to have a very clear position on it. It's a little bit so that the more you learn about this topic, the more you understand that you can't. I have really felt that about this matter. But what I am very pleased about is that we have been given a clarification of the entry criteria for the discussion of the matter – in line with what the Biotechnology Study has recommended to us. It is particularly important when it comes to the question of alternative treatment options, and now, when we are considering what is serious enough heritable disease to use both PGD and PGD/HLA, i.e. pre-implicit diagnosis and tissue typing, we also need to assess the relief and life-long treatment options available. But in SV there are different points of view in this case, and I think that's really okay. I have respect for people who have a different vision than what I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e394	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e397	Målfrid Stautland tells in the Evening Post about the daughters who were born with an unfortunate metabolic disease. She became blind, lost much of her speech, and was physically severely reduced. In the last few years, she used a wheelchair and died almost 24 years old. "A sad one? Yes. A tough life? Yes. A meaningless life? No, no, no! Not for her, not for us in the family. Heavy and sad days most experience. No one has a guarantee that life will be without days of challenges that can be solved. I know a lot of people who can tell you that the days are on and make life rich. We didn't want life, gave us wisdom of life, we wouldn't be without, and much joy." This tells Målfrid Stautland. It is in this perspective that the Christian People's Party regrets that the Government's proposal for a new biotechnology law is agreed – a proposal that opens up to a sorting society that chooses to remove those who are different. The new biotechnology law also opens up to a society where we can choose which children we want. It is opened to select the properties of the coming child. The government opens to test a fertilized egg to prevent a child from being born if the child has a disease that my society is incomparable with a worthy life. I have to ask you, where are the limits going? Should it be the politicians' job to tell what is an anomaly, and what is a life worth living? The purpose of this hunt for inheritance is also to create a lifesaver or a donor child. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that each individual person has a value in himself and must not be a means for others. The Christian People's Party is also critical of the way the Government and the Advance Party overwhelm and create expectations about the new bill. It's the politicians' responsibility to let ethics control technology, not the other way around. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants to exploit the possibilities that lie in research on stem cells from the unborn – something that everyone is all about is ethically justified. Many people will experience that questions are asked about their quality of life and the ability to live a worthy life, by the Government's suggestion. There is also reason to note that the disabled's organisations are critical of the Government and the proposal supported by the Progress Party today. Two parties that have previously supported the disabled, and who have shown solidarity with this group, are SV and the Center Party. This time, they have removed the disabled and given support to the commercial forces in the health sector. It's disappointing. In Stavanger Aftenblad, April 5th, 2006 Rune Klülaaen said: ‘Using a child as a means of treating another child creates many ethical dilemmas. The proposal must be amended, otherwise I cannot vote in favour." I'm in complete agreement with the representative of the Rune Skjellaa. It is positive that the Brustad State Council has said that this case is difficult. It is a difficult matter – and it must respect both sides. At the same time, I will not conceal that the Christian People's Party today is in a minority case that has meant a lot to the party. We think it's pointing towards a direction of society we don't want -- a society that opens up to pursue the so-called perfect human being. And even worse is the signal that the Christian People's Party of mine is being sent from the plural at Stortinget today – that there is someone who is not good enough. Today, the Christian People's Party is in a minority, but we are slipping over supported by some of the leading researchers in the field – not only here in Norway, but also internationally. But above all, the most important thing is what the disabled organisations themselves say in this matter. They are warninging about the government's submission. They want biotechnology to be used to treat diseases, not sort them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e440	Let me first say that biotechnology raises difficult questions. That is why I respect the Hareide's conclusions in this case, even if we conclude differently. At the same time, I find it a pity that the fronts of this case are getting so strong that a person uses words like ‘sorting society’ and ‘donor’s sister’ to get the rhetorical points, because then the debate loses an important dimension. There are many people who sincerely want children but who choose not to because the child will have a high risk of inheriting their own serious and fatal illness. For some parents, therefore, PGD can be an opportunity to have children – not an opportunity to sort children away. Does the representative Hareide see that this case also has such a perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e449	There is no doubt that biotechnology provides opportunities. I think we should have focused on the possibilities that biotechnology provides through stem cell research on the living individual. There is no ethical problem at all. I actually think everyone in this room can say that this is where we can actually get progress without it being ethically objectionable. At the same time, I think that words like'sorting societies' are right in this context, because the bill that is here today makes it possible for us to make conscious choices and to choose away what is different, what we think is not healthy enough. The councils as they sit here have also pointed out that this gives the possibility of getting rid of diseases that are very serious. Then we also take away something that is different, and I think it is very alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e456	First of all, I want to say that I respect the view of the Christian People's Party. They are actually quite tidy in this matter. But at one point, I'm a little uncertain about Christian People's Party's views. I find no place in the setting that the Christian People's Party is against artificial conception. When using in vitro fertilisation, you often take out and fertilize more eggs than you normally need to get the woman fertilised. Then I ask the question to the Christian People's Party, which is, of course, against abortion – and I respect that very strongly: what about the eggs that are not used in connection with artificial conception? Is it ethically high that they should be thrown — that is, destroyed? Or you should be able to use them, for example. to research to combat diseases and to create less suffering in the future? In the case of the so-called adult stem cells, we know that they have certain limitations. Isn't that what the representative Hareide sees?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e465	I would like to thank both the representative from the Progress Party and the representative from the Labour Party for their respect for different views on this matter. In the context of the issue of artificial fertilisation, there are currently large quantities of eggs used. But we don't know what the future will bring. We know that it might just be possible to avoid getting superfluous eggs. If you go into the law that applies today, you actually create a market, a need to have a certain amount of eggs that are permeable. So it's kind of going to be wrong to go into it, in a way, to get a need for superfluous eggs. We don't think that's going to be right. Therefore, it is very important that we are clear that we do not want to research on the excess artificially fertilized eggs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e472	I have to say that I react to parts of the post from the representative Hareide when he says that the SV and the Central Party have removed the disabled for the benefit of the commercial industry. We could start at such a pace by saying that the Christian People's Party elects the disabled for the benefit of religion, for example, by not wanting to at all explore any new treatment methods that can help a lot of people – perhaps. We need to dampen expectations. But this is also a wish that we hear from many people who have disabilities. So here I think it might be all right to have a little bit more nuanced tone. For example, we meet. parents who themselves have had severely disabled children and who are terribly happy with those children, but who nevertheless want preimplantation diagnostics to release even more latents, even more suffering, in order not to see that the child may die immediately. So I just want to appeal to have a slightly more cautious tone in that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e479	It has been said by a government party colleague of Inga Marte Thorkildsen that this is perhaps one of the most important issues that will be decided during this majority period. It was Jan Bøhler who just pointed out that perspective. What I think has been important in relation to both the Center Party and SV is that we have been together in this matter before. The disabled people's organizations have actually supported us in our view. They have said that we have to be careful to create a development in which we actually say that there are some who are different and who have to feel less welcome in society. That's the perspective I tried to draw up in my post, and that seems to me to be a very important perspective: that we create a society where everyone is welcome, where everyone is equally worldly. That's the dimension that makes me go against the bill presented by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e485	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e488	As the representatives in this Chamber know, this bill is a difficult matter for the Central Party. As a health policy spokesman in the Central Party, I would like to say that it has been difficult and demanding to work out the bill that the Government is presenting today. The program of the centre party is clear and clear: it says no to research on fertilised eggs, and it says no to preimplantation diagnostics. Then it's also obvious to most people, I think, that some of us in the Central Party Group would have a more restrictive law than the one we're dealing with today. It's probably the same in other party groups, as we've heard here in the Chamber today, that in matters of difficult ethical considerations, the assessments of which choices to make will be different. The Government Declaration opens up research on surplus fertilised eggs and limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics. It also states that there will be a legislative proposal, and the legislative proposal that is being promoted today is in line with the decision of 9 June 2005. When one takes into account the programme of the individual parties and the previous decisions of the Stortinget, one will see that in this room there is probably a majority for a more liberal law than the legislative proposal that is being presented today. For the centre batch, the concept of ‘restricted use of PGD’ has been significant. Therefore, the concept of seriousness has also been the subject of careful and in-depth discussions between government parties. Here, the new bill differs from the law currently in force, which is being practised, and also from the draft consultation that the Government sent out. I would like to stress that a new denominator will be considered in the light of new rules on each application. The proposal may, in specific cases, restrict the assessment theme of the denominator. The background to this is that the proposal now involves the legalisation of the fact that concrete emphasis must be placed on relieving treatment, prevention or life-long treatment in specific cases. Such an assessment does not underlie the law in force today, and it is further clarified in the legal text that ‘treatment with stem cells from a type of tissue brother/sister must be suitable for the cure of the sick child’. This is also a narrowing in relation to today’s requirement that stem cell therapy can be expected to lead to a decisive improvement in the health and/or survival of the child. Furthermore, medical and technological developments may lead to diseases that are currently considered to be serious to be given better life-prolonging treatment or relief treatment, so that they are no longer serious enough to meet the criteria for PGD and PGD/HLA. The legislative proposal introduces liberalisation in one area, opening up research on over-exploited fertilised eggs. At the same time, the legislative proposal is a narrowing in specific cases of the examination of applications for PGD and PGD/HLA, because the conditions for approval have changed. So I just want to end by saying that I think the debate in Stortinget today has been so far tidy and okay, but I think the Christian People's Party is going very far in painting a future when one in connection with this bill speaks of one being looking for the perfect human being or the perfect human being, and that we are going to sort people away with disease. That's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e508	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e511	I fully understand that the centre party here has gone not just one, but several rounds with itself, and I respect that. But I'm reacting a little bit when I hear the post of the representative Schjellaa, because it seems like he's here trying to make it like that one's been sharpened so much in relation to the assessment that the former denominator has made, that it's now edible. No, it's not the big incarcerations, for the most part what the Skjilla here has shown, has actually been evaluated in the name that has already been in swing. It's all about the things that are here, and I want to clarify what's in the law. It says that the severity of the disease needs to be assessed in detail, and then the various points come up. Well, these things have also evaluated the previous denominator, and they have also made sense. My question to the representative of the Kschlalaa is: does the representative of the Kschlalaa believe that the Mehmet case, if one starts with it, will not be caught up in what is here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e516	This question has been asked both to the Minister of Health and to several of us before. I don't want to answer that, because I don't have a basis for that. It's not right that the representative Nesvik says that these criteria that are now here have been subject to the assessment that this law imposes. And it is interesting to note that all three government parties in the comments stress that this proposal can, in specific cases, ‘consist of a tightening of the assessment theme of the denominator because’ – and then lists the new conditions on which an application is to be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e521	It is interesting to record the disagreement between the Centre Party and the Advance Party on a matter which they will actually adopt later today. According to the Evening Post on 21 March last year, the representative of the Skjälaa stated: ‘I'll say no to the help girl. It is contrary to the principle of the value of any child.» It is difficult for me to see what can justify the fact that the representative of the Central Party has now taken the opposite position of what he had just a year ago, and my question is: what is the reason why the representative of the Skjellaa and the Central Party is now going in to allow what he himself calls the auxiliary sister, to which he would say no one year ago because it conflicts with the principle of the value of any child?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e531	That opinion came after the Government’s draft consultation had been sent out. So part of the criteria for granting PGD and PGD/HLA have been changed and tightened. But I hope that the representative also heard my post, and I hope she sees that this is a difficult matter, not only for the centre party, but also for me as a single representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e536	I have great respect for the work that the representative of the Skjälaa has done for human dignity, both as a politician and in his civil life, and I hope that he is right when he says that any of what the Christian People's Party makes up today is actually not going to be future. It's our heartfelt desire, too, but we think it's such a serious matter that we have to point out the possibilities. When we look at developments internationally, where one has gone beyond Norway, there is unfortunately no reason not to worry about this matter. What I want to ask the representative, Mr. Schjäla, is whether this is a narrowing in relation to today's practice or not. SV and the Central Party call it a narrowing down, while Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad rejects this, among others. in our country 27 January this year. Then my question is: is it the Council of State Sylvia Brustad, who hires the Ministry of Health, who has the greatest influence on this, or is it the representative of the Skjellaa?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e543	Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad can probably answer for himself later in the article today. I would like to ask the representative Hareide to stick to what is in the setting, that he read it – also what I quoted in a previous line, where we ‘examines that, in the case of PGD and PGD/HLA, the new name shall, in the light of new rules, deal with each individual application. The proposal may, in specific cases, lead to a narrowing of the assessment theme because: the proposal provides for the legalisation of the fact that, in individual cases, particular attention must be paid to mitigating, preventive or life-prolonging treatment options in specific cases.’;» It goes on to say that: ‘medical/technological development may result in diseases that are currently considered to be serious to be given better life-long and relief treatment so that they are no longer ‘serious enough’ to meet the conditions of PGD and PGD/HLA’. I hope this is an adequate response to the representative Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e562	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e565	The last row of lines shows that this case is not simple. I must admit that in the Left too there has been a great debate on this matter. We've had a lot of laps, and I can say, as the Skjellaa says, in our program, too, that we're going against research on surplus fertilized eggs. But the rounds we've had, and the processes we've had, in our own party, have led us to move. We're now going in for research on surplus fertilized eggs. One might argue very much and for a long time. I'm not going to draw it that far. But one of the factors is that our change of position is about opening up some of the possibilities offered by medical research and development. But we're still busy that we're going to have a strict biotechnology law. When we use these words, "string", "serious", maybe someone is thinking about philology. But we kind of have to be some where to put the list. I understand what we're going through with the plural, so we can say that it's going to be a strict biotechnology law that's now going to be practiced. But one of the premises of the law is this with serious illness. It's an important premise. In a note, we ask the Government to design a law-interpreting guide to the topic of serious illness. We think it's important to get more clarity about what's in it, and that a strict interpretation is given, where the starting point is conditions that are incompatible with life, or where the outcome would be a life of constant pain, or death right after birth or in childhood. Otherwise, I didn't think the debate here today is as polarized as one could have feared. There's a lot of balanced vision. There is a great deal of faith and doubt in others, even in the parties who will vote for the amendment, but at least I think it has been relatively balanced. But someone's taking off a little bit. It was a representative who was talking about the upper floor. I agree that we must not oversold the expectations of this biotechnology research. Based on what we've heard in our hearing, and based on what we learned when we were at the U.S. Committee, we know that it's very far ahead. So we don't have to oversell or practically bluff that here it's just to pinch with our fingers, and then we have a solution. It's not like that. As the case spokesman also pointed out – by the way, he had a very good initial information about both the work and the matter – this matter is not easy. This has also led to the government party, the Progress Party and the Left having a common comment where we say something about the ethical moment. So we have to take the balance between the care of ethics and human dignity and the desire to create a better future for living people with health problems very seriously. It's in the setting, and of course we're very strongly behind it. The words I think are important. Finally, I'm going to sum up the position of the Left in this case. So we're supporting research on surplus fertilized eggs under certain conditions. We also support limited use of genetic testing of fertilised eggs before insertion into uterus and support PGD, but we do not support PGD in combination with tissue type testing, PGD/HLA.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e581	The case we are dealing with today is, as has been said here, both a follow-up to the Storting decision of 9 June 2005 and the Soria Moria declaration. It is, as many have said, no simple matter, but I would like to stress that the proposals for legislative changes that have been tabled and which seem to have a majority here today do not imply any changes to the principles laid down in the objective paragraph of the Biotechnology Act. The aim is to exploit the human medicine use of biotechnology for the benefit of people in a society where there is room for all. And there must be no doubt that for the government parties and government all people are equally worth it. These values shall be taken into account in any proposal related to questions of medical use of biotechnology, whether in the case of research on fertilised eggs or pre-implantation diagnostics. The ethical aspects of the use of biotechnology must continue to weigh heavily. As a basis for Storting's consideration of the bill, I would like to stress that it is a key issue for the Government to facilitate research, including stem cell research. The proposal now authorises research into surplus fertilised eggs in clearly defined areas. Such research shall be carried out in controlled forms and within ethically sound frameworks. Firstly, research on surplus fertilised eggs is open when the aim is to improve the methods of assisted fertilisation and genetic testing of fertilised eggs. Secondly, this research opens up when the aim is to acquire new knowledge for the treatment of serious diseases in humans, including stem cell research, so that we can thus help to find methods for treating seriously ill people in the future. Some examples of diseases have been mentioned, such as dementia, heart attack, cancer, Parkinson’s disease, spinal cord injury and diabetes 1. None of us today know when, but we have hope and faith that this can contribute in a positive direction. Doing what we're doing now is, as I see it, using biotechnology's opportunities for the benefit of sick and disadvantaged people and for society. I would like to stress that the amendment of the law only opens up research on fertilised eggs that have been left behind after sampler fertilisation, and that would in any other case be destroyed, as others have been. The fertilisation of eggs for research purposes only will not be permitted. In case of sample cane fertilisation, it is indicated that the minimum amount of eggs shall be fertilised. Therefore, the amendment of the law does not mean that more eggs will be destroyed than is necessary to ensure proper test tube fertilisation. I would like to underline again that the research must be carried out within ethically sound limits and under official control. It is also important to clarify that research on fertilised eggs must be done not later than 14 days after the egg has been fertilised. Fertilised eggs that have been the subject of research shall be destroyed and not introduced into a woman. Furthermore, it will not be permitted to research in fertilised eggs resulting in genetic changes that could be inherited in humans. Any research project involving the use of surplus fertilised eggs and derived material shall be approved by a Regional Ethics Committee for Medical and Health Research before the start of the research. Furthermore, research into such material may only be started if the pair which has released the eggs or semen has informed consent that the material may be used for the specified purpose. If fertilisation is done with donor semen, semen donors are also required to consent to the research. I assume that the regional ethical committees dealing with each project application will carefully assess whether the research applied for is within the scope of this law. It is my opinion that the framework and possibilities for research on surplus fertilised eggs that are now being opened to benefit mankind. Stem cell research has been a field of activity in Norway for many years, but only with the use of stem cells from born persons. It started with a bet of 1.5 million. in 2002. For the current year, we're spending $15 million. kr. We're going to keep researching it. However, there are greater expectations of stem cells from fertilised eggs, so-called embryonic stem cells. We must bet on this research in an ethical and professionally sound manner, with respect for the integrity of the individual and human dignity. I am therefore pleased that a majority of the committee is asking the Government to set up its own stem cell research centre. How this is to be financed and organised we will come back to. In addition to opening up research on numerous fertilised eggs that I have explained, it is proposed as known changes to the rules on preimplantation diagnosis, or PGD, as it is also called. PGD means, as we know, that a genetic examination of the fertilised egg is carried out before it is introduced into the uterus. The method assumes that a test tube fertilisation is carried out. The background to allow the use of PGD is to enable couples who have facilities for serious genetic condition to achieve pregnancy without passing the serious disease on to the foetus. This is a resource-intensive method, the technique is difficult, and requires a high level of competence and experience. The legislative proposal therefore presupposes the restrictive use of PGD and the provision of the method to couples only where there is a high risk of transmission of serious hereditary disease to the foetus. An important part of the proposal is that the couple should receive neutral information and genetic guidance before applying for PGD. Preimplantation diagnostics may only be offered where one or both are carriers of a serious hereditary disease that is monogen or chromosome. That means this isn't about Down's syndrome, as someone's tried to give the impression. In my opinion, the limited use of PGD that the bill opens for means using medical biotechnology for the benefit of humans. I do not share the view of the Christian People's Party and the Right that the bill undermines the idea that all people are equal, and that this should be contrary to the provisions of the Biotechnology Act. Regarding the question of PGD in combination with tissue typing, which may allow a healthy child who can also be a donor to a sick sibling if the healthy and sick child has the same tissue type, I have noticed that someone believes it is ethically objectionable to open it up. I have also noticed that someone thinks it is a concern to leave a child with the expectation that it will be able to serve as a donor for a sick sister or brother. Here I would like to stress that it will never be relevant for a child born as a result of PGD to donate organs to the sick child. It is very clear from the Transplant Act that only renewable tissues can be extracted. It is also very important to stress that this should not be unduly burdensome for the child. To the debate that someone was going to do this just to help someone else – and I have heard the expression ‘medium for something else’ used: I distance myself from that. I have the confidence in Norwegian parents, as in parents in other countries, that the child is born because they want that child. I record that there are other perceptions of it, but that is my view of the matter. In order to ensure non-discrimination and consistent and sound practice, we propose that a multidisciplinary national denominator assess and decide applications for pre-implantation diagnostics, including in combination with tissue typing, i.e. HLA. It is suggested that the PGD-HLA combination should continue to be carried out abroad. Specific treatment options should not be developed on PGD-HLA. To the extent that competences to be built up for research on fertilised eggs can be used for the PGD-HLA combination, this competence can be used in Norway if this is less resource-intensive than treatment abroad. It is also proposed that the decision on applications for PGD should also be taken on the location where this treatment is to be carried out. The decision shall be based on documented knowledge of professionally sound practices and broad experience of the institution. I am pleased that it appears that there is a majority in favour of the Government's proposal for the Biotechnology Act. I believe this is an important breakthrough in using technology within controlled sound frameworks to help people in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e632	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e635	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the Council of State, which has presented this bill, which, in the opinion of the Progress Party, is a very good proposal, and which is to meet the future with. So we'll see from the result what we get to. My question to the Council of State is about the comment that the majority has attached to the creation of a separate stem cell research centre in connection with the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital in Oslo. It's important that we try to get a center, so that we can build a special skill. I also believe, for my own part, that we should not necessarily research the big and wide, but try to concentrate on something and become very good at it. Norway has what is to do, both the means and the ability to link us with expertise from abroad, for once in the future to become a contributor to public health on a global scale in relation to the major diseases — hopefully. My question to the Council of State is to the extent to ask for confirmation that this matter will come within the context of the State budget for the next year, and that there will then be plenty of opportunity to make representations on this matter as well, so that a good and effective centre can be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e644	I fully agree with the majority that it is important to put in place a stem cell center. I also agree that there is a great deal of competence at the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital, and that it would be natural to start there. I also agree that in the initial phase it will not be right to spread this across the country. Of course, a collaboration with environments around the country where other researchers are doing this in an excellent way, but we can't spread it too much too early. I'm very open to input into this process. I take with me the signals that have already been given through this setting and the debate that has now been, and then I will come back to Stortinget as soon as it can be done in an appropriate way. More than that, the committee leader knows that I can't say about it right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e651	At the press conference where the Council of State presented its new proposal for biotechnology law, she presented a list of diseases she believes can be cured through stem cell research. This applies, for example, to: cancer, Parkinson's disease, heart attack, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, etc., which she has also repeated here today. When the Health and Care Committee was on a study trip in Boston, which several have been involved in, we were given the opportunity, as I said, to discuss stem cell research with some of the world's leading stem cell researchers. They were far more sober than the Council of State, and they made it clear that tests on the use of stem cells in humans had not yet been carried out, and that no one really knows what results this research can produce — if any. Does the Council of State have any other knowledge of the concrete results of stem cell research than the researchers in this environment have, or is it such that it simply oversells this message?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e656	I have tried to put great emphasis on not overselling the message. There are several interesting attempts in stem cell research around the world. I've emphasised in most contexts, including here, that none of us know exactly when there will be a breakthrough that will enable us to help people with cancer, heart attacks or other serious diseases. The question we have to ask ourselves then is, are we going to use the opportunity that is actually trying out whether it will help people with such serious disorders? That's where the government parties and the Right divide, because we believe that we now have the opportunity to research this, and we've seen in a lot of other contexts that as we research more things, get more knowledge and more competence, at some point there'll be a breakthrough. I think it is important to give people with such severe suffering hope and faith that it is possible to get help. Therefore, I also believe that with the fences, the proper framework we have put in here, it is absolutely right that we should finally open up this research in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e661	The Health Minister explained on 3 April last year, when she introduced the Biotechnology Act, that the purpose of the Biotechnology Act was to prevent people who are carriers of serious hereditary disease from transmitting it to their children. Rarely is the ideology of the sorting society clearer expressed in Norway than through such thinking. Since then, the Workers' Party has launched its new slogan: Everyone must join in. I think that's very good. But does this slogan also apply to the party's biotechnology policy? According to the policy supported by the Labour Party today, it is clearly said that you must be quite healthy enough to be part of the future society of the Workers' Party. So my question to the Council of State is, is it so that everyone should be included, as long as we're healthy enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e668	Here the representative Woie Duesund tries to create a picture of the Workers' Party that is completely wrong. I feel the need to say that. We have, as our expressed policy, both in word and in deed, a policy that says that all people are equally worth it. It's actually that when Woie Duesund and other representatives here today say that we stand for a sorting society, it's wrong. I want to give a few examples of what diseases we're talking about here when it comes to PGD. It's e.g. which is called tuberculosis, which is a serious neurological disability, with mental retardation, epilepsy which is often not treatable, autistic features, complications beginning in foetal life with tumours in the heart, later tumor growth in a number of organs, including kidneys, with unpredictable progression. I assume that the representative agrees with me that this is a very serious disease. I've met parents who have kids with similar serious illnesses. I think we should be careful to be over-judges because they can think that maybe it would be better, if they were to have more children, that the next child would have escaped exposure to what some of their children are exposed to per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e677	I would like to remind the Council of State of what, among other things. the disabled people's organisations have said in this matter. They have just pointed out that the proposal made by the Government is not a good one. I want to see what one has experienced in other countries – the council must be very conscious here – where we have seen a slope effect. Dr. David King won, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. ‘We went from avoiding children who would die to avoid children who could get sick when they became middle-aged. Now we need to find those who will live as long as we do, but who are not perfect in cosmetics." This slope effect has a set of other countries that have crossed the ethical boundary that we are crossing today. They have a slope effect after the decision. Can the Council of States promise that we will not have the same slope effect in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e689	What I can say is that what we think about this matter is that we have submitted to the Stortinget. The representative Hareide also knows that we've set very clear boundaries, that there's a very clear framework, that we're going to make a new name with a very broad representation, also from the ones that this applies to. There is nothing in the government's policy that makes it possible for us to go out on someone – to use the same expression as the Hareide representative – to have a slope effect. So this isn't a question of avoiding children, or avoiding children with that kind of suffering. As I see it, it's turning the whole thing upside down, because this is about using technology within a very strict framework, to be able to help children, help parents not to experience so much suffering and unfortunately too early death, which is the case for some children in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e696	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e702	Two thoughts are particularly clear in the bio law that we are now adopting today: the idea of the perfect and listen-free and the idea of the useful. It is now allowed to disease embryos before they are introduced into the uterus. The disease can be sorted out in order not to be born. Look at me, I am of an extinct race, wrote the Bear Hatterud in the evening post this winter. He's got spinal fractures. The number of Sena Boards due, inter alia, to: spinal cord fractures and heart failure have increased steadily since 1999. The bio-law's permit for disease testing of embryos merges into the current thinking of society and reflects the pursuit of it perfectly. The child must be strong and healthy, not weak and ill. It's a trend that we look at in many areas of society. But does the hunt for the perfect make us happier? A study from York University, England, published in Norwegian newspapers in March 2002, says something quite different. The hunt for the perfect makes us sick, hot it. The researchers in York had found that the hunt for the perfect place in all the arenas of life gives a lot of low self-esteem, low self-esteem, depression and stress. These are exactly the problems that are increasing a lot in today's society. The new bio law can paradoxically push us towards more disease, and then in areas that will affect more people than the sick you might initially want to help, and that you don't know if you can get help. The second thing that strikes me by the new bio law is the idea of what's useful. The number of fertilised eggs left by assisted fertilisation needs to be used for something useful, as new treatments for disease mean many. But isn't it good when the sick get helped? Yeah, but are we sure it's just for help? A seriously ill person is rarely useful. When the utility mind drives us to research on fertilized human eggs, the utility mind will also be able to express other choices we make. In another situation, the thought of the useful setting can affect the sick themselves, and then in disfavor of them. It doesn't matter how we think, because our minds shape society. Instead of hunting for the perfect and useful, we need a society that keeps human dignity high. That's just what will give us all security – for most of us will neither be perfect nor useful through all phases of life. A Dutch writer has said this: The only guarantee that everyone will continue to live is respect for life, respect for one's fellow human beings, and respect for those who are different from ourselves. Here lies the key to a different and more humane society than the new biotechnology law is now opening up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e723	It's amazing how different we can read. It's amazing how we can give people opinions other than those they actually have. It now has the representative Kvalbein to the degrees ready to do. I had hoped that the representative Kvalbein would have had the same understanding of what is in the legal text, which actually almost the entire committee has expressed here today. If the representative Kvalbein had followed the debate, she would have learned that there are many who have expressed both faith and doubt in this matter. We have come up with a proposal that is supported by a majority. It cannot be the text of the proposal that Mr Kvalbein has read, in the light of the summary that I heard she made in her statement. But enough about it. I have participated in several debates in this room related to biotechnology. And I am at least pleased with the debate that we are now having behind us. I think we have had a good debate, a neat debate and a debate that shows that we can disagree, but still disagree on a relatively factual basis, and that there is faith and doubt in the matter. That has been well expressed, I think. I haven't heard anyone who – I was about to say – has spoken demeaningly about each other's human vision today. I'm very happy about that. I also think the committee has noticed that in a number of different contexts I have said that when we get this up for debate, I hoped that we would have such a kind of debate as we have had today. I just want to thank the Committee for a very good and very fruitful debate, which shows diversity, which shows that we have respect for each other. Then it is also easier to pursue policies – and easier to show respect – without using too many words and wrong types of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e732	I agree with the spokesman that we have had a good and tidy debate. But I think it's important to highlight what just appeared in Aud Kvalbein's post, which shows a perspective on the future in this matter. Where we are today, we don't know, but what we know today is that we are crossing an ethical line. For the majority of people in this room, a person wants to do research on fertilized eggs. So we're opening up possibilities that we don't know the consequences of. Then the Council of State says there are some clear boundaries. However, we know from the experience of other countries that they also set clear limits, and yet they have developed that is not controlled today. I agree that we have had a good debate, but it has also been a debate of clear disunity and we have made clear choices in the future with regard to what communities we want. I'm glad that both the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Left share in pointing out that we want a society where we just want it to be different to have full respect for, and that it should be possible for. It seems to me that it has been important to come forward with this debate, a debate I think has been a good one.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e741	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e754	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e856	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e887	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e1071	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e1085	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Right and Christian People's Party will vote against. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e1099	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24-lower.ana.ud1062e1110	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
