ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e62	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party, and that three lines be given in response to statements by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e69	The legal basis for the establishment of a testing scheme to evaluate the effectiveness of injection rooms came into force on 17 December 2004. The testing scheme is temporary. What we are dealing with here today is an extension of the two-year scheme, so that it can be evaluated in a good and appropriate way. The State Institute for Drug Research (SIRUS) has been entrusted with the task of evaluating the current probationary system. SIRUS has indicated that it is necessary to extend the testing scheme by two years in order to obtain a sound data base for an evaluation. What will be the result when today's trial system is evaluated by SIRUS, nobody knows, but one can well expect that in 2009, when the evaluation is available, there will be a slightly larger political debate than today, since we are dealing with only one extension. There is little new to the hearing opinions on the current Odelstingsproposition, Ot.prp. No 36, which complies with the hearing opinions of Ot.prp. No 56 for 2003-2004. It's also a little new in the political arena. Those who opposed a test order in 2004, the Right and Christian People's Party, are opposed to an extension of the system. And those who were positive about the introduction of the testing scheme, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Progress Party, believe that the system needs to be evaluated in a thorough and responsible way before deciding whether injection rooms are overall positive for each user and for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e82	There are very many people who believe very much about the testing of drug injection facilities. That is what we in the Labour Party believe is very good, because there is a demanding debate, in which both questions and answers are difficult. And we need a lot of people who care about the trial project, so that we can work together to find solutions. However, we do not understand that anyone can be so sure that this experiment should be stopped and that the trial period should not be extended. We're not sure that this test project will carry us on. We're not sure if it works the way we want it to work. But think about it – preventing many overdoses, infections and diseases and providing contact outside the drug environment to the debilitated drug addicts! We're actually willing to try to figure out if this is a measure to help. If we're going to figure that out, we have to give it time, so we have a good basis to evaluate. In our view, there are too many measures in the field of drug policy that we are not convinced of give the effect we would like. But we can't let go of it, because what are the alternatives? Who knows what seems better? We also want an escalating plan for the drug field, and we're going to get it. Are we expecting to find all the answers to how to help drug users who are drug addicts, there? - Nope. The spray space is intended to be an injury reduction measure. We don't think there will be fewer drug injectors with injection rooms. We don't think there'll be any more either. The reality is that there are many injectors — most in Oslo. They put the spray in the stairs, in the back yard, in the toilet – just anywhere. Injecting drug users have no high status in drug settings either. They're tired. The background to the drug injection room experiment is to try to give these people a more dignified life, an offer to inject heroin into a clean and calm environment and under the supervision of qualified health and social staff. It has nothing to do with the legalisation of heroin. Does anyone think we should stop distributing clean syringes? It's a direct help in using drugs. Is it legalising drug use? Or are we really going to take measures to protect children and society and try to prevent infection and disease in the injecting population? The injection room is intended to prevent more stress than is necessary — and thus we hope for fewer overdoses. We want to protect the drug addicts and society around. It's a pretty strong experience, especially for children, to see a human being sitting on the stairs and putting the brittle saying so the blood runs. We have a responsibility. We have to try. In the Workers' Party we have great confidence in the Trade Council within Rusfeld in the Municipality of Oslo. We have great confidence in the Salvation Army, which works in the streets. The same is true of the Church's Bymission. All hospitals in the Oslo region, the Medical Association, the Criminal Service and many other important actors with much experience in the field agree to extend the probationary period. For us, it's very important. There are many and strong reactions to the location of the injection room. The Stortinget should not think anything about it. That's the municipality's assessment and responsibility. However, there must be an opportunity to note that there are many measures to help people with drug problems spread throughout Oslo — and in other cities and towns in Norway. It is not always as pleasant for those who live there, but – frankly – action must be where the people we are going to help are located.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e108	Drug use causes significant health and social problems for addicts themselves, for their relatives and for society. There is a broad political consensus to work towards limiting drug use and reducing drugrelated harm. This is why I find it alarming that a political majority at the same time is in favour of facilitating the use of drugs by the public services, which the system of injection rooms actually involves. A unanimous committee expresses its view that the scheme is problematic because it helps to maintain and strengthen the injecting culture and to maintain drug dependence and the gastronomic environment. In spite of this, the majority therefore believe that the scheme contributes to greater dignity. As the right sees it, the injection room contributes to misery, not to dignity. The annual report on the drug problem points out that there is a great deal of destructive behaviour in the drug injection room, among other things. by shooting in the groin and throat, with a cloudy risk of blood clots. The drug injection room facilitates the maintenance of an injection culture that is a major cause of high overdose rates in Norway compared to other countries. Employees experience very stressful work in the injection room, and few are able to work there full time. The Rusmis users’ stakeholder organisation, in its consultation response, states that the system of injection rooms cannot be considered as a harm reduction measure, since it acts in practice as an harm-producing measure. They also point out that many use higher doses because they feel safer in the injection room, with a higher risk of overdoses. Ambulance has already moved out to the spray room 36 times to save people from dying because of the shot they got with the government's help. Similarly, in the case of drug addicts, organised through the National Association Against Drug Abuse, injection rooms do not appear to contribute to a better situation for their dependent children, siblings or parents. We know a lot. Test schemes with injection rooms have already been carried out in other countries, for example: in Australia. The evaluation showed that no reduction in overdose deaths or in the incidence of HIV and hepatitis could be detected. Experience from Frankfurt and Zurich indicates that injection rooms contribute to multiple overdoses. In 2004, the European Organisation for Drugs, EURAD, presented a report indicating that several countries in Europe that had injection rooms would close them, precisely because the offer does not meet the intention of less HIV and hepatitis, and that the use of injection rooms does not lead to motivation for treatment. Although the environment for the injection is better in the injection room than in the street, the reality remains that the shot contributes to physical, mental and social misery. It's this reality we have to do something about, not just decorate the problems of a more decorative facade. The co-operation administration started upgrading the supply of drug addicts during the previous period. The appropriations were raised by nearly 600 million. kr. The capacity of LAR was doubled, and the number of low-threshold municipalities increased from eight to 42. An important step was taken in the right direction when drug addicts were granted patient rights in line with other patients. But we're the first ones to recognize that this was just the beginning, not the end of a lift for those addicts. Health surveillance has warned that the supply of drug addicts is partly irresponsible and that there is widespread violation of patient rights. Today, when the majority decides to extend the system of injection rooms, it means that over five years we will spend close to 50 million. to make the way out of addiction. To the right, these funds will be used for more low-threshold health measures, which can contribute to better health for heavily-enhancing drug addicts. We voted for more drug treatment in the State budget last year and will propose increased appropriations in the revised budget as well. Representatives from the Right have made a proposal for a phasing out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, with a special focus on drug addicts. If we really want to do something for the dignity of those who are addicted to drugs, we need to focus on measures that contribute to better health and living conditions, and not least an easier way out of drug addiction. We don't reduce problems by helping people to rush. Therefore, the right will vote against the proposal for an extended testing scheme with spray rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e136	The test with injection rooms in Oslo was started under the clear premise that the test should be evaluated after two years. When the evaluation was presented, a review would consider a possible extension of the law. Therefore, it is surprising that the Government is proposing that injection rooms should be allowed for two new years. I would have liked the evaluation of today’s injection rooms to be carried out before the Stortinget received such a case for treatment. The Health and Welfare Committee in Stortinget agrees with the proposal, knowing that the evaluation report is under way and knowing that the report is likely to contain critical comments on the practice of injection rooms. The signal from today's injection rooms is that it's very expensive to drive, and few people use it. In addition, mixing doses are provided inside the spray room, which should not be allowed. The Christian People's Party believes it would be more humane and worthwhile for drug users that the money for injection rooms is used to mannulate housing or to bring down the treatment queues. The waiting time today is often in several months. Injecting drug use was confirmed under strong doubts, with a clear expectation that the drug injection facility would be a time-limited trial and a derogation from the main rule of Norwegian drug policy, that possession and use of drugs should be banned and punishable. Ending the drug injection room experiment will therefore be a restoration of the normal state of Norwegian drug policy. This is also the view of the United Nations Drug Control Agency (INCB). In the 2005 annual report, they include:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The INCB Board reiterates its position that drug injection rooms or other facilities where people can abuse drugs illegally acquired facilitate the illicit use of internationally controlled drugs and violate the provisions of the international control agreements. Injecting drug use is contrary to the main principle of the agreements, namely that drug use should be restricted to medical and scientific purposes. The Management Board therefore strongly regrets the opening of an injection room in Norway in January 2005, and calls on the Government to take immediate and necessary steps to ensure full compliance with the international drug control agreements.’ I don't know the evaluation results, and it probably doesn't do the ministry or – to the extent – the health and care committee either. However, it is very likely that the evaluation will point to negative conditions related to the drug injection facility, as such conditions are already covered by the media. I refer to the Evening Post on 2 April 2006: ‘This is where an overdose is found in the Questionnaire.’ If the evaluation were to reveal many negative conditions, it would be irresponsible to continue the operation for a further two years. The international legalisation movement has injecting space as an important part of its drug use strategy to be decriminalised, normalised and legalised. That's how they won an important saying in Norway. Here they have also had help from all those who, for humanistic reasons, sincerely want to provide drug users with a better supply. There are now preparations for a new United Nations Conference on Drugs Policy in 2008. If Norway is to act with authority at such a conference, we cannot take action that is contrary to UN drug conventions. An extension of the injection room test undermines Norway’s distress in the UN. The Christian People's Party will therefore not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e158	This should not be a debate on whether it is right or wrong to have injection rooms. The starting point for this debate is something that Stortinget has previously adopted, namely the possibility of having an injection room. This is to be evaluated, you'll see if it has any good effects. If it's a group of people we can have a bad conscience because we haven't done enough for, it's drug addicts. It is true, as Gunn Olsen says, that in the case of care interventions, in the case of treatment methods, etc., there is much we do not know. There's a lot we know, but there's a lot we don't know. We don't know if things work, if things could be better. That's why, when we choose to go for an action, it's very important to also evaluate it and see if it works, whether it can actually help the drug addicts to a better life. In fact, in the case of drug users, not everyone is going to be drug-free. On the one hand, it's about doing mass in relation to drug treatment. So it's about being able to give some drug addicts a slightly easier and more worthwhile life. The spray room has been put in place on the basis of these assumptions, and I think it must be clear that this needs to be evaluated, so that one can see if any of the intentions underlying it when they were adopted have been followed up. I also think that when the representative Hareide speaks of an extension of the probationary period in order to have it evaluated, it helps undermine the drug policy when one sets it up against the UN objectives, etc., it is to stretch the knit somewhat too far. This is about evaluating an action, and we actually need more of it in the care of the drug.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e169	I take the word primarily to correct what the case spokesperson said when it relates to the position of the Left in this case. What is the position of the Left is that we are in agreement with the Government Party and the Progress Party in this matter. We do that in the comments, as shown in the setting. Otherwise, I agree and can join most of the reasoning put forward by the representative Gunn Olsen. It's not a simple problem we're talking about, but, as the Skjäla said, it's about evaluating a system. Everyone could have wanted that it would have been possible to evaluate the scheme without us having to have an extension. We in the left have at least fallen to the point where we want the system that is established to be evaluated, and that when it is to be evaluated, it has to be done in a proper way. Then we think it's right to go in for this extension, as the proposal implies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e178	As several speakers have pointed out, since 1 February 2005, heavily charged drug addicts have had an injection room to use to inject heroin. It takes place in a clean and calm environment and under the supervision of qualified health and social workers. Injection rooms are intended to reduce damage. The aim is for users to experience increased dignity and to have a greater opportunity to contact the auxiliaries. The service shall also contribute to the prevention of infections and infections and contribute to fewer overdoses and overdose deaths. At the time of the launch of the testing scheme of injection rooms, it was because it was desirable to learn more about the benefits and possible disadvantages of injection rooms. Can e.g. Drug injection rooms help reduce overdoses and overdose deaths? Would injection rooms lead to more contact between the heaviest users and the auxiliaries? And: Can injection rooms cause us to get fewer infections and less infection among users? As several speakers have pointed out, this is evaluated by the State Institute for Drug Research, SIRUS. Since the opening of the injection room, SIRUS has gained experience in this area in Oslo. These data shall be used to investigate whether injection rooms contribute to the reduction of injury. As is known, this testing scheme is provided for in the 2004 IDU Act, and the law is effective until 16 December this year. As you know, we are now proposing to extend it by two years, so that it will apply to the same date in 2009. As has been said from this pulpit, among others: by the representative Olsen, the vast majority of the hearing bodies support the proposal to extend the law, but I have noticed that some also have objections to this. I have also noticed that the members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party oppose extension. When the Government proposes to extend the testing scheme, this is in order to avoid the fact that the municipality of Oslo is forced to close the injection room while waiting for the assessment of the experience of today’s injection rooms and that any permanent legislation for injection rooms should enter into force. In other words, the two-year extension is a kind of safety valve. I agree with the speakers who have said that it is important that we take the time to carefully evaluate the outcome of the evaluation. If the evaluation suggests that injection rooms should become a legal service that can be offered in all municipalities — or in several municipalities that wish to do so — new legal provisions need to be adopted. The Needle Room Act only opens up to establish and operate temporary injection rooms as part of this testing scheme. Data must be collected for at least two years to provide a good enough basis for the evaluation. This evaluation will be ready during the summer, and there will not be enough time to assess the evaluation of SIRUS and, if necessary, to establish a permanent legal regulation of injecting rooms before the law expires in December. That's why we think there's a need to have this safety valve in two years, as we add up. Suffering if the law's working time is extended does not mean that we are forced to allow the trial scheme to run until December 16, 2009. If the evaluation was to show that injection rooms do not have the desired effect and we believe that it should not be opened up to injection rooms, it is clear that the testing schemes can be stopped before the end of the period of operation in December 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e199	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e202	It's probably not the government that can cancel this law, if you think it doesn't work. It is probably this assembly, that is, the Storting and Odelstinget, as a legislative assembly. Today we extend this law. I think there are some representatives who have been reasonably sure that this system is wrong. I don't share that view, because I'm not sure what works and doesn't work. At least I need more knowledge before I finally decide whether such a system should be permanent or should be abolished. That is why I look forward to the evaluation that is coming. It is important that we take a very broad evaluation where everyone comes up and gets a broad review of all the facts, and then we present the matter to the Stortinget for final treatment. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State can confirm that this matter is just about having enough time to carry out a thorough and broad evaluation, so that the Storting can take its decisions on the broadest possible basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e212	The answer to that is yes. We are going to get the thorough evaluation that I feel most people want, so that we can decide if we want to continue the scheme and, if necessary, make it permanent through a law decision, so that this can be offered in all the municipalities that want it and need it. When the evaluation was not completed before the summer, there will not be enough time for all this to be carried out in such a thorough manner as I perceive that the representative Nesvik also wants, until December 16th this year. That's why we have to have a little longer time. It's seaworthy, as I'm a representative of this house for many years, that there's a great deal and a great deal that decides what is to be adopted. I am not going to try anything else at all. So far, about 380 persons are registered as users of this injection room. On average, 25 injections are taken daily in this injection room. So I would also say... no, I can't, because the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e223	State councils can draw on a three-minute post, for example:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e226	Rusmis users’ association, RIO, believes that the system of injection rooms cannot be considered as a harm reduction measure. They feel that it is in practice acting as a harm-producing measure. They point out – and I think that is quite strong – that many people use larger doses because they feel safer in the injection room. However, this also leads to a higher risk of overdose. As I was in my post, the ambulances have pushed out 36 times to save people from dying because of overdoses in injection rooms. My question is what the Council of State thinks about the experiences of drug users and assessments of this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e233	I would like to stress that it is not the content of the spray room itself or what is being given there, which we are invited to debate today, but it is whether or not we should extend this probationary period. I am aware that there are different perceptions about it as well. I record that most of the hearing bodies that have spoken out are positive, but that some – those to whom the representative Sjøli refers – are negative. Of course I'll take that with me. I believe that it is very important that we find out whether this works as intended. As I see it, we don't get it if we don't have a thorough evaluation of the case and get this widely put forward for magnification and odelsting and get discussion on that background. All the questions that the representative and many with her have – for how this really works – are not a simple matter – will be answered when the evaluation is completed and we will have to go through it properly. Then we come back with a proper proposal for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e242	I have a question to the Council of State that goes right on this decision that was made two years ago – that it was important that one should not extend the scheme until one has received an evaluation in place. I wonder if it's also the Council of State's understanding of this. I understand from the statement to the Council of State that this report will be ready during the summer months. Of course, two years is a long time. I want to ask the Council of State when she expects a matter to come to the Storting, so that a person will just get the broad and good evaluation. It doesn't necessarily take two years to add up to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e249	It's absolutely right that it's not safe we need two years. It really depends on what the evaluation says. When we get it in the summer, of course, we add up to go very thoroughly into it and look at what it says. I would say that if we – this is going to be hypothetical, because I do not know now what the evaluation says – we would propose that there be a permanent system of injection rooms, we would of course have to have regular rounds in relation to legislative proposals, which the representative Hareide knows well as a former member of the government, with hearings, etc. It'll take time. It is difficult for me today to give an exact answer as to when we can come back, but it is very possible that we can come back in good time before 2009. The reason we've been asking for a two-year extension is because we're going to have that safety valve – instead of maybe coming back in half a year or a year and saying we need even a little more time. Here are really all possibilities open – both in terms of outcomes and in relation to when we get back, but we definitely come back in a thorough and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e256	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e259	The topic we are discussing now really originates from a proposal that originally came from SV. I was the case rapporteur for the previous period when we debated it here. There were shared and strong opinions about it also at that time. Also among drug-dependent organisations and their relatives’ organisations, opinions were shared. What was the big issue was whether these injection rooms should be staffed by health professionals, and what they should be allowed to do in that case. What we were very concerned about was that one should have an opportunity to guide the drug addicts, so they could put the syringes correctly, because we saw that very many people were having health consequences that were really unnecessary if they had received proper guidance. In it there are several ethical dilemmas. I've had a sea lodge with nurses on wheels, Fransiskushilfe, and I've been on the wound seat and I've seen what these bushes look like on a close team. I have to say that I am pleased that the injection rooms have an opportunity to provide guidance, in addition to the motivational work they are going to do and the information they are going to be able to provide. Someone is very sure about this matter. It's not me. I am sure that I think it is right to have an opportunity to operate injection rooms and that we should have an evaluation of this. But I want to be completely open when we get the results of the evaluation, if this turns out not to have worked after the intentions. I’m sure it’s not motivating for drug users — that they maintain their drug abuse due to drug injection rooms. I'm sure of that. At least it doesn't work motivating to make it harder for people who are already in a difficult situation. The representative, Sjøli, is critical because she believes that this will facilitate drug abuse. But where does the boundary go? Does the syringe distribution limit go? Is the limit for the distribution of condoms to the prostitutes, e.g. if you want to limit prostitution, as we want? The PRO Centre told us that foreign social workers on a study trip from England had reacted to the heating rooms that we had in Norway, because it could make it too easy to be a drug addict. Then it's pointed out that it's been overdosed 36 times. If it is a big problem that many people set too high a dose because they are in a safe environment, then it is important information that we need to receive and, in that case, we need an evaluation. I find it a little strange that those who are concerned about these overdoses, as one should be, are not more interested in getting the results of the evaluation in order to find out if, on the other hand, these people would have died if they had put the syringes elsewhere than in the injection room.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e274	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 609]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e290	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 609]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e306	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party, and that five lines be given with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e313	This issue concerns the creation of a central register of electronic prescriptions, or eRecipes. In this case, there is a quite clear distinction between the Government Party and the Advance Party and, in part, the Right Party, while the Christian People's Party and the Left have a stand of their own. I'll come back to that position. I expect the other parties to expand their views on this matter. A comprehensive committee is in favour of the possibilities offered by the introduction of an electronic prescription system. Misuse of medicinal products is very unfortunate for the individual patient and society as a whole. In addition, this matter is, after the Left's opinion, about something else very important, i.e. people's confidence in the health care system. Information on people’s health, both mental and physical, is one of the most vulnerable health services in the world. The left is very skeptical to a central register attached to the electronic prescription system. The left is not against electronic prescriptions, but we are against the solution that has been selected against a central database. A number of key health registers are still emerging. Since the early 1990s, eight central registers have been created with some very sensitive personal data. This is the ninth one, and they are listed in the option. We fear that more and more people will experience it so that they have to protect themselves from the health system. It's a very serious problem, as we in the Left don't feel drawn seriously enough by the Government. When a Health Committee has agreed that it is difficult for each individual to have an overview of how health information is used and stored, it is, in my view, alarming that the Government did not follow words and open up that it would at least be possible to reserve itself against being in the register. Give it an e.g. if you have a sexual illness, you would be fine if you could go to another city to get a prescription without everyone knowing about it, and that this information is not available in a large register. It is in this way that we ensure that the health care system has confidence in the population. In my opinion, we are constantly moving limits when it concerns the protection of privacy within the health sector. We are concerned that all people should be protected against improper registration, surveillance and interference in private life. Public authorities obviously need information, but the problem is that this is about to take over. Many people feel personally invaded when they understand how many people have access to intimate and personal information about them. There is a difference between finding information electronically and just having paper access to it. Violations of the storage of personal data are still being reported. It is argued that access should be logged, and that is OK and good, but the problem is only that a process must be run to follow the log. At least it doesn't happen by itself. We don't doubt those pharmacists, but it's the large number of people who are now getting access, we're skeptical about. Man makes mistakes, and the more involved, the greater the chance of mistakes. In Denmark, they have experience with the use of electronic prescriptions, which the Council of State is sure to know. In any case, there is a lot of information now to show that there are still major errors with the electronic prescriptions. 60 pst. of all errors with Danish prescriptions occur with electronic prescriptions. They have problems with uptime on central servers, etc. What's the main question here is: would we like to get our innermost and most personal information spread to so many different instances and people? We in the Left feel, unfortunately, a little alone with regard to addressing these issues of privacy. Our impression is that privacy too often has to give way to matters that are thought to be more important. In this case, as I said, only the Left and Christian People's Party rejects the establishment of a central register of prescriptions, and on this basis we vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e336	The amendments to the Health Registry Act that the Government has invited Odelstinget to adopt today will allow for the creation of a central, electronic database of prescription information allowing a transition from today’s paper-based prescriptions to electronic prescriptions. For patients, electronic prescriptions could improve patient safety by reducing the risk of misdelivery. eRecipt will also provide better pharmacies service and an electronic overview of its own valid prescriptions. The patient will be able to retrieve their medicines from any pharmacy. An electronic prescription solution will also contribute to the modernisation of pharmaceutical management in Norway. This innovation opens up that the doctor will send the prescription to the prescriber with an electronic message. The pharmacy is provided with the necessary prescription information from the prescriber when the customer comes to get the prescribed medicine. The prescriber is necessary to allow the patient to go to any pharmacy in order to obtain the medicinal product. The proposed amendment will allow electronic communication of prescription information in the prescriber, eResept. The prescribing agent will be defined as a central health record, even if the prescription information is only to be stored until the prescription is obtained — up to one year. The establishment of such a central health register requires decisions and legislative changes in the Stortinget. There is a unanimous committee that is in favour of the possibilities offered by the introduction of electronic prescription, while the Committee is less in agreement when it comes to the issue of central register. While new technologies and new electronic tools provide us with new and important opportunities in the health sector, we also face new challenges, such as: in the case of privacy. Strong data protection is an essential requirement for introducing new technological solutions in the health sector and, in my opinion, privacy is also very well protected in a national electronic prescription database. We all share the concern for a development where it is difficult for each individual to have an overview of how health information is used and stored. However, in the majority’s view, this is an argument for – and not against – a central database. Such a central database allows for a full overview of who has been provided with information and when the information was provided. The patient is fully aware of the prescriptions that have been stored at all times. The option is a message-based solution, but the majority believe that such a solution has weaknesses and is not well suited. With a message-based solution it becomes difficult for a doctor to revoke prescriptions with errors, there will be no free choice of pharmacy at all times, and no one will keep track of where the electronic prescription has been sent and forwarded. I would also like to stress that with a central database, patients can choose a so-called locked prescription. The individual patient is granted the right to lock his prescription with a reference number assigned when the doctor prints the prescription. One can only be supplied with the prescription if the reference number is available. At the same time, patients are also given the opportunity to choose the so-called ‘available’ prescription so that the prescription information can be provided without leaving the reference number. Finally, I would also like to stress the importance of patients and doctors being very well informed about the importance of choosing a locked or accessible prescription, and that the doctor must also be able to provide advice to the patient when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e359	I'm not going to extend the debate that much. I just want to say a little bit about the view of the Advance Party, because we are also concerned about privacy. Here you get a balance, where what is the most correct way to do it, so that the user's interests are taken into account, is balanced against the interests of privacy. In this case, I think it is actually done in a relatively useful way. When I say ‘relatively usable way’, it’s because the Advance Party wants you to have a right of reservation. We support the bill. What makes us fall on that view is because if we look at page 12 of the proposition, there are 18 hearing bodies that are positive to this. It is important to note that, among other things. Joint Organisation of disabled people, Norwegian Reumatikerbund, Kreftforeningen, Landsförbundet Against Substance Abuse, Landsföreningen voor Herzandlungsjuke, National Institute for Public Health – i.e., large, heavy organisations and patient organisations – wants to do so in place. It'll be more functional for the user. It will be easier to pick up the prescription elsewhere than in the local pharmacy, as it has been in the past. That is why the Progress Party recommends this and votes in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e373	The electronic prescription system shall ensure better use of medicinal products. The scheme shall help patients to obtain better access to prescriptions throughout the country. At the same time, the eRecipes shall contribute to a more efficient and secure transfer of prescription information from a doctor to a pharmacist. Prescription aid to doctors can be improved, control can be more effective and NAV can deal with reimbursement requests more quickly. The co-operation management started work on the introduction of an electronic register system through proposals for appropriations for the project in 2005. On the right, we see that the system of a central register for eRecipes is appropriate to ensure that patients have access to it and the possibility of quality assurance and control for the authorities. At the same time, we share many of the considerations that the Left and Christian People's Party points to in terms of privacy. Health information is sensitive by its nature and requires particular attention to be paid to data protection in the context of the exchange of such information. The right is therefore in favour of a central register system in which the information is encrypted with a key held by the patient, as described in paragraph 3.5.2. of the Proposition. The Data Protection Authority has pointed out that this is a solution that ensures better protection of privacy than the Government’s proposal, and the Right shares this assessment. We note that this makes control of the prescription difficult, and that the patient cannot get an overview of all valid prescriptions from the prescriber. However, from the Right, we believe that privacy needs to be taken into account in the context of the exchange of sensitive personal data. On this basis, the Right will vote in favour of the inclusion of a national database for electronic prescriptions in the third paragraph of Section 8 of the Health Register Act, but will vote against the proposal for the last sentence of the third paragraph of Section 8, where it is proposed to exempt from the requirement of encryption. On the right, we continue with the Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party on a proposal to ensure that the patient has a right to reserve himself against standing in the eReceptive Register. It is difficult to see the reasons why government parties cannot grant individual patients this right to have their own health information. The eRecipes shall contribute, as mentioned above, to a better use of medicinal products, in line with the leadership of the S.A. Report of the Cooperative Government. No 18 for 2004-2005, Correct course for proper drug use. One of the measures proposed there was the transfer of several medicinal products from individual to pre-authorised reimbursement, so that patients can have faster and better access to new medicinal products. We cannot see that this measure has been implemented – on the contrary, several medicines have been transferred from pre-authorised to individual reimbursement. Once the eRecept solution is put in place, it should facilitate the transfer of medicinal products from an individual to a pre-authorised reimbursement because the prescription aid to doctors can be improved. I would like to ask the Council to comment on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e388	I want to do something for the Christian People's Party in this matter. The government proposal would make the doctor's paper recipe a'story'. All medical staff are proposed to be registered in a national electronic data system where information and personal numbers are made available to permanent staff, pharmacists and the NAV Office of the country. For the Christian People's Party, there is a problem with a national database where a large and unknown number of people can access personal information. The government correctly proposes a sufficient ban on the use of the information for research, police or employers, but experience suggests that it is easy to search for use for purposes other than the original. What we do not want in the Christian People's Party is a situation where servers with access to the register sell recipe information to weekly press or to employers who take on privacy rules easily. What we want, at least, is to develop a culture of society that stigmatizes disease more and where private disease stories can feed the public. A mitigating condition is that data is not stored for all time, but only until the validity of the recipes expires. However, this restriction is of little help to many chroniclers, who are already the most vulnerable patient group. The optimum is an efficient system where the prescription itself is electronic, without being stored in a central register. It is difficult to see that private prescriptions have something to do in a central register. We in the Christian People's Party are therefore positive to an electronic prescription, but the arrangement must not become a goal in itself. We think that privacy must be decisive for the view we land on when we see this as a whole, and it is primarily in the number of people who get this available. We see all the positive effects of this, but we hope – although this bill will be accepted today – that it will continue to work to ensure an even better level of privacy from this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e403	The articles here in the debate show – as in other matters where we talk about digital records where personal data is stored – that there is a fear that personal data will not be affected in her. I think to the extent that we should have a healthy fear of it. But we know that e.g. snooping in journals is a problem, a problem that the Minister of Health has actually addressed. The chance of snooping into digital journals – which have a completely different security and traceability as to who has been included in the file – is less and provides a completely different level of security. The legal proposal on the prescriber is based on ensuring safe and effective prescription information, and also on contributing to ensuring patients’ right to the free choice of pharmacy. A significant question that has been raised during the proceedings is whether patients can make a reservation from the new electronic prescription agent. The background for such a wish may be that the individual patient does not want their disease to become known to others. The centre party believes that the bill has taken this issue into account, and believes that there is therefore no basis for reservation rights. For when the patient can lock the prescription by selecting the reference number, no one other than the applicant and those to whom the patient chooses to give the reference number may have the prescription or information provided. It is established that if a doctor other than the prescriber is required to obtain access to, or information on, the medicinal products obtained by the patient, this may only be done by consent of the patient. This will be regulated in a regulation to be consulted. Furthermore, the prescriber does not become a storage site for prescriptions years back. The prescription information shall be deleted when the prescription has been completed and thus no longer valid. Furthermore, all supply of prescription information from the prescriber shall be logged. This will allow any abuse to be traced. And above all, the obligation of professional secrecy of the prescriber applies as before to pharmacists and anyone else in the health sector who has professional secrecy. The obligation of professional secrecy is crucial in all interactions between healthcare professionals, pharmacists and patients, and applies, of course, as before. The Progress Party and the three bourgeois parties that constituted the government during the previous ageing period say in a note that it is the sum of all information that is the problem, etc., and not least that electronic solutions usually open up access to information for many more. With regard to the latter, ‘more people get access to information’, I believe that this is a claim and not a fact. Access to the information in electronic registers is monitored and ensured in a much better way. It's legal who has access to the register. Snoring in a paper-based register doesn't track. The rules and restrictions in an electronic register ensure patient information in a much better way than if it is only in a paper register.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e418	The draft law that Odelstinget is dealing with today ensures that electronic prescriptions can be introduced in Norway. The technical solution to which this is added, with a central database, helps, as I see it, modernise the pharmaceutical administration. I believe that both patients, doctors, pharmacies and the authorities will benefit. The central database, or the broker, as several speakers have been involved, will have many functions. The important thing is to ensure the safe and effective dissemination of prescription information to those who need such information to help the patient. That's the main point. This agent has several advantages. Firstly, the patient can pick up the medicinal product in the pharmacy he wants at any time. Secondly, as several speakers have said, the patient can ‘lock’ the prescription, i.e. to protect it with a reference number. Then there is no other than the patient's seaman and his doctor who can see the prescription without having the reference number. All delivery of prescription information shall be logged in order to trace back the course. If someone has looked at the prescription without medicinal products being supplied, this shall be followed up by the responsible data handler. The prescriber may also revoke the prescription if there is a need to change the prescription. It is important to ensure privacy, and that is why we also propose that the prescribing agent be included in the Health Register Act. The law also requires us to draw up a separate regulation on how to manage the prescriber, and I would like to point out a department that will be responsible for this data processing. The data protection authority shall monitor the use of the prescribing agent on a regular basis. This strict regulation shall ensure clear responsibilities so as to safeguard privacy. As I mentioned earlier, there are several mechanisms in the solution itself to ensure privacy: logging information, locking prescriptions and deleting completed prescriptions. It will also be prohibited to use information for research, to supply it to the employer and to use it in insurance and criminal proceedings. I would like to include health professionals, including pharmacists, who are usually bound by professional secrecy. In my view, privacy is well maintained in the proposed eRecept system. The alternative to a central database is a message-based system that does not provide the same possibilities, as I see it, for safe and effective delivery. I would like to remind you that both Sweden and Denmark have had message-based systems for many years. They have recently switched to central databases. We must bear in mind that the main objective of the prescriber is to provide the population with effective access to proper medicines. I think it is important not to make arrangements that are heavy for doctors and patients. In addition, these have to be simple to understand for those who are going to use this. For privacy, it is most important that doctors and patients understand that they can lock the prescription so that only those who know the reference number can access it. The government has also carefully assessed whether we should propose that patients be given the right to reserve the right to use electronic prescription. We have found that as long as the patient can choose to lock the prescription, he will have very good control over the information. When we know that electronic prescription provides the best patient safety, I am skeptical about reservation rights, because the patient and doctor can then continue with the paper version of ‘old habit’. In order for all parties to benefit from the benefits of eRecept, it is important that as many as possible use this solution. I look forward to the results of this initiative. We state – if Odelstinget decides – that in April 2008 a pilot will be assigned to operate with genuine prescriptions. We have the goal of 80 pst. of the prescriptions shall be electronic in 2011. This is therefore an important step towards safer and more modern pharmaceutical management.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e443	The background for my question is the representative's posts, where the representative pointed out that when choosing a locked prescription, the patient decides who has access to information. I'll draw the attention to page 23 of the proposition, where it says: ‘With the use of a locked prescription, the patient will have control of the prescription information to the same extent as with paper prescriptions.’ The problem arises when we talk about the central register, because to the extent that you are currently using the paper version, the paper version can be destroyed after use, i.e. that the patient has full control of that prescription. So, as far as what is proposed here is concerned, it must be possible to store the information in a central register. My question to the Council of State is: if the version of the representative is correct, that it is the patient himself at the locked prescription that controls all of this, what is the background for not going to a consent-based register?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e457	First, to the question of reservation rights, because that's what I understand is under the question from the representative Nesvik. The government believes that this is not necessary when we choose this solution, which is called locked prescription. This means that when a person goes to the doctor and receives a prescription, a person can choose to have it locked. That means it's you and the doctor, sorry president, the patient and the doctor who know what it contains, and you get a reference number. I believe that eRecept provides the best patient safety. Providing a right of reservation, it is common – with experience from when introducing other schemes – that a person likes to adhere to the old habit, and in this case there would have been paper-based prescriptions. That would have led us not, as I see it, to get the full count of this scheme, because it's very important that the most possible is in the scheme. I therefore believe that privacy is well secured through the fences and fences we put around this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e464	I am pleased that the debate in this Chamber for once has got privacy on the map, because there is an important debate. What is in a way the argument for keeping privacy in mind and balancing it against the others is that when it loses privacy. I have to say that it was disappointing to the right state council to say that it will be difficult – she used that expression – to have any system other than a central register. I have e.g. read that the National Auditor's report comes out with a question about his/her computer system, where he/she says something about securing social security data. Because the dry matter has a very large amount of data, I think it is scary. Now is the scheme of medicine on blue prescription under assessment. There is a prescription to change, and there are also questions about having a code on the prescription. The unit of general practitioners thinks there's a violation of privacy here. Does the Council of State agree with the opinion of the General Medical Association here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e475	The President will remind you that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e478	No, I do not agree with them in that statement, because you have to remember that today's situation is that many of the written prescriptions are in plastic folders. In relation to the system we get here through a central database, where it's possible to agree with the doctor on locking the prescription, I think it's a much safer system than what's today's system. So if Odelstingen joins this, it's a very strict regulation that's going to happen through that law school. It'll be a separate eReceptive Regulation, and in that regulation, the Government will maritimely follow up the vision that Odelstinget expresses. It will be a data controller's office. The data supervision shall be subject to supervision and shall be subject to the obligation of professional secrecy as a consequence. In addition, it will be an explicit prohibition on using information, as I said in my main post, for research, for employers, for insurance cases and for criminal prosecution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e485	I am making a new attempt to get a supplementary answer to my question, which was initially about the insertion of the representative of the Skjellaa from the government parties. He said that if you choose a locked prescription, there is no one who will have access to information in that prescription without knowing it himself. It was also linked to the central register. Then my question to the Council of State is: why can't you actively choose a consent-based system related to the right of reservation, if that's the right thing the representative of Kjellaa says? Because as I read the proposition, you will be able to have access to the information that will lie here, under given assumptions and given circumstances, both for research purposes and for other things. Can the Council comment on this? Have I understood the Skjæla's version correctly, or is it such that others will be able to see this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e492	If Odelstingen joins this, it will be an explicit prohibition on using the information, for example. for research. It won't be that someone can go into the central database, take out a name and a number and a diagnosis, but I understand that's not what Nesvik says either. But it'll be explicitly forbidden, as we suggest. When it comes to locking the prescription, and you get a reference number, it is also very important that all doctors get information about this, so that they can offer it to their patients, and that everyone can take part in it. So there's going to be a reference number that makes it stay between the patient and the doctor. It's a fact. Then I also want to add that in addition to the possibility of using so-called locked prescriptions, logging, it's also important what several speakers were about, namely that ready-to-speech prescriptions are deleted, so that they don't become eternal, but then they leave the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e501	I just want to follow up a little bit on what I mentioned about the General Medical Association. So the Ministry of Health and Health has sent out a proposal for a change to the prescription on blue prescription medicine. It appears that a diagnostic code should now be applied to the bladder prescription. This is when the General Association says that they fear privacy violations, because the proposed changes will give a completely unnecessary spread of confidential information. Then we are at the heart of this debate on privacy. How many are there actually going to be able to access the sensitive information? That's the main point. Do we have to use arguments like it's heavy for some users? Is there going to be the fundamental element of privacy, which is most important in all democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e508	If I understand the representative Ludvigsen correctly, the representative raises a slightly different question than the one contained in the bill we are discussing today, so it is possible to come back to this in other contexts. Then I am aware that the General Medical Association has its opinion on the matter raised by the representative here. However, in the context of the issue we are discussing today, I would also like to draw your attention – but the representative is certainly also aware – to the fact that patient organisations are very much in favour of the system of a central database, which we are now introducing. As long as you have the opportunity to lock the prescription and get a reference number, I believe that privacy and patient safety have been strengthened in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e515	No more words have been asked for a line. Furthermore, no more have asked for a case to be brought. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 609]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e533	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given within the allocated speaking time after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e542	With the exception of one point, there is a unanimous committee supporting the proposed amendments to Ot.prp. No 44. The content is mainly legislative adjustments and the creation of a number of laws, but there are a few material changes and clarifications. In addition, Stortinget has received a letter from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion on the need for some other legal adjustments in the Swedish Social Security Act. The Committee also unanimously promotes those legislative changes. I have some comments on some of the individual provisions. There is a real change in § 9-10 of the first paragraph of the Swedish Social Security Act when the right to care is now to be granted not only at the time of hospitalisation but also in the case of outpatient treatment in hospitals. It is important, because medical development means that someone had to be hospitalized before to get carried out, one can have done out-of-office today. It may also apply to children with severe conditions. The medical condition of the patient does not need to be altered in itself – improved or changed – it is only the place of treatment. Because it is the seriousness of the condition that is to determine whether or not you are entitled to care allowance, it has been absolutely necessary to change these rules, so that no one loses the right to care because of the new treatment methods, and not because there has been a change in the life situation. The Committee has been concerned in the matter of the difficult situation of life that some families experience when close family members become seriously ill. One can get into a very difficult dispute between doing work and caring and dealing with very seriously ill and being present in critical situations. It is therefore very important and correct when the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has now set up an interministerial group to look at the need for changes in laws and regulations relating to work and care in such situations. We have all been made aware of some individuals who have come into very difficult situations, such as: have had to report in order to deal with such a situation. Now the government says that the working group that is set up will be done on 1 July, and that the government will come back to Stortinget if necessary, after they have looked at this work and assessed it. The Storting is very pleased with that. With regard to the provision on transitional benefits and the right of extension in order to complete a school year, a proper basis is now given in Section 15-6. It is important to stress that it has always been meant to be so, and that the law has also been practised this way, depending on whether the law has not been fully up-to-date. The Committee has also been very concerned with the clarifications currently being made in Sections 22 to 3 of the Swedish Social Security Act and that it must ensure that there is no room for interpretation – or doubt – that a worker should not have to risk having to pay back his salary to the employer under maternity leave, unless he has received a birth grant. The Committee has therefore asked the Government to review practice and legislation and, if necessary, to make changes, if necessary to ensure that this does not happen or that someone entitled to a birth grant does not receive it. It is important that one is concerned that the benefits that we have adopted, which should be universally linked to special situations in life, actually benefit them as it was supposed to have them. What we know about under-use is that it very often hits those who need the money the most. That's why it's important that we make sure that all the procedures work, so that you actually get the rights you need. There is one point where the Progress Party does not support the suspension, and that is in terms of the choice of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairman in common advice for the elderly and disabled. Technically, what we have been asked to adopt today is no change in law. It is a legal principle that newer laws take precedence over older laws. So when the law on municipal councils for people with disabilities is a newer law than the law on municipal councils for the elderly, it is the rules of the one to be followed if not otherwise adopted. It is maritime so that it is possible to have a different view of how this should be done. But in principle, what we're doing now is just confirming the legal practices that should have been followed, and it now ends up with the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e559	I feel the need to take the floor now partly in order to supplement and elaborate some of what the rapporteur said related to one point in the vote, and also to say a little more about what the Committee has had in commenting on the first paragraph of Paragraphs 22 to 3. It is stated in the proposal that in March 2006, the Ministry of Social Security drew attention to the fact that, in a decision of 13 May 2005, the Social Security Court had established an interpretation of the rules which were not in accordance with practice and, in the opinion of the Riksstrøgdeverket, did not have any intention behind the rules either. I'm going to be the first to admit that this is reasonably complicated – social security is like that. There are many paragraphs and a lot of things that are relatively complicated. In a hectic time with a need for very rapid treatment, I basically felt that on the part of the committee we were not given the opportunity to go deep enough into the matter. Therefore, I feel a need to keep an article to clarify what we have meant by what we write in the setting. In the case of maternity benefits, the employee must submit a separate maternity benefit form directly to the social security office in addition to the reimbursement requirement to be submitted by the employer. Both these forms must have entered the social security office within the three-month period for the employer to be reimbursed. It's an important starting point. I have gone into the very claim from the Social Security Court, which it refers to in the proposition, and read it – in fact twice. This is a young woman in a non-named municipality in the West – the judgment was anonymous – who was required by her employer, i.e. the municipality, for the birth allowance she had not been paid, but for which the employer demanded reimbursement. Then we have a problem. There are some women — there are not many — who may be about 15-20 a year — who are not aware that they also have to submit maternity pay claims even when they continue to receive pay from the employer after they have gone into maternity leave. You do not get the birth money in your hand in the same way that you get a medical report from your doctor. That's when the problem can arise. When the employer sends the income and tax forms, the employer expects the person who is born to have sent the birth allowance claim or that the social security office has made sure that the woman sends it in. When the social security office receives a claim from the employer, the social security office sends a warning to the woman if her claim is missing, but this is where errors may occur. In some cases, the woman simply doesn't get the claim in her, often because of moving. She may be so marked by birth that she cannot send it in, or the notice will come just too late. Three months is a short time if the employer submits the claim at the end of the period. Social security takes some time to send the notification to the woman, and she should fill in and return the form within the time limit. So here's a part of what I want to call social security, how single women come into a completely hopeless and, too many, dramatic economic situation, which I hope it's possible to clean up in a practical way. This has nothing to do with party politics. I think we fully agree on this, all of us in the committee, and that is what we have meant by what we write in the vote – we ask the Government to go through legislation and practice and provide procedures in this area so that we avoid individual women getting into a situation where the employer is entitled under a contract of employment between the employer and the employee to claim reimbursement for maternity benefits that are not refunded to the employer. Just this is a little bit of a ‘tricky’, as it's called, but I think that with good will it can be possible to find routines here that allow you to avoid this kind of social security trap. That is what the Committee asks the State Council to contribute to the clean-up of the waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e578	Let me just start by saying that I think it was an exemplary presentation by the representative of Engeses linked to the challenges we have had with the matter dealt with in the Social Security Court. I really don't need to supplement it any more, except to say that I fully agree that what we are doing now is right, legally, but that it requires that we have good routines to guide people, so that no misunderstandings and mistakes lead to individual people getting into difficult situations. That is why I have also noticed what the Committee has said about looking at practice. I am going to look at possibilities for improvements to procedures in the design of the requirement form, etc. I take with me both what the committee has said in the vote, and what the representative Mr Engeset now said so well from the pulpit. Otherwise, let me just comment on a couple of things in the proposition otherwise, which are more material in nature and not just legal. The first step is to extend the right of care to outpatient treatment. I remember that we dealt with this question in the previous period, and I thought at the time, when we did some expansion, that it's only a matter of time before we have to get back to this matter here in the hall and make the change that we're now doing. It is a logical consequence of medical and technical progress, which causes an increasing number of disorders, an increasing number of acute situations, to be treated outpatiently and not through hospitalisation. The question of whether to treat outpatients or through hospitalisation does not really have much to do with the seriousness of the situation — it has more to do with the form of treatment. For this reason, people with extensive care needs can be treated outpatiently. If we hadn't made this change now, we would have experienced getting fewer and fewer people in the audience of the law, and more and more people would have felt that there was no offer of care for them, because more and more people would be treated outpatiently. Then I need to say a few words about the rights of parents to premature babies. I would like to stress that there is no disagreement that these should be taken care of. Int. S. No 127 for 2005-2006, the Committee underlines: ‘It is clear that the benefit can be provided to both parents according to Sections 9-11.’ In assessing whether the conditions of § 9-11 of the Law on Social Security are met, the Committee also stresses that: ‘individual judgement shall be based on medical judgement’. As stated in written reply No. 970 of 9 May 2007 to the representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli is the challenge ‘first of all, to ensure the greatest possible level of non-discrimination through the definition of the regulatory practice guidelines’. In the context of the 2008 State Budget, I would like to provide the Stortinget with a briefing on the status of this work, based on feedback from the Directorate which, in consultation with the relevant professional communities, will provide an assessment of the need for changed guidelines and, where appropriate, other measures to ensure a more consistent practice. It was important for me to say this, because there has been a media debate on the follow-up to what I have said in Stortinget on this matter earlier. I thank you for that debate, because it gave me the opportunity to ask where the work was. I did not receive a satisfactory answer to that, and that is why we have now tightened this up, with clear deadlines, and the Stortinget will get an insight into it in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e607	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e610	I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that there has now been a clarity and a change in the legislation that we are dealing with today, namely that this will also apply to those who receive outpatient treatment, and not only to those who are hospitalised. The Council of State was concerned that, in connection with the fact that we dealt with this matter in Stortinget last year, he clearly said that he would sort this out. I trusted that he would. But it turned out in the spring that the situation for parents with seriously ill children living in the prematurity department was still unchanged. As the Council of State was about to do, I asked a written question as to when he wanted to follow up what Stortinget asked for, and then got an answer where he admitted that such a review more than one year after the matter was up in Stortinget, had not been carried out. I agree with the Council of State when he says in his letter that he finds this very little satisfactory, and that nothing has been done for the cooperation between the trade unions on a good and fair interpretation of the legislation and a similar practice across the country. I am now pleased that the Council of State is taking this into account and getting this work in place. I am looking forward to the Stortinget being briefed on this work in connection with the budget for the autumn. I think there's a lot of frustration among these parents. They're in a very stressful situation. They have children at home, and they have sick children in hospitals. These are situations that can last for many weeks, perhaps months, and it is important that we facilitate parents' being able to be together, that they can support each other and share responsibility over such a period, and avoid living with additional burdens due to rigid legislation and different interpretations of the legislation. So now I have confidence that the Council of State will be clear and clear in relation to both the trade unions and the social security systems, and that he will ensure that a good arrangement for these parents will be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e621	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 610]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e637	This case is about minor changes to the law of introduction. There are three paragraphs that are proposed to be amended. It is the second paragraph of Section 12 which regulates the benefits paid by the Employment and Welfare Act to the municipality when participants in the introduction programme participate in actions under the Employment and Welfare Act. There are also two amendments to Section 23. Section 23, third paragraph, first sentence, provides access to a national personal register for the introduction system and training in Norwegian and social knowledge for newly arrived immigrants. The third sentence of the third paragraph of Section 23 provides for the right to record information on Norwegian training for asylum seekers in this register. It's an overall committee that's behind the recommendation. The amendment to Section 12 does not entail any material changes. The amendments to Section 23 are in so far as a natural follow-up to the training of asylum seekers from the autumn of 2007. Although opinions can be shared on this — and that has been the case in Stortinget in the past — it is a natural follow-up to current policies in this area. On the part of the Progress Party, we have always stressed that Norwegian training for asylum seekers is not natural, simply because the vast majority of asylum seekers will still be sent back to their country of origin. We think it is particularly important to provide training for these people. Although it can be claimed – and often done – that the procedure is long, that people have to wait a long time, that it is an early start to integration, this is due to the error of the procedure. It will be wrong when it takes too long to deal with asylum cases in Norwegian foreign administration, and it is not right to correct this by introducing Norwegian training for asylum seekers. The Progress Party supports the legislative change, because we see that it is appropriate, given today's policy. It is also interesting to note that the former government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who opposed Norwegian training for asylum seekers, have obviously now turned around, as they have a note together with the government parties where it is considered a good measure to have Norwegian training for asylum seekers. Here, the former government parties have clearly turned around. The party of progress is clearly alone as the only party that cannot understand – I must honestly say – why Norwegian training is to be given to people who, to a greater extent, will in any case be returned to their country of origin. It's a strange and, of course, misguided policy. Nor should it be concentrated on reducing the processing time, not adding up to integrating people who should in any case be returned. This is a minor change in the law, and as I said, it is an overall committee that is behind the recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e654	I am looking forward to that day also the Progress Party understands that language training is good in the reception of asylum. It is good to see that today there is an almost total amount of money, both past and current government parties, which stand together and have almost a completely common recommendation in the setting. Language is the key to community. That's the key to understanding. This law came as a consequence of the fact that we want to offer an offer to people in the asylum recipients as well. We see that there are too many people sitting there for too long. The worst thing that can happen is that people get stuck like passive receivers. Then we make people clients during the reception period. The provision of language training is exclusively positive. We in the majority can't see it as a big problem that some Afghans or Somalis can get a little Norwegian when they return. There is no major social problem, but there can be a major social problem when those in reception, who will become Norwegian and live in Norway, are not trained during the time they are in reception. We then abuse the human resource as they are, if we don't help them get started. I am pleased that we have received Norwegian training from 1 September. It's a natural consequence of the amendment of the law. That we can get a more active period in the receptions is good. Through language training where they can get to work more easily and easily into the society in which they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e667	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 613]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e680	The odelsting shall now vote in the cases No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e710	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e723	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Right and Christian People's Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e737	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e782	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e792	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e852	The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e870	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e905	The President assumes that the Christian People's Party and the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e918	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Christian People's Party and the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e930	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e940	B will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e1246	The Progress Party has announced here that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e1289	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e1299	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e1359	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e1369	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-06-lower.ana.ud819e1380	There is no record.
