ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e31	Honourable co-representatives! We have received the message that former wholesaler Reidar Strömdahl has gone away. He was 93 years old. Reidar Strömdahl met as a payroll representative for the Workers' Party over five major periods. For the first four periods he was representative of Vestfold, and for the last period he met with Buskerud. Reidar Stroemdahl was born in 1913 in Forests in Westfold. He was the son of carpenter Martinius Stroemdahl Kristoffersen and housewife Anette Grinde. He had a diverse and rich professional career. He started as a young man in a wooden truck office. Later he worked a time in the NSB, before he went over to journalism. After obtaining accounting and auditing training, he was employed in the National Audit Office in 1936, where he worked as first secretary, consultant and later chief of bureau. From 1968 to 1983 he was CEO of Lier Hospital. Reidar Strömdahl came early into politics. He founded the Young Workers' League in Forests and was its first chairman. He later became president of the Forest Workers' Party and had a number of municipal positions, including the following: as Chairman of the Board of Supervisors, the Municipal Settlements Department, the Administrative Committee and the Children’s Protection Board. Further, he was, among other things, a member of the Committee for the Treatment of Leverage Allowances, of the Committee for Standardisation of Civil Protection and of the Lier Hospital Plan Committee. Strömdahl was also active in the sports movement and had a position of trust in several sports organisations. It is, however, above all that the representative of the Grandfather, Mr Strömdahl, will be remembered. Throughout his 20 years at Stortinget, from 1950 to 1969, he sat in the Justice Committee, with great respect for his thorough, accurate and conscientious work. He had a correct and concise form of expression, and he was clear, simple and straight on the matter. When Strömdahl took the word in one case, he was always well prepared. Although he was not among those who appeared at the Great Council's pulpit in exorcism, he did not awoke for a fresh debate, and he had both touched and pierced the line. Among the issues that took him seriously on the Stortinget was the civil defence cases and the work on child and youth protection. In addition, he was always the rapporteur on prison issues. In the postwar years, Strömdahl was an active driver for the construction of new and modern prisons, and he was a strong champion for providing the prisoners with good opportunities for active work, training and education. In this way he was a pastor of modern criminal care and rehabilitation. He also committed himself strongly to those addicts who he thought had to be treated as sick and not as criminals. Worthy care for the support of society was one of Strömdahl's most important battles. For its long and expedient efforts for social justice, Reidar Strömdahl was honored with honorary membership of the Norwegian Labour Party in 1969. In private life, Reidar Stroemdahl was known for being unusually familiar with the fine sense of humor, and he was well-liked by all. He will be remembered as a good person with great social commitment. It is in deep respect that we bring peace to Reidar Stroemdahl's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e52	The representative, Gunvald Ludvigsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e55	On behalf of the representatives of Lars Sponheim, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to make a proposal on health insurance and privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e60	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e66	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that, today, Thursday 18 January, after the final meeting of the Annual General Meeting, the minutes of the Odelstinget should be held. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e86	The starting point for using public money is using other people's tax money. It calls for the greatest care. It calls for the proper use and transparency and reprobability of resource use decisions. Unfortunately, it turns out time and time again that it is sinning against these values, and just public procurement has proved to be an area where there is a lot of sin – and that is not the small thing it is about. The public sector in Norway has annual acquisitions of goods and services, including works, for nearly NOK 250 billion. The importance of public acquisitions for efficiency and resource use in the public sector is therefore high. Overall, these acquisitions constitute one of the largest markets for business and up to 20 pst. of our total gross domestic product. In the annual report of the Riksrevision, called Document No. 1, reference is made to a number of, and partly, infringements of, the public procurement law, including violations of what should be entirely fundamental principles of competition, non-discrimination and transparency — and hence reprobability. Unfortunately, sales without sound bidding rounds, insufficient documentation and acquisition processes and weaknesses in the use of framework agreements are a recurring feature of too many public enterprises. Unfortunately, little or nothing has improved in a number of establishments which in previous years have had some severe comments on similar issues. The National Audit Office highlights the considerable seriousness of non-compliance and underlines, inter alia: this could lead to a significant increase in the risk of abuses and misappropriations associated with the use of public funds, and not least the inefficient use of government resources. In the end, then, this is the individual citizen's tax money. Unfortunately, it is a wide range of departments and state establishments which, according to the Riksaudition, violate the rules of public procurement. Some people are old people in this industry, for example. The Directorate of Labour — a directorate which is currently under a rather intense public attention for other reasons. They have received similar comments from the Riksrevision for the fourth consecutive year. The Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion is responsible for taking this ‘serious’ and the rates of ‘relevance of skills and updating and training’ this year. [[...]] self-guidelines’. This hardly seems to be an adequate response or solution for anyone other than probably in-house in the department itself. The Directorate of Fisheries is another activity whose acquisition practices in some cases once again, according to the National Audit Office, constitute ‘a massive breach of existing public procurement legislation’. This has taken place through an opaque process, which has led to discrimination between potential providers and that those acquisitions have become more expensive than necessary. The National Audit Office's concrete examples are many and span the whole spectrum of services and activities. Notes of lack of acquisitions have been sent to the Swedish Children’s Protection Agency, the Directorate of Customs and Fees, the Ministry of Defence and the Food Authority. The Food Authority has itself stated to the Riksrevision that 20 out of 40 suppliers have been selected without evidence of procurement, or without any tender at all. Now I am aware that the Food Authority was established quite quickly and under quite strong pressure from the Storting, but it is important that the Ministry of Renewal complies with these rules, so that no urgency can be an excuse to break the rules, because the rules are also set there by the same magnitude. The Ministry of Knowledge, the State Road Administration and the Air Safety Authority are further examples of bad offices. Otherwise, it also appears that the Council of State has a certain job to do by sweeping its own door, since the Riksrevision particularly points out that it is ‘unlucky’ and ‘critical’ that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration itself does not have procedures in place to comply with the procurement rules, despite the fact that this has been pointed out on repeated occasions. The Council of State will probably come in response to tell us how much fine tools – or ‘adorn’ – it was under the auspices of a former Minister of Industry – she has in her mind to improve the situation. Equipped with the new public procurement and public procurement legislation – hereinafter ‘KOFA’ – the Council of State will be ready to address the issue. The very subject of complaints is an interesting illustration of how much need has actually been – and still is – for cleaning up in this field. Since it was established under the Bondevik II government in 2003, it has dealt with between 180 and 260 cases annually, a total of 868 cases. Currently, more than 100 cases have been dealt with, continued with a treatment period of up to one year, according to the denominator’s own websites – despite the state council’s almost one year-old insurance to Storingsretten Torbjørn Hansen. In a letter from the Ministry, the Council of State states that the work is under way, as it is called, with the emphasis on reducing the number of people remaining and the duration of treatment in general. At that time, not much has happened in the last year in relation to KOFA. It shall be added that user studies show that users are satisfied with the handling of KOFA. That is good, but the procedure is still too long. This means that KOFA needs to take care of important issues and priorities in such a way that important issues are not dealt with in such a way that they can be effective. To put it another way: it seems like you can almost say that it is easier to sin then to ask for forgiveness afterwards than that treatment in KOFA has a real effect on the case. As early as last February, the media reported that business regards it as pointless to submit a complaint. At that time, the treatment period was 7 months. Now it's longer. I assume that the Council of State sees the importance of this work on tidy, open and verifiable acquisition processes based on real competition. I believe that, in addition to referring to rules, it is important that the Council of State puts these issues on the political agenda of the Government and makes sure that this work is really emphasised by political groups, i.e. by the Councils of State in other departments. It is certainly the case that this government has already started its budgetary work for 2008, and then it is my experience that there is a lack of money at some point. It might also be useful to look at your own business, if you can't get more out of the money you actually have at your disposal, without collecting more from taxpayers, and then acquisition practices are really one of the big areas to throw over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e114	Let me first thank the representative Foss for taking up what is a very important matter for us, and that gives me the opportunity to review the changes we have now made in the law on public procurement, proposals that are just about to prevent the violation of the rules – conscious or not. No one should be in any doubt that this government believes that the crimes referred to by the Riksrevision are unsustainable, likes that we think other violations of the legislation that have been covered in the public sector last year are also unsustainable. We've got the problem covered, and we're doing something about it. Zero tolerance shall apply to deliberate breaches of the procurement law. If you do not wish to comply with the legislation, it will have consequences. Last year, the government received a bill change here in Stortinget, and new legislation applies from 1 January this year. From the New Year onwards, purchases such as those made without first having announced a competition and contrary to the law may be punishable by a fee of up to 15 pst. of the purchase value. Purchases a 1 million dollar service. NOK without having announced the purchase, the company will therefore have to pay up to NOK 150 000 in the infringement fee. That's what I think it's going to be. In order for this to be known as a real threat and lead to better compliance with the rules, it is important that purchasers be sure that the penalty is enforced. As you know, the KOFA is going to have this task. In the fall we changed the regulation so that the circle of those who are able to complain about illegal direct purchases to KOFA is now expanded. Before that, you had to have an actual closeness to the purchase, now this is removed in these matters: Anyone can in principle complain. In order to improve the effectiveness of these new rules, it was decided that complaints in these cases should not pay the appeal fee. With these measures, the threshold for dealing with complaints about illegal direct purchases is the lower. This, of course, increases the risk of having to pay dearly for the lack of compliance with the rules. Capacity challenges in KOFA shall not be a sleep cushion for purchasers. I am pleased that the Stortinget agreed to our proposal to increase the scope for both 2006 and 2007. KOFA is now well protected to carry out the task of detecting and punishing illegal direct purchases and other offences. When the representative Foss says that nothing has happened since I announced to the representative Torbjørn Hansen last year that we were now cleaning up, it simply has to do with the fact that the Stortinge gave these money before the summer, because it was in the revised budget the Government proposed it. It has to be broken down by a treatment in Stortinget. Then we have a summer vacation that makes a call and an addition process take some time. But early in the fall we had new case handlers in place. I myself was in Bergen in November and I was talking to KOFA and the secretary, and I got a very clear impression that they were now getting the leftovers down. We have also just carried out an evaluation of KOFA, where the impression is that Foss claims to be the opposite; business is almost more satisfied with KOFA than I had hoped. So we don't have to be involved and reinforce the impression that KOFA isn't working. KOFA is working, but of course, the leftovers are going down, and that's why we've made the way forward for 2007. In addition, the Government has chosen to introduce a new obligation to keep a record for all purchases above NOK 100000. This will, of course, also apply to purchases in the department and the agencies under consideration. Now small purchases will also be able to be verified, and the protocol will be used, among other things. be able to verify compliance with the competition requirement. A simple, optional form has been developed that covers the content of a protocol, so that it is easy for purchasers to fulfil their obligations. Protocols shall be recorded and circulated by public mailing lists. When new public law enters into force, probably from next year, the protocol becomes a public document. So if a buyer violates the basic regulatory requirement when making a purchase, the risk of being discovered is significantly greater than before. In addition, of course, the protocol shall be included in the material to be audited each year, both in municipalities, county councils, state offices and the interior. It is such that violations of the procurement law may have more reasons than the lack of willingness to publish the procurement. Fragmentation may be caused by a lack of knowledge as to when the legislation applies and how the legislation is to be applied. While a lack of legislative commitment must be met with sanctions, control and punishment, information and guidance is needed if the organisation is to lack competence on how to carry out a procurement. For this reason, I have also invested a great deal in prevention measures. As of 1 January of this year, we have put in place a new and simplified public procurement code. I believe and hope that once these rules have been reviewed and updated, they will also be easier to follow. In connection with the renewal of the legislation, we developed a new and comprehensive guide. He came in print before Christmas, so the buyers would have time to get into the code before it would start to apply. It was sent to purchasers throughout the country, including to the municipalities. It's already empty, so we have to press up a new and larger edition. In addition, of course, we have created an electronic version, and that is the version we are going to bet on to be kept up-to-date. I think the guide will be a good tool that will make it easier for each purchase to follow the code. As a further follow-up to the regulatory guide, the government in my department is constantly out and giving talks on the new rules to increase the knowledge and enforcement of these. As you can see, we have taken a number of measures to increase the focus on legislation, make it easier to access and not least have a good guide on how to use it. In addition to these measures, we are continuously considering the extent to which additional measures can or should be implemented to provide adequate guidance and information in this area. So we have seen a number of measures to promote compliance. But then it's like that that procurement has been delegated in the public sector. For the ministry, this means that the responsibility for carrying out the procurement, and thus for ensuring that a person has sufficient competence to carry out the procurement in a proper manner, lies with each department and with each of the underlying activities. I have not heard that the representative Foss intends to centralise the purchase, but it may well come up with further details – we do not intend to propose it. So concretely to the Riksrevision report. We will certainly have a debate on it later, when the committee has finished examining the whole report, but let me just say that I think content is embarrassing. I mean it, straight out -- it's embarrassing. I immediately, in fact on the same day, informed that a letter would be sent out here – we can't have it like that. I sent a letter to all departments, where I asked them to take better care that the code is complied with by their own purchase. I asked the state councils in each department to make sure that their underlying etats give these rules more attention. Each department has to look at its internal procedures to assess how these can be improved. Similarly, I asked that each department should work to maintain and further develop the internal competence of each department on the rules. I encourage all government councils to look at what can be done in each department, because this may be different, and it is different who has received comments. Nevertheless, each department has to go through its portfolio, to see how a fully concrete way of ensuring better compliance with procurement rules and, of course, to have a closer follow-up to its underlying agencies. In my department, as the representative Foss was inside, we got a scrape. I'm not happy with it, and we've done the same – we've seen actions going on. The work in my department is done after three lines. Key handlers should be trained, case handlers should be given a better guide on how to carry out procurement processes, we should have clearer internal procedures for how to proceed with public procurement, and we should actively use available tools. Of course, e-commerce tools are a brilliant way of getting both openness and transparency, and not least that things are in a system. You get it out of competition, you get the offer, and you thus ensure that it's both open and transparent, and that those who are willing to deliver the offer actually have a chance to do so. So using e-commerce tools is, of course, a brilliant way to get this into a system. In addition to work in-house, I have written letters to my subordinate departments, where I ask them to address the issue and see what they have concretely intended to do to increase compliance with the legislation. The government got in touch from Stortinget to our proposals for changes to the new law on public procurement, and I've spent the time going through them. In addition, what has been clearly stated in the promise now, already in the purpose section, is that the legislation should help to ensure that the public acts with great integrity, so that citizens have confidence that public procurement takes place in a socially sustainable way. It is in the nature of the legislation that it will have a preventive function in the face of breaking the rules and, in the worst case, corruption. That's precisely why we have to comply with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e160	Then the interpellant gets access to a comment, limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e163	I share the opinion of the Council of State that it is embarrassing to have to get such comments from the Riksrevision. I am glad that the Council of State did not use the usual technique of saying that this has happened under several governments. Because it's done, but there's no excuse for those who sit. Those who sit must at any time do what is possible to ensure that we do not still have such conditions, which in the ultimate sense can lead to corruption. I do not want to centralise purchases, but I know that there is a very close contact between, for example, the Ministry of Health and Health and the health companies about the economy. Yeah, we can read about it every day. It is usually a matter of asking for more money, but it is quite important that that contact also contains a clear message that we do not want it as we have seen in the newspapers recently – that hospital directors tell us that we have only bought as before, because there are no other suppliers. Well, you don't know that until you have announced the offer. So I'm satisfied with the follow-up of the Council of State. There's only one thing I want to point out, which I hope is a let of the tongue: she talks about that we have zero tolerance for conscious breach. No, we have to have zero tolerance for all the breaks! The typical thing is to claim that we didn't know, we couldn't, that was the way it was, and so on. Lack of knowledge of the legislation is no excuse to break the rules. I am also satisfied that it is now being followed up. I did not say that the users were dissatisfied with KOFA. On the contrary, I said that I know of the user survey, which shows that a large majority is very satisfied or satisfied, but it is pointed out that the processing time is still a problem. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of States to set a target for how long the procedure can be tolerated, because having a goal is simply quite important for the KOFA also in order to reduce the processing time. And trial time is important, because effective sanctions must not only be a threat to fines, but also, in fact, that you can get it at a time that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e176	Then state councils also get access to a note, limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e179	Yes, President, I'm not sure I need to spend 3 minutes. I am essentially in agreement with all the representative Foss said. I'm, like the representative Foss, busy that one in a dialogue with the substantiating ethers also has to address these problems, and it's of course an important requirement that one of the cabs in the department's side signals zero tolerance and actually points out that this is a leadership responsibility. One cannot say that this is the responsibility of the purchasing departments themselves. This is about ethics, about morality, and it's about the use of what the representative Foss says, the taxpayers' money. It's important. And it's important that we have confidence in the people that we spend the money in the right place, and not too much for wrong purchases or for expensive purchases because one has cut some swings. Therefore, when I've been around for several conferences in the main associations of the state, I've been talking about ethics, I've been talking about values, and I've been talking about what's going on in public practice. And I'm talking to the top leaders in the state about the same thing. My letter to the Departments highlights the same thing: it is a responsibility to ensure that legislation is followed, including the public procurement code. Here there are large values, which the representative was in, perhaps 250 billion dollars each time. That's a lot of money. What's one of the advantages of following the law and making the purchase right is that one actually, like Foss, gets cheaper deals. And what does that do? Well, it frees money for other investments and/or operations in a municipality, in a county municipality, in a hospital shelter or in the state itself. So it's perfectly obvious that we need to have a conscious attitude and a leadership focus on this part as well. Now I want to say that we should never want to get such negative notices and negative things that we've got with these gross offenses that we've had. But at least what that does is make us conscious as a result of it. I hope and believe that this has led to the fact that one of the different companies now actually sits down and goes through this. Now we have a new regulatory framework. You have to be able to do that. We've done a pretty good job trying to simplify the regulation, not to make it less topical, but simply to make compliance easier. For the old code was heavy writing, it was hard to get available, and it could in itself be a cause for breaking the rules. As legislators and regulators, we must try to avoid this by applying our language and by making it clear and easy to comply with it. But then, as I said, it has also been followed up with sanctions and infringement fees for those who are still unable to abide by the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e192	For the Workers' Party, it is important that the public act as a professional and tidy buyer following all relevant laws and regulations. For this reason, I am very pleased that the representative Per-Kristian Foss, through this interpellation, gives us the opportunity to focus on this again and debate the challenges we have in this area. The National Audit Office's report points to a number of breaches of the legislation that may actually have led to a significant misuse of tax money. The last day there was a look at the news related to breaches of procurement rules, this time in the hospital sector. And as the Council of State emphasizes in its article, this is not to be tolerated. Most people have to have confidence that public procurement is done in a socially sustainable way. It is unlikely that the ministry will lead by example. I am therefore pleased that the arrested state councils have taken to promote compliance with the legislation. The public sector is now purchasing over 270 billion dollars a year. It is therefore very important that we have a good regulatory framework that stimulates good and efficient procurement. It should not be so complicated that it becomes too difficult to follow up, nor should it be too resource-intensive or bureaucratic. As the Council of State said, there are now new rules on sanctions against public budgets that make gross violations of procurement rules. Then it becomes particularly important to the public that they do not commit serious violations of the law, because it can actually cost them dearly. Professional competence is likely to vary considerably in the public sector, and in many places more emphasis needs to be placed on competence measures in-house. It is important, then, that those who are on this competence be connected in the procurement cases. I think that in many public etats, e.g. in municipalities, more cooperation is needed across sectors or disciplines to ensure better compliance with the procurement rules. The evaluation report on KOFA shows that the municipal sector is overrepresented in relation to the number of complainants they handle, and the number of breaches of the legislation. The measures taken by the Council of State to implement it in its department as a direct follow-up to the Riksrevision report may well be followed up by others. I think you should consider strengthening the advisory services offered to public purchasers. Both the Departments and the KS make a great effort in this area. by compiling guides in the Code. But there may also be other advisory services that need to be evaluated. Professional buyers will be good both for each public enterprise, for business and for society otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e205	We in the Progress Party are also very pleased that the representative Per-Kristian Foss takes this up in the interpellation, so that we get the opportunity to focus on a very important matter that, as it has been pointed out here, can also mean significantly saved statesmen, public, means that one is well needed around Norway. This might be viewed here as a state matter. But I want to point out that it's probably so important to focus on what's going on in the county councils and municipalities, i.e. in the public system around the country. It is bad to experience through newspapers, radio and television at several times to get served revelations made on the basis of illegal purchases in the public system. It's amazing that one has not built security measures around the public system that could capture this at a much earlier time. What happens proves that it's not the case. That would be of great benefit to the condemnation of the public system, and not least could it be and help to avoid personal tragedy for those who are tempted to commit such illegal acts. Because it often turns out in retrospect that there is a lot more than exactly the person who has done this, who notices the effects of these revelations. So here the Council of State has a very great responsibility, to make sure that the public system learns how to do it in order to develop their own security measures that reveal such things at an early stage. I know Heidi Grande Røys so well that I think she thinks she's saying, and it's exciting to see if we're now avoiding a similar case at the next level. I am glad that Per-Kristian Foss also points out that there must be zero tolerance not only by deliberate actions, but also by others, because it is often used as an argument that we do not know this – very often it is entirely conscious of what they have done. I also thought it was broken to use as an example what has happened in my own country, where we listened on the local radio two days ago about an inter-municipal renovation company in Nordfjord. The municipality owns this company 100 pst. In the board of this company, several former spokesmen and current spokesmen, daily leaders and the Christian People's Party are their group leaders in the county, so that there are experienced politicians as they are in this inter-communal renovation company. The board of directors created a limited liability company, used paid renovation fees and paid in the share capital, which they are not allowed to do, and what has happened then is that this inter-communal renovation company has provided the transport of waste to its own company, and it does not send it out on demand. The most critical thing here is that this company is in a monopoly position, where they have a monopoly on transporting waste and collecting waste from their subscribers. So the subscribers have no possibility of going to other competing companies, so here you can set the price of the renovation fees as you like. When one then also knows that the vice-leader of this intercommunal company is a member of the supervisory board of Sogn and Fjordane County, it starts to be a little difficult for them to explain what has happened here. What's used as an excuse for not sending it on offer is that you didn't have time for it. That's what I'm asking the Council of State to look at, and it's interesting to the right council's view of that very thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e216	I'm from Rome, so there's a couple-three things that I partially recognized in the description here. The state's violation of this legislation creates some internal signals, but not least externally in relation to municipalities and county municipalities. In the municipal sector, like the previous speakers, we have seen how much slurry there is in, for example, documentation, notariness, in relation to what happens in an acquisition process. Knowledge of the legislation is definitely not entirely at the height. It may not be possible in a small municipality that is not as attractive to the more lurid candidates as I am to work there to ensure that the legislation is understood and complied with, and it is often combined with the drop in the roller coaster among responsible politicians, both in this room and in the municipality, when discussing control issues, because it is not as visionary and interesting as budgeting. Then there is not enough political pressure to establish good enough control regimes in the municipalities, in the county municipalities, nor in the state. What is dangerous is that cultures are created for that to happen, and that in the long term there can also be room for more dishonest people than both county rapporteurs and rapporteurs to see their cut to get quick money in a room that opens up for it. In fact, in relation to the imagery that these organised criminal environments carry out on a broad scale, there is no fever fantasy to fear that they will seek out the money-laundering machines where internal control is weakest. So increased knowledge is necessary by the state, but not least by the municipality – as it has previously been the focus of the municipal minister. As the representative Foss said in his introduction, the main conclusion is that the users are completely satisfied with KOFA, but the processing time is what they are dissatisfied with. On the website of the company, it is stated that the duration of proceedings is ‘up to one year’ and ‘cases in which contracts have been concluded or the contracting entity will not wait for the conclusion of the contract to be reduced’. I feel that there is a greater degree of frustration in business than what was said by the Council of State here today. For example, you are asking the Consulting Engineers' Association to ensure that the Government has the time to deal with the matter or, if necessary, to shut down the whole body, because it is not a good idea to have a body that is taken seriously when they have time to look at the matter, but if they do not have time to look at the matter, it is also particularly attractive to send a complaint there. There is, of course, a clear order for the revised national budget, and we choose, on the basis of the positive signals of the Council of State, to interpret it there, that at least additional appropriations will be assessed when you arrive in a few months’ time. 78 pst. in a poll conducted in the evening post last year, they considered that corruption occurs in some or to a large extent in the public sector in Norway, and only every 10 Norwegians have confidence in the authorities’ ability to detect corruption. I think that is serious, because that distrust has the power to undermine democracy from within, about the same way that terrorism creates fear and doubt as to whether democracy is going to go back. It is in that perspective that we have to read this interpellation today and try to combat this type of regulatory breach that can develop into something much more serious later. As has been said, transparency, transparency and not least good alert procedures are also important. The new disclosure law that we adopted last year could be a new tool in the fight against regulatory violations and corruption. It happens that even if you break the rules internally and you don’t think anyone will notice it, it’s quite fun – sometimes at least – that the media discovers it and can discover it. Then there are some fire-souls -- some will call them nerds, I call them fire-souls -- who work to reveal what you can see of negative culture in the public sector. However, there is a need to further extend the scope of that law to other legal objects that carry out health, care and nutrition services, because there is an extreme amount of money that is not subject to official control in a similar way to that of other sectors today. I hope that the Government will be willing to assess that gradually, as well as the increased ability to exercise corporate control in the municipalities. The most important thing about this interpellation debate is that, when the chance arises, not only in the control committee, but in all committees in this house, we also use the opportunity to see if it is such that the state is leading by a good example in terms of enforcing the law as it is and as it is understood. I don't think so. In any case, this is the beginning of something that I hope can be positive in order to create the change of attitude that is absolutely necessary, both state and local, in order to deal with regulatory violations, whether they are conscious or unconscious. It is very easy to get clarification from both the Council of State and other speakers that legal error does not exempt from punishment, nor does alcoholism. But that's what others have done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e237	This is a very important matter, as the interpellant and the Council of State say. I am very pleased with the Government's response, which makes it very clear that you have a firm grip on it. You set up rules that everyone needs to know about. There are procedures to control and sanction, and there is a deliberate policy to show that one understands the need to equip the apparatus to handle this legislation. It's incredibly important, because often it can be the amateurs' meeting with the professionals. That is why it will also be a political – perhaps difficult – exercise in the country, municipality and state to ensure that we have the resources to do this. There is not necessarily a requirement for people to man out in these areas, which are not popular, but where it is absolutely necessary to have that competence in place, so that it becomes correct, and that we prevent the breaks and the negative consequences that have been pointed out by others, both in terms of corruption and other types of default. Notification was also mentioned by the representative Octay Dahl as an important piece of this. I want to use most of my speaking time to talk about something that no one has mentioned today. It is the new rules that come into force from 1 January, which concern that our procurement rules should also take such into account that we do not continue to buy as much discrimination as we have now. The representative Foss says we're trading for 260 billion kroner per year. years, and a lot of this is used to buy things, buildings, facilities, IT – a lot of different things – that are not useful to the whole population. We have had a planning and building law for many years that has said that construction should be built in such a way that the buildings are available, but unfortunately this has not happened. In many places, there is enough culture to make it okay for this to go wrong. I would like to challenge the Council of State to respond to whether the control and penalty options that are now in the law are also ready to be used in relation to these provisions, which is that what we are going to buy now, is useful to everyone. The recent example of a horror is, for example: The flight, which has now purchased new vehicles again, which prove not to be available to people with reduced mobility. That's how you can keep going in the ether after the ether. I believe that the awareness campaign that needs to be carried out in this important area must be as heavy as what is now being done in the other parts of the legislation, which is also important. But this is about using one's market power as a public buyer to provide a society that can be used on an equal footing by all. It's incredibly important. It is incredibly important in the state, and it is incredibly important in the public sector. It is also very important in the private sector to think about how to use their large purchasing power. There's a lot of money we're talking about right now, which we're putting into such a market, but it costs so much for the public when such things don't come into place. So I am very pleased that this government has taken the first steps to ensure that also the state does not continue to buy discrimination through its purchasing policy. I'm a little bit more in doubt if we're strong enough, and if we have sanctions in place that make this functional. I'm going to repeat what I said in the interpellation on Tuesday: I think we have to act the way you did when you built with illegal tropical rainforest trees. Then you were told to tear it down. You're not allowed to tear it down. This is also the case when someone buys something that is not available and useful to everyone. They must be told to buy again. It's going to be expensive, but we know that – to say it in English –'money talk'. A lot of people get it. It must cost to break the procurement law in these other areas, but it must cost and sweat just as much to break the legislation in those areas that keep us building society in such a way that not all people in this country are equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e248	The representative Per-Kristian Foss takes up critical points in the interpellation with the financial management of departments and underlying departments that the Riksrevision has included in its annual report to the Stortinget. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee will normally examine this report in our report and give its opinion on the Stortinget. This and the other findings of the National Audit Office’s administrative review will then be commented on. This concerns the criticism of compliance with the public procurement legislation in several different supervisory and underlying bodies, but equally the criticism raised regarding the lack of use of budgetary resources or the achievement of results in important areas such as child protection, re-introduction, child and youth psychiatry and drug treatment. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would like to stress that all the points that the Riksrevision addresses in its Annual Document No. 1, must be taken seriously by departments and landfills. It is particularly serious if the Riksaudition makes significant observations over several years without any necessary improvements to procedures in the departments concerned. The interpellant raises the question of what action the Minister for Renewal will take on the departments concerned in order to ensure that the tender rules are followed for the future. There is likely to be broad consensus both in the government apparatus and in the magnificence that the main responsibility for improving weaknesses pointed out by the Riksrevision lies in the departments concerned, with the head of each department – which is still the Council of State – as the accountable manager. I therefore want to be careful about imposing a special responsibility on the Minister of Renewal and Administration as regards the follow-up to the financial management of each department. When a theme is taken up by the National Audit Office throughout several departments, as in this case, it must also be allowed to count on the Prime Minister's office to provide an adequate overall searchlight for improvements throughout the government apparatus. However, the Minister of Renewal and Administration has, as it is known, a direct responsibility for the public procurement legislation, including the ability to make recommendations on how to follow up the legislation. When the National Audit Office refers to breaches of the public procurement law, it means that the requirements for the execution of tendering procedures for purchases above NOK 500000 have not been complied with. Here, in the view of the Christian People's Party, the answer must not be to raise the threshold further, but rather to assess whether there are further simplification possibilities or possibilities to improve user guidance – as the minister has also stated that she has made an effort to get in place. After all, we are talking about large state agencies that you should expect to have both the competence and the resources to carry out and monitor larger purchases under a sensible regulatory framework. There may be a little on the side of the main theme of the interpellation, but the issue of transparency in purchasing processes is related to the issue of compliance with legislation. As you know, the Minister for Renewal and Administration has not wanted to proceed with a central arrangement for the simplified publication of all public procurements which are slightly lower than the threshold of 500000 kroner. On the basis of the Court of Auditors’ observations, it should be appropriate to consider at least a central arrangement for the publication of purchases below the central government threshold. The regulatory framework for breaking up a large tender in smaller tenders, adapted to the threshold, is one of several complex elements of the overall regulatory framework. A clearer disclosure requirement even prior to purchasing processes below the threshold would help to make such adaptations less interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e265	The question raised by the representative Foss is not new, but a repetition that has been presented for years in Document No. 1, without any apparent improvements being made. State councils after state councils have said that they take the criticism seriously, and have promised to do something about it. And then nothing happens. Is it speculated in a limitless patience on the part of Stortinget, or has it simply become used to the fact that there is no active parliamentary follow-up and that there are no consequences for anyone that the criticisms of the Stortinget and the Riksrevision are not being followed? My point is that the lack of follow-up by the Department must have consequences for some, and that one should no longer be able to discharge its responsibilities. It is necessary to incorporate procedures in the department where the individual manager is much more accountable. This was something the Council of State explained to us today, and we are excited about the follow-up to it. This should be a topic suitable for discussions and seminars in government offices. It is my strong wish and that of the Progress Party that we should deal with Document No in a year's time. 1 shall be released from the need to point out again any manifest breach of the rules on tenders, the principle of competition, non-discrimination and reprobability. I would also like to respond to information about what the department has done to follow up the clear signals that have arrived today. Failure to comply can clearly lead to misuse of public funds. The fact that the public has to pay more than is necessary for goods and services because not all tendering rules have been followed is very regrettable. It is a clear waste of public money, and it is taxpayers who have to pay the bill – as several representatives have also mentioned today. In fact, it may also distort competition when there is no equal playing field for all present tenderers and companies. There is also a danger of mismanagement, such as: that the parties involved may see themselves profited from sharing the profits contained therein. And then we're talking about corruption. The corruption scandals that we see today in several municipalities around the country, I think, are just the top of the iceberg. People in Norway are suspicious, and in my opinion they should be suspicious, and alert – which has also been mentioned. In Akershus, Romerike, where I come from, we have seen some ghastly examples of not complying with the legislation in all areas and its consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e282	I agree with the representative Karin Andersen that there is also a need for an awareness campaign on availability, on acquisitions. There are questions about what to write in the tender. I am still shocked that in Norway, to say the least, communication means are being acquired where you have to make it clear that there are problems to get in – and there are completely new things. It's an example of an unculture that can't go on. But that's probably an example of the fact that, within certain departments, especially on the technical side, you're more concerned with technique than with ease of use, because you get so absorbed and engrossed in the possibilities of the new technique. The fact that there should simply be the same height of the means of communication as on the platform should be solvable. The state must go ahead as a good example. I agree that the municipalities are unfortunately overrepresented in violation of the procurement rules, but the state is more professional, because the state is larger and in good and bad more centralised. So the state has to go ahead with a good example. And if, as politicians, we are to be able to run municipalities and county municipalities, we must be able to say that in the state we are better. The Ministry of Renewal shall have a coordinating role in such cases. I am aware that there is no supranational council among the state councils, but if I were to give a good advice – to take the quote from Andersen’s representative: ‘money talk’ – then it must be remembered to the Council of State that soon comes both the first and the second budgetary conference. If you can save money in your own department by getting more out of the money – that's what it's about – so that they can be used in other good areas, or in their own area, where there will always be something missing, yes, there's now the opportunity to do something about it. It's not there at three weeks' notice, but it's there now, early in the year. And then I'll finally challenge the Council of States to set a goal and now tell Stortinget what should be acceptable process time, and how far down one can manage to cut the number of residues in KOFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e293	I have spent my time in the debate reviewing the changes the Government proposed to Stortinget in connection with a new law on public procurement, and to which we had broad support in Stortinget. I think that by doing so, we have given the purchasers of the municipalities, county councils, health professionals and the state a good tool – I'm not sure if we can use the word «tool» anymore – to stay within the law. And that's the most important thing. That's what we're going to do. We're going to contribute laws and rules that are easy to follow, and that reduce the room of awareness and doubt about what's right, and what's wrong. In addition, we have imposed sanctions, as I say, if there are serious violations of the rules of publication. In addition, we now publish a lot more, which I was in the middle of. Protocols must be outsourced, such as: mailing lists. Anyone – media, citizens and other suppliers – will thus gain much more insight into what is actually going on in purchasing. And so here, anyone can complain about this to KOFA. In the case of KOFA, KOFA has seen for itself a measure of both how much time they should have had and how long they should have been treated normally. I shall consider following up on the Foss challenge and present the Stortinget to that end. I didn't find it right to do it per. Now, as a person has just started getting his leftovers down. If we're going to announce a goal first, we're going to have to be able to achieve that goal. The most important thing for me is that after the review with KOFA in Bergen, I got very clear promises, and I have very much faith that one is on the right path and will bring down the remains, so that complaining is experienced as a real process, and that the answer does not come after both winter and spring. Elles was the representative of Starheim on a concrete event from Nordfjord, which concerned intercommunal companies. The representative Ib Thomsen and others were in the same situation, that there is a part in the municipal sector. Now I don't have any responsibility for it, but what I use to say is that the local government is not too willing to discuss what the local authority actually provides reports. In these reports, it's very interesting. Some of us may be nerdy when we in the local government have seen it has been interesting to discuss audit reports, but I have always kept posts, because I think it's interesting: what do we spend the taxpayers' money and the community's money for, and does it happen in the right way? In any case, I would say that such a discussion as the Stortinget has had today, and as we are going to have several times, local government representatives around the country should also take the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e304	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-18.ana.ud1844e315	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure? - The meeting has been cancelled.
