ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e67	A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Anne Marit Bjørnflaten on leave from 19 October to 16 November from the representatives of Jorod Asphjell, André Oktay Dahl, Inge Ryan, Henning Skumsvoll and Bjørg Tørersdal on leave from 22 October to 16 November, all to attend the 62nd ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, in New York On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder County: Kjell Ivar LarsenFor Akershus County: Cathrin BretzegFor Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid SvendsenFor Troms County: Knut Werner HansenFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Ellen SamuelsenFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Knut Gravrök3. Knut Gravräk is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of Jorod Asphjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e136	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 199]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e152	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 215]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e168	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 215]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e184	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 216]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e200	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 216]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e220	It's supposed to be the following statement from our history: "Now it's time to shut up." Prime Minister Michelsen said this to Bjørnson in 1905. He thought it was fun to clean tactically. Many suggest that it may actually be fun to shut up in 2007, at least for employees. If you find out something critical the public should know, it can have greater consequences to say from even not doing it. This applies both in the private and in the public sector. I'm not saying it this way because I want it to be this way, I'm saying it this way to point to a problem that has arisen after we've been tightened up in a good and correct way. But then in the public space we got the story of alerts. We've got people who have actually said it in a deserving way and received support, got it right, and someone who says that I knew everything, I might not have done it. The issue is clear and widely accepted: that we should ensure that critical conditions in the workplace are revealed and counteract closed corporate cultures from which workers do not dare to say so. The active substance is contained in legal provisions. But what I'm travelling today with my interpellation is how alerts can also be ensured greater support, greater protection, in retrospect. It cannot be that possible alerts fear the social responses more than the legal consequences. The challenge is in the social space that many view warning as disloyalty, and that many alerts receive a stamp that is unfair and difficult. In Norway, we have, and I think we should be proud of, a culture in which loyalty is highly esteemed. But in this issue, loyalty is put so high that it goes beyond freedom of expression, right of expression and the high-ranking thing that I'm going to believe everyone in this room is agreed on, that is, to tell you about something that is critical. Very early in my life as a social worker I learned to know what the sociology is called corps spirit. That means that you know that something is wrong, but because everyone knows that something is wrong, you have an unspoken, and sometimes pronounced, common interest in not saying anything about it, because it gets so hard to say anything about it. I even met such a case almost 30 years ago in connection with what was called Kläbu pleiehjem – Halsetheimen – in the South Trondelag, i.e. the then care institution for the mentally ill. We had a lot of stories about it. We had many stories about what is today the Broset in Trondheim, what was then called Reiterde – a lot of stories. In all these stories, finally, someone is coming out, and then they're talking about it. In a lot of these stories, when something first happens, someone is being drawn to responsibility that's basically on the brink of everything. I'll take it with me. In our situation, we now have a broader culture. In general, we have been given Eva Joly's conscious assignment on behalf of the Norwegian authorities, both the previous government and the current government, to say from and create a culture to say from, and we have received debates in this room on important legal provisions. As we are here today, we know that we were given such provisions on 1 December 2006, which came into force on 1 January 2007. When this matter was up, my party, Left, said that it should be right to notify anonymously, and we wanted to introduce a legal provision that the employer cannot initially initiate measures to bring about the cleanness of who is behind a warning. Now it wasn't adopted, and my main point is not to be near saying, "What do you say?" That's not my point. My point is simply to try to take the whole big one, the big hall and the state council on a round to see what we can do better. As far as practice is concerned, the Left Party has been contacted by several people who have notified of critical conditions at the workplace. What these warnings can tell you is that life became more difficult, or difficult, after they told me if what they thought was wrong in the workplace. In 2005, Fafo published a survey on workers who have notified critical conditions at work. The investigation showed that the vast majority of the cases experienced penalties in retrospect. Among 17 people in the care sector, 15 had notified internally and externally about critical issues. All 15 experienced penalties in retrospect, such as social exclusion, job loss and degradation. At the same time, the warning had positive effects on the workplace. In another study done at the University of Bergen, it turned out that a lot of people who had experienced bullying at the workplace reported that it came after the employee had told us about critical circumstances. In a study by the Opinion Institute, only 6 pst responded. by municipal staff that they would consider going to the press if they discovered critical circumstances. Let me give you some examples: I have been contacted by Olav Hellum, who has chosen to stand out publicly. He warned of illegal forced use and serious circumstances in the health sector in 1990 and 1991. In 1992, he was relocated to a completely different position. Hellum looked at the relocation as a return, and finally went to the case to keep the job. Hellum lost in court. Hellum then wrote – not just as an alert, but as a time witness – an article about his history in the Contemporary Times in 2006. It was on the basis of his history that I asked the investigation department here at Stortinget to explain whether the legal position of alerts when they were in the case of retaliation had improved since the new alert paragraphs came into force. Now the investigation section says that they are not initially commenting on individual matters, but that they have looked at the matter by giving a description of the general legislation. The Research Section of the Stortinget points out that there still has to be a causal link between the opinion and the repudiation in order for the act to be illegal under the Working Environment Act. If the employer argues that the action has nothing to do with the warning itself, but for example: an unsustainable working environment, the alert will be weak, even if the rules of evidence have now been reversed. So the investigation section says it would be nice to have done something about this legal thing, but it's demanding jus. That's where I don't want to let go of the matter, because either we have to test how far demanding jus can be stretched, or we have to test what we can do with other tools that complement the jus. And it's in a number of areas of society that we think about such instruments. Another person who has stood out publicly is Per Inge Monsen, who announced financial irregularities in Siemens, and was terminated. He won a crushing victory over Siemens in the District Court. The Court found it probable that Siemens systematically paid too well on the defence. The court ruled that the dismissal of Per Inge Monsen was incalculable, and that he had reacted to what he had discovered, in a reasonable way. The story of Kari Breirem is also known. She told me how the warning of irregularities in the law firm BA-HR resulted in bullying, harassment and accusations of professional inadequacy before she was finally dismissed. She stresses that the statutory alarm protection is not good enough. I also have a case, which I use anonymously, from a person who has been notified of systematic abuse, human rights violations and misconduct in the health sector – I have been allowed to use her case. This person has experienced adversity at all stages after she has been notified of an assault at the workplace. She has told me that she feels innocent. I choose to use these examples to go up and say, what can we do? First, I would like to say as a Norwegian citizen and a wholesaler that I admit that I am a little ashamed when I read these matters. It should not be the case that alerts should feel innocent, and I fear that lack of protection leads to people not being able to take the burden of notifying of illegal or unethical matters in a business. The whole point of warning rules is that we want more alerts. It won't be if those who warn feel innocent. Now it is also the case that alerts are problematic, and we probably cannot rule out that some of those who alert are actually ‘difficult’ workers. But when the message is so unison from so many alerts, I choose to believe that there is something very fundamental and important in what these people say. It's unfortunate when those who choose not to alert come out luckier than those who actually dare to say about something that's unpleasant. In some countries, rules have been established whereby alerts are rewarded with a percentage of the fine that the employer may be sentenced to pay. I'm not addressing such a proposal – I'm just pointing out that you choose different approaches. I have said earlier in this post that I am not sure that the legislation can solve this, but I have the idea that politics is about to get to grips with things that are difficult. I would hope that we could fine-looking the juice to see if there was anything that could at least counteract penalties afterwards, even if we still want to have a beauty area. Going into this would at least be giving a signal to those who are exposed to something, that society is stretching as far as possible. I'm also looking through this interpellation to raise a deliberate public debate, because the public word change to the seventh and last is something that can provide coverage and protection for people, even if it's never such that someone else can take away from you the incurable loneliness you must have when you're in a very vulnerable situation. No one can do that, but at least you can feel some warmth from the community around you by doing it, from society in general and from everyone with the rules. I open the interpellation because I feel that this is difficult, but I also feel that what is happening now is unworthy and wrong. I have chosen to use these words and say on behalf of myself as a Norwegian citizen and a big representative: I am ashamed when I see that we have a situation where people who do something right come out in such difficult situations as what I have addressed in this interview. I choose to do this, as I have often done in this room as a representative, in the open form, because there are some moments in Norwegian policy where we don't argue about who was best yesterday – or today – but actually try to do something better for all people who are trying to take care of basic social values. It is in this spirit that I invite and hope to have a good debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e264	Let me start by saying that I agree that this is a very important interpellation, and that it is a very important debate. I appreciate having received this interpellation, because I fully agree with the representative Dørum that the situation of alerts is something that should be taken up by us. When we take this seriously and discuss it in this room, we get attention on the theme ‘The situation of alerts’. We get information about how we view this, and how the law considers it. I also think this is an expression of impatience – we will not find ourselves in the fact that alerts feel that going forward with the warning is not going to live with in retrospect. So the challenge is that the representative Dørum referred to concrete examples several times in his post, but the reality is, as far as I know, that no new issues have been tried by the law that has now come into force. All the examples that Dørum referred to were the inspiration we had when we passed the new law. So we haven't yet tried whether the changes we made and implemented from 1 January actually give better protection to alerts who experience any retaliation. I appreciate the impatience, while also taking this opportunity to stress that one of the most important things we did when we adopted the new legal provisions was to ensure a ban on retaliation. This means that the employer does not have the opportunity to punish the alert, or the person who gives the impression that the right to alert will be exercised, for example by: to relieve the alert from work, to freeze the alert or to perform other types of negative reactions. There is no doubt that repositioning is also covered by the resettlement ban. The interpellant refers to redeployment of the employee as an existing employer can do within the board even if the employee is a warning. Here I would like to point out that when Stortingen gives laws that limit the employer's working space, the employer's right of governance will be limited accordingly. In this context, if a redeployment occurs as a result of an employee’s exercise of the right of alert, the redeployment will be per. the definition does not fall within the scope of the governing law, because the disposition is precisely contrary to the prohibition of reproducibility in the Working Environment Act § 2-5. An act that is contrary to the law will never be within the rule of law. There are therefore no situations in which the employer acts which are at the same time illegal retaliation and in the area of governance. In practice, of course, the employer may claim that the repositioning has nothing to do with the warning, but only an existing employer is acting under its own right of governance. Here, the special rules on the burden of proof are of great importance. The rules on burden of proof mean that if the employee provides information which gives reason to believe that an act is illegal, the burden of proof is passed on to the employer. The legislative proposal specifies that no strict requirements should be imposed on workers in this context, for example: it shall normally be sufficient to indicate that it has actually been notified and that a negative action has come close to the alert in time. In order to be free, the employer must, in the event that there is a restitution, be sure that it has not actually taken place. This implies that the employer must provide evidence that, for example: a redeployment of a warning has nothing to do with the prior warning. So you have to ask yourself, would the repositioning happen if the employee had not notified? I think the answer will often appear to be relatively obvious. A relevant theme in this context will typically be whether there are several that have been relocated at the same time, for example: as a result of a reorganisation, or whether only the one person has been subject to changes in employment. As I see it, it would not be appropriate to remove the claim for a cause and effect relationship between alert and retaliation. If there has been no warning situation, it is natural that the retaliation prohibition in Section 2-5 will not apply. The extent to which an employer is entitled to redeploy workers who are not alerts is not regulated by the warning provisions but by the other labour law. The interpellant also mentions social exclusion as a reprisal that may occur after warning. If an employee is frozen because he/she has been notified, this will be considered as a reflection in the sense of the Working Environment Act and thus be protected by the alert protection. There is another reason to emphasise that in all cases the Labour Environment Act prohibits harassment or other improper behaviour. This includes all forms of bullying and harassment, whether it is freezing or more malicious plagiarism, whether it is an employer or for the rest of the workers behind it. It is the responsibility of the employer to ensure that bullying and harassment of workers does not take place, whether or not they are alerts. Bullying and harassment in the workplace are never good and never legal, regardless of the situation. Neither if a notification has been made irresponsibly, bullying and harassment will be acceptable or lawful. Workers who experience this type of harmful and illegal health and safety at work may contact the Labour Inspectorate for any assistance. The Labour Inspectorate enforces the provisions of the Labour Environment Act on the psychosocial work environment and will be able to intervene in the case. I would also like to mention that the Labour Inspectorate, together with the Department, has provided a guide for the audience on the new warning provisions, which describe the rules and how these should be interpreted and applied. If it were to be a widespread misconception that the right to control could override the legal protection of alerts, it could be useful to describe this issue even more clearly in the guidance. In the light of what I have said, at least I cannot now see the need to amend the new legal provisions to protect alerts against movement, social exclusion or other types of represals. I believe that we have put in place a good code for the protection of alerts, where, in particular, the ban on retaliation and the burden of proof have significantly strengthened the situation of alerts. So the legal provisions on alerts came into force as late as 1 January of this year. I believe that there is reason to make the legislation work for a time before we make an assessment of whether the provisions work as we wish, or whether the law should be amended if necessary. Let me add that we will never succeed in this field without the law helping to establish a culture of transparency, the law helps Norwegian leaders to understand that transparency and alerting are good for the business. It's building up the culture that will be very demanding, and I agree with the interpellant that this seems like we're going two steps forward and one back. Then, of course, as a legislative assembly, we have to be concerned that if the leaders don't realize that openness is for the good, those who warn must be protected. I believe that the law we now have gives alerts a good protection against retaliation. So we might see that some leaders out there are trying to reciprocate anyway. In this way, we must have those cases tried before the courts or before a dispute resolution body. I feel very confident that if this type of reaction form, such as. repositioning as a response to an alert is brought before a court, the alert with today's legislation will have a very strong position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e292	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. The example I used, which is a time witness in my day, was tried by old law. But I have – without going into the person – also asked legal competence here at Stortinget whether the debt protection is better under new legislation than it was for him who lost. So I get the answer that there still has to be a causal link between the statement and the debt in order for it to be illegal. If the employer argues that the action has nothing to do with the warning itself, but that it does, for example: has become an unsustainable working environment as a result of what you have actually said – what I described as a challenge to the body spirit – the alert will be weak even if the rule of proof is reversed. Once I've addressed it this way, it's not to be contentious, but it's just to say that in a competent environment, someone has assessed the kind of logic that lies in the matter – a matter where you didn't win after an old system – up against the new regulation. Then the Council of State and I agree that we have made a better regulation. We agree on the basics of it. When I take this up, it's just for the Great Council to announce that the world can be more difficult than we thought when we made a rule of law. That's the background for me doing what I'm doing. So we can say that here we are faced with different kinds of legal assessments. So the Storting has an expertise that I, as a representative, am pleased that I can use in 2007. I didn't have access to it in 1980 – the last time I tried – when you thought it was a strange thought. But now you have the kind of competence that allows me to stand up to something. We know that lawyers can judge things differently. And there's no other point in it than that even though we've done something that someone might think is good, there's always something left unanswered. So what I really want to ask the government council to do is take this separately and see if there's anything the state can do. This specific alert case occurred in psychiatry, in a health company. Is there any country that large employers can do to ensure that the guidelines passed by the Council of State are so good that it sets a good tone in itself? I do not believe that the state should repeal legal rules, but that something should be done with the very culture of which the Council of State has just spoken so clearly, for precisely as the Council of State, constitutionally responsible, but also as the Council of State and the head of large businesses, one might be able to provide it with guidance. At least I would urge the Council of States to put it on the agenda, as I say: not that the law should not apply, but that the law should be complied with, and that culture – and the thinking that we have in our head – show respect for these dilemmas. At least I'm taking it with me as a challenge to the Council of State. Then I'll probably choose to pursue these issues in my own way, because I think that political life is about not having troublesome things to rest as long as there is something that makes it bothersome for people who are in a different situation than we do who have this pulpit at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e305	We're not going to go into any legal heated discussions from the pulpit. I just want to say that I think the law is relatively clear. I think that the Grandningscommittee did a good job when it wrote the vote on the law, and there was a good debate here in the hall. It is these three relationships that should form the basis for understanding the law. I would strongly warn against trying to establish a case-law elsewhere than where case-law is to be established, namely in the Court of Justice, and the fact is that so far no case-law has been tried. I just want to underline what I tried to say with many more words in my main post. If a person has been notified and is subsequently relocated, and the employer claims that it has nothing to do with the warning, but is part of a work environment problem, then, according to this law, the burden of proof for the employer will be borne by the employer. Then the employer must be able to prove that the repositioning that takes place has nothing to do with the warning, but has to do with completely different circumstances. I find it a little difficult to imagine what else the content of the law would be like, that we should ensure that the alert is protected in such a way that the employer should provide evidence of the difference between the warning and what is happening if action is taken against him in retrospect. I also think it would be demanding to adopt a law that would say that if you have once notified, you will from then on and forever work on exactly what you have worked with before you notified, and in the exact same place as you worked before you notified. It would also be a rather demanding law to adopt. I believe that the law we have passed gives the alert a strengthened legal situation. I also think we should, if necessary, leave it up to the judicial system and not to the Investigation Department of Storting to assess whether it is strengthened or not. Finally, I believe that the representative Dørum is on a very good track. I share his point of view when he says that now, as employers around the world, we need to make it visible that this is about building transparency cultures, making employers understand that it is loyal to have employees telling us about critical circumstances, and creating cultures for internal warning. The new law is going to make us actually get fewer alerts out there because we get good systems and good practices to deal with criticism and alerting internally in companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e316	I think it is very commendable that the representative of Dørum addresses this matter in an interview, and that we get this debate. I feel that the law, as we have decided, and as it applies per. Today, is good. We have no case-law that can reveal the weaknesses of it, but in terms of retaliation against alerts, we have been politically clear about what our intention is to do with the law. And it is clear that if it turns out that the case law is evolving in a direction that is not in line with what we as legislators wanted, I think we should go in and look at the matter. We could say it so that we make promises based on two considerations. One is to say that something is forbidden and unwanted – something we will not do. Secondly, laws will ensure management, what society will do, if it does not. I think the Council of State was about something that's very important if we think about what we're doing to prevent things from happening. We have also said in this law that it should help to alert companies. We're going to break with the body spirit to which the representative Dørum refers, and which I think is at the heart of social exclusion, and perhaps the most important thing we do about structural changes in working life is that we demand companies to make good practice of warning. I would like to highlight the contribution of Health Bergen in this context. They have established their own alert in the company. It is a large and lacking company, a company that has also been plagued with internal conflicts and a lot of noise after warning. Obviously, both the legislator's signals and the lessons of what has happened have been taken into account here, and then a notification agent has been created. I think it'll be a solution that can be used in many other places. In smaller businesses, this will be difficult. It is a problem for one with my background, which in very many cases points out that the function of the protection agents is incredibly important. We also want to strengthen the position of protection ombudsmen in working life by means of the Working Environment Act. But it is simply not to hide that even in a number of matters that can go on as kind of a warning case, the Protection Ombudsman is actually also part of the establishment that the alert will be afraid of giving represals. It is then important that good procedures are in place in the company to handle alerts and to ensure that alerts are displayed. Bullying's never good. I think the state thread was crystal clear on it and pointed to the legal rules we have against bullying. I think we have to assume that it will always be a burden to notify about negative conditions in a company. At some level there will be a load for those who choose to take the step, do it. This is the case with the vast majority of things in society. But what is so important is that we get this debate and establish the attitude in society that it is important to facilitate alerting, and that it is important to keep alerts. We need to be clear that suppressing the warning is also a very expensive exercise for our working life – if we were to do so. So I would like to say once again that I welcome this debate. I believe, as the representative, Mr Dørum, that this is something we should be constantly discussing. And, as I said, I believe that if it turns out against the assumption that a case-law is established that is not in line with what we have a cross-political desire to establish as a case-law, we should look at the law again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e333	Let me first say that I think it is commendable that the representative Dørum addresses this question. There is also a question that is constantly being discussed in companies, as well as in the media. It is also interesting to note that the major corruption scandals that are most often revealed by company alerts. This means that there are people who dare to stand up, who dare to take the load, who in turn bring forward major, important issues and are exposed to critical conditions in some companies and businesses, including in the public sector. There is still a situation that many people feel is a lot of stress – it often gets a lot of follow-up when they go out and alerts. There is enough uncertainty and fear of drying to take the step and go and warn that characterizes a lot. When the law was discussed in November 2006, we had a thorough debate in Stortinget on how this should be done. When the Council of State of this pulpit says that he has difficulty seeing how the law could have been designed differently, he must have completely ignored the argument and proposals that came from an overall opposition when we dealt with Ot.prp. No 84 from 2005 to 2006 on 16 November 2006. There we showed, among other things: to the comments that Professor Jakhelln made, and as I think it is still important to include in the interpretation of the law on how to design and understand the law. I also record that the government parties in 2005 had a more liberal approach, attitude, how to get the law to work and what it should be like, than what you had when you came into power and took over the government offices and presented the matter yourself. I think that's disappointing. I think the government parties should have stood for what was said in opposition. In that case, I think we could have gotten a total amount of money behind the law when we dealt with it in 2006. What's most important, and I think we all agree, is that no alerts should feel uncomfortable to alert. It is important, as the representative Henriksen also pointed out, that everyone should feel secure when alerting about critical matters. It can't be like that, either in public or in private, that you have to feel fear and thus refrain from telling me about critical circumstances. I hope that at regular intervals we can still have the kind of debates that we have today. Then it's quite true, as the Council of State says, that the new law has not yet been tried before any court, but it will probably sooner or later arise a situation where the law is also being tried before the court. And if it turns out that it is not good enough to protect the alerts, I hope at least that we will get the matter back to Stortinget quite quickly, so that we can review and review the amendment of the law, and then get the opportunity to possibly change the law, as the opposition also pointed out when we dealt with the matter in November 2006. I am still of the definite opinion that the law is not sufficient to protect the alerts. I believe that the law we have today will lead to some not notifying – I hope I am wrong. I think there are still some people who will do that, and I hope that for the future we can get a law that is more adapted to safeguard the protection of the alerts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e350	First of all, I will give tribute to the representative of Dørum for having traveled this interpellation. It's an important interpellation, which addresses a very important topic. I think it has a self-esteem that the country's National Assembly is discussing this issue in the open room. We know that this is a difficult topic legally. We have been through a legal process relatively recently – a year ago – and, of course, we should not allow an interpellant debate to be a rematch on that legal process. When the Council of State says in its statement that he thinks we had a good debate a year ago, in November 2006, I agree with that. It was a good debate, a fundamental debate and an exciting debate on this difficult issue, both political and legal. But it must be allowed to mention that at that time there was an overall opposition, with the parties Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who certainly believed that the government's bill did not go far enough and was not good enough. I think it should be a good background information. At the time, the Government itself said in the draft resolution on which it was based, that what the Government was doing was to promote a proposal that would be a continuation of the existing rules and codification of the applicable law on e.g. the obligation of loyalty imposed by the law. It was a main point of opposition in this matter. We certainly believed on the basis of this that that proposal to the Government was not good enough. But that's the decision we now have. The Council of State is quite right that no case has been tried in court following the new law. There was a step in the right direction on some points, yes, but the steps were not enough and not long enough. That's why it's going to be exciting to see if, and when, there are cases before the court that address this, where we have the opportunity to assess whether the legal protection of alerts is good enough. In this respect, I appreciate the signal that Per Rune Henriksen gave, and as I understood from the statements of the Council of State, that if that is not the case, we can count on a new bill from the Government. I hope the Council of State can confirm this in the subsequent debate. It is that some businesses and municipalities have managed this in a very good way long before we got the new rules. I want to draw up the municipality of Oslo as an example for many. There they have set up their own warning unit and established in a very clear way that alerts are positive, that employees have the right and obligation to notify, and that they should be able to notify anonymously and in confidence. These are principles that I think any employer and any business should define and adhere to a large and prominent poster, whether we are talking about municipalities, state agencies, businesses or private business. Just by creating security for individual alerts by saying very clearly that the management of individual businesses is saying that alerts are positive, and that you have the right and duty to alert, I think that you can create the necessary security and culture for alerting. In fact, the absence of any indication of critical circumstances can contribute to an enterprise, for example, in its ultimate consequence. The Commission is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take a decision on the basis of Article 93(2) of the EC Treaty. We probably have a long way to go here – I think it's also legal – but of course it's the attitude and culture that ultimately decides. We know today that we will give homage to those who know critical conditions and who dare to stand up, and dry alerts. There are probably a lot of people who count on the buttons and weigh for and against whether to dry to take the chance, but who, based on an overall assessment, are going to think that this I don't dare, I can't, this is going to be too uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e361	Provisions to protect alerts and alerts are a very important issue for society. It's going to rule whether, to put it that way, we get the truth out, if crime is to be combated, if customers and users in businesses, both public and private, can get a proper view of what is right, and what is wrong. It means a lot, and I think it also means a lot to the individual, that it's actually possible to say the truth, and that it's appreciated. I am now a little surprised by some of the contributions from the opposition to an interpellation that I experience is very important. Obviously, no one in the opposition has come to realize that representatives from both the Government and the government parties, when we discussed the law last, concluded that the legal provisions we adopted actually provided the alerts better than the opposition's proposal, but we were also clear that if the practice developed so that the alerts did not receive sufficient protection, we were concerned to look at the law. It was said that time, and we're repeating it now. I believe that there has been a little too little emphasis on an important provision that was introduced, namely the establishment of warning procedures, the provision of alerting to critical circumstances. I think there's something that can change a practice that makes an expost alert come into an unsustainable interpersonal and social situation. Establishing alert procedures is a management responsibility. Therefore, the management of an enterprise or an undertaking, whether in its private or public activities, must have this theme high on the agenda. It is about establishing ethical guidelines in the company that say that honesty is an important ethical standard. One key point when we discussed the law last time was the concept of ‘responsibility’ against, for example. the term ‘business secrets’. Here we are in the midst of difficult questions of interpretation. The majority then realized that the concept of safety was more important. In addition, we see that the media plays a very important role in these matters. I don't think we should underestimate that. The power that things that come out into the media get is great. The problem may be that the solution at the workplace can become even more difficult, but it also increases the risk of not establishing good warning procedures and ensuring that the warning actually works in practical working hours at the workplace. When you turn to an authority for advice on how to deal with a situation where you feel the need to alert and where you see a problem, it is incredibly important that the guidance given to the alerts by the Labour Inspectorate, health authorities, the Credit Authority – or whoever it might be – is good. The Council of State put a lot of emphasis on the reverse burden of proof and explained how it should be understood. I don't have to say that much about it. But I want to say a little about a topic that several alerts have brought up with me, and that is that in many of these cases there has been a settlement. In retrospect, the alerter has repented of this – not because the alert did not get out of a difficult situation there or then, but because the conciliation did not mean that the workplace, management, organisation, culture or behaviour had to change. One theme that I think we need to look at in the future is how the settlement institute works in relation to being able to bring about the necessary change of practice in jobs where this is a problem. I hope that the provisions to now have on-the-job warning procedures can contribute to this. But it's not certain that that's enough. Therefore, there is reason to look at practices in workplaces where settlements have been made, whether alert practices are actually changing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e376	The wish to provide the alerts with real protection against formal and informal represals when they say about critical matters is cross-political. For several rounds we have had discussions on how best to ensure this in the law. When we last discussed this, the opposition parties wanted a different solution, avoiding the very concept of'responsible alert'. But I believe in the Councils of State and the spokespersons of the Government parties, that the desire to ensure the right to alert critical matters was – and still is – the overall consideration of the legislative paragraphs that the majority voted for. Interpellant asks the Council of State whether there may be a need for clearer rules and guidelines to protect alerts against movement and social exclusion at work. I believe that the Council of State has an open mind in relation to the intentions of the legislators with the adopted clauses on warning in the Working Environment Act, that this will be taken care of in practice in the workplace, and whether there may be a need for changes or clarifications. There are probably other areas of the Working Environment Act where the red-green prestige has been invested more strongly than in this field. At the same time, I am quite doubtful as to whether the actual challenges that several cases have shown us are present in relation to the circumstances of the alerts, can best be solved through more regulation. It is attitudes and culture that are the main problem, not necessarily lawmaking. The legislation alone cannot prevent social exclusion and bullying at work. Employer's redundancy in the case of alerts is explicitly prohibited. Nevertheless, there is – without necessarily having to be tried in labour law. In order to bring about a rapid change, I believe that what is most urgent in order to improve the situation for alerts is that the authorities are following up employers' new responsibilities to facilitate alerting. It should also be considered in greater detail whether an ombudsman system under public authority can ensure better anonymity and greater real protection for alerts. Action to improve the culture of warning must be a responsibility of the social partners. In particular, it should be a challenge for employers that, while a central level organisation will facilitate alerting, many workers feel that it is only negative for them to put their heads ahead and point to critical circumstances. Of course, it is the case that the employer should have an opportunity to rectify the situation internally in the enterprise before it becomes a public matter. Of course, it would be devastating for the working environment if any criticism of management – large or small – was voiced externally. But I really don't think that's a big problem in the workplace. The main problem is that the threshold to say whether clearly critical conditions are too high, because the personal costs are perceived as too high. And that fear can unfortunately be real – there have been several things that have shown us. Such a culture does not serve the labour market. Bullying can be part of such a culture. Governments have a unique opportunity to set the agenda for the social partners. So my call is to take this up with the parties. Ask them what measures can be taken by organisations — targeting individual private and public enterprises — to create a culture in which the requirements of the Labour Environment Act to facilitate alerts are actually followed up in practice. I hope that I can be a conclusion that both the position and the opposition can agree on in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e393	In the interpellation, the representative refers Dørum to the ugly examples we have seen that alerts are socially excluded from the workplace. It is also pointed out that the Swedish Research Department believes that under its governing law, an employer still has relative access to transfer the alerts to another position — against the wishes of the employee. So it's the replay that's the theme of this interpellation. When the Stortingen a year ago dealt with the changes in the Work Environment Act that deal with alerts, we underlined the importance of strict protection against retaliation in case of alerts. There is also a requirement for a shared burden of proof, which was not supported by the employers' organisations, in section 2-5 of the Working Environment Act. This implies that if the employee provides information which gives reason to believe that the act is an illegal rendition, the employer must be able to ensure that illegal rendition has not taken place. The combination of the burden of evidence and the right of workers to lay-up and compensation were considered to have an unfair impact on employers and businesses. That was the theme. Here I have to stop a little, because I am really surprised at the argument that the opposition representatives have used so far when they say that the Council of State is not quite a believer when he points out that the Storting had a clear desire for a stronger alert protection – because what they suggested weakened, but not reached, was precisely what went on with the possibilities of retaliation. They supported under the reservations of employers’ organisations against the strong legal protection against retaliation by proposing the introduction of a new fourth paragraph of Section 2-4. I'll quote from the setting. Paragraph 2-4, third paragraph, states: ‘The burden of proof on the employer that alerts have occurred is contrary to that provision.’ Very concrete and strong. Then they would weaken it by introducing a new fourth term: ‘The employer may not undertake investigations or other measures to identify the person behind an alert, unless the employer can prove that: [[...]] This was warned against, and it is clearly stated in the vote that the majority believes that this could weaken the protection against reprisals. So here you say that the big question is whether we're going to use “responsible” or “harmful” meaning, etc. There is no theme at all in this interpolation. Here's how we protect workers from retaliation in the best possible way, and here we, the majority, had stronger formulations, a stronger desire to secure this than the opposition had. So I think we should focus on Dørum's reasoning, which is linked to one thing being what we say in the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, another thing is how the labour law provisions or the understanding of employers' governing rights are treated. I am pleased that the Council of State followed it in such a concrete way, saying that if it is the case that the right to control is still perceived as going ahead of the alert paragraphs, yes, the Council of State will intervene. That's what the opposition should really join. But I understand – at least a year ago – that you were nervous that the retribution paragraphs would become too strong, and would weaken them. I think you need to explain how you think their fourth paragraph of Section 2-4 could be a stronger protection against retaliation than what the majority agreed to. You are trying to rewrite a history that does not provide a basis for rewriting what is actually in the position of the Labour and Social Committee and in the legislation that has now been passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e422	The President finds reason to remind us of the arrangement we have in the main hall – that the representative is addressed through the President, not directly to ‘they’, as was done several times here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e425	I would like to thank Mr Dørum for an important initiative. Traffic warning is a sensitive issue, but attention and public debate are needed. In fact, it is to be seen as one of the measures to enable both alerts, colleagues and employers to handle alerts. Because it turns out that potential alerters fear the social responses more than the legal consequences. We as a legislative body have a special responsibility for the formulation and formulation of case law, but as politicians, we also have an important role to play in putting matters on the agenda in public space, not least sensitive issues that may seem to be related to a small number. Equally fully, these can just be very principled and important. We have recently adopted new clauses on alerts in the Working Environment Act. An important part of such a decision is to put it into practice. Here, the State has a particular responsibility to inform and even to exemplify. Both employers and employees need and require this. I would therefore like to highlight in particular our information obligation and the communication tasks we have undertaken on behalf of potential alerts, but also on behalf of employers and colleagues. We need to develop greater transparency and tolerance for alerting in Norwegian workplaces. It's not a task for the few potential alerts. The responsibility rests equally heavily on those who do not become alerts. I therefore hope the Government and the Council of State have an awareness of their role as an information body, as much as I hope politicians from all parties take seriously our task as participants in the public debate on warning and social reaction patterns in the wake of the announcement of critical conditions in the workplace. We are the representatives of the people, and everyone should have confidence that we both engage, listen and dare to engage on both sides in delicate situations. So it's not going to come from that per. today to be the alerts that are the worst of their actions. Therefore, it is very important to stand up for the person who has tort, and for those who are considering whether to dry. A further debate on rules and guidelines for the protection of alerts, especially against social exclusion, is therefore essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e438	I've been politically active for 44 years and have quite a lot of experience that legal rules don't always equal social reality. I am a lecturer in social work and I am well aware of good intentions in Norwegian social legislation. I know that good intentions aren't always real. I started on purpose the alert history around 1980, with heavy things in the South-Trøndelag when I was a staggering representative of the county. I pulled it out, because what has impressed me is the fact that we have alerts that stand out with a full name and tell their story, and that what they've been through is so heavy that if they knew what they know today, it's not safe they'd done it again. I think that should make us all, regardless of party membership, quite humble. Then I have understood and am pleased with the state council's very clear clarification that the governing authority should not suspend the right to notify. Of course I'm happy about that. I am also pleased with the signals given by other representatives of the government parties about it. That was also the case in the debate that was in its time, that the opposition had the support of experts like Henning Jakhelln, Transparency and others, but I don't want to go into that debate, because I perceive that the purpose was to do this well. That is why I would like to stress, as I have heard in the debate, that it is a management responsibility – that is what the representative Karin Andersen said, and I very much agree with it – that there are procedures that make it socially and culturally credible that alerts are respected. That is also why, in a previous post, I made it clear that at least the state as an employer – and the state is a large employer – without breaking the sensible management of labour, for which, of course, Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen knows the need, has a special responsibility to ensure that routines and culture are written. When something was difficult at the time I had trust on behalf of the Norwegian people in the Ministry of Justice, we made conferences that we called ethos conferences. We gathered capable people to speak the truth about difficult things, to set culture and to let the tone that was set try to create a better climate for what was to happen. I would like to end by stressing that it is important. So I don't need to poke the Storting investigation section in front of me. I just needed to say that it was very nice 30 years later to actually have an alternative expertise to lean on. It meant that I could use it as a local in this room. And then it's not that one expertise is better than the other. For the Council of State, it is quite right that case-law should be established in the Court of Justice. But my article was about -- and it's still about -- the social reality. I am happy and assume that the Council of State and the government apparatus contribute to the establishment of the procedures we need and contribute to the creation of culture. If the state can do that in a good way, I'm sure that heavy, private actors will also be inspired by it. I thank you for an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e455	Only a few comments from my side also come to an end in a good debate. I don't think I particularly care about who voted for what when we dealt with the law. I just want to say that there are two aspects to this debate that are important. One is about the possibility of anonymous alerts, which was an important part of the debate last time, and the fact that people who do not want to stand up as alerts should nevertheless be able to alert. I believe that those roads exist today, both against the Labour Inspectorate and against other public oversight. And we know that the press will be very busy protecting its sources in that way. However, it can always be discussed whether the possibility of anonymous alerts is good enough or not. I'm very concerned, even if you have the possibility of anonymous warning, that not – and I don't feel that the interpellant is involved – the solution to our challenges is to reinforce the possibility. We have to do it legally to be alerts and to stand up and say that listen here, now I need to tell you about it and that in the company I work in. That is why the debate we have today is important, because it is precisely about both arguing that it is legal to be alerts, and – to the extent that someone should feel that it leads to retaliation – that you should have proper, proper and sound legal protection as alerts. That is what I think we have been stressed, and I believe, as I said, that we have taken this into account in the new law – that is where we stand well. So it remains to be seen when, if necessary, this is to be tried in a courtroom. Otherwise, I am also pleased that many in their contributions have emphasised that this is a management responsibility, routines should be established, culture should be established, so that it is important to take the lead with good examples and stress that alerts are wanted. Having good cultures for people to say from is an advantage for businesses, not a disadvantage for businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e464	The debate on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e482	First, briefly, about the background of the interpellation beyond what is stated in the interpellation text. I'm generally concerned with the first-line services of Norwegian society, and I'm particularly concerned about how these different first-line services meet people in difficult situations. For long periods of my political life, I've been concerned that we need administrative cooperation, and I know from life experience in different roles that it's easier to say it than to get it to. I know that it is necessary to establish that there is something to do. I know it's important to create the culture that makes it work. But I know that when you get it done, it has a significant positive effect. I know that. It may be in areas other than those included in the interpellation, e.g.: in cooperation between police, parents, child protection and school, in order to do what is necessary to ensure that young people entering service do not continue to operate. It also applies in the demanding field of drug care, which is not my topic today, between people working in municipal activity, and people working in state activity, health businesses, etc., and how important it is. My theme today is psychiatry and how it meets. I'm taking it up the way I do, because I think it can hardly be disputed that the 24-hour social service available in this country for most life events is the police. It's the police who can meet young people in action, it's the police who can meet the emergency psychiatrist, it's the police who come to a killing station, it's the police who come to the scene of a traffic accident. Because that's the way it is, I'm concerned with the wisdom of two cultures cooperating on respect for the two different cultures, examining how to get it. In addition to having followed the police's work literally over a 14-year period, I have also had great pleasure and benefit from e.g. the work that has taken place in Trondheim and Sør-Trøndelag in a cooperation project between the psychiatry in Trondheim/Southern Trondheim and the police to learn about each other and how to cooperate. I am also familiar with what has happened in Bergen. I am also familiar with the work that has been done by the Center for Security, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry for what was formerly the East Health Region, now the South-East Health Region, and the police. I also know that there was a big and successful seminar last year, and I know that an event is planned next year in the direction of the Social and Health Directorate and the Police Directorate. I choose to start with this to say that it's from both of these angles of incidence I choose to take the interpolation. Of course, I'm aware that the psychiatry has its powers, but they're not like the police's coercive powers. Police are the civil coercion authority in Norway in all living conditions; psychiatry is elsewhere. So the background for the interpellation is: how do we get a daily collaboration how good field workers, good people from the psychiatry part of society and the police, can help each other when acute situations arise? We know as a starting point that the police often deal with many situations in which mentally ill people are involved. So we also know that the situation can vary in Norway, at least in the number of cases, but I think you're going to have the principal challenges around the whole country. As far as the acute psychiatric ambulance in Bergen is concerned, I know that the police there believe they have good experience. I don't necessarily think that this is the solution everywhere. In Oslo, I have gone through what has been published openly about the cooperation between the acute psychiatrist and the police, which has been organised by the said Center of Competences for Security, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry, and I have learned, for example. How important it is for psychiatry to go on its own and not be too easy to call the police when someone escapes from a closed-ended institution — or someone like this. are under an obligation to provide mental health protection, but not in a day-to-day establishment. So you don't have to call the police easily, you actually have to do what you can because you know people. I focus on such experiences. I think that reviewing experiences that way means a lot. I also focus on the experience gained at the 2006 conference in charge of this centre of expertise. It was in Tromsø, where a psychiatrist who had been with the police at work, then told about all she had learned, and who she didn't know before she had been in that job, namely what the police were facing with challenges. So she was given a first-line competence that was very important. I think we have to be open to different local solutions. I think the point must be that we find knowledge locally as well. I'm e.g. from Oslo known that outpatient teams in mental health protection/psychiatry at Stovner and at the Winner have been in contact with the police, and that At Stovner, we have told you from the psychiatry that we would like to be with you at work to see and learn. And the wise people have taught me is that those who know about each other before anything comes to an end, they also have the best way to help each other when something comes to something – for two reasons: first, they know about each other's different work routines, and second, they know how to find the right people at the right time. I'm looking for the good systematics and the good cultures, how good field workers know about each other, and that by doing so they find the forms that are the best in Norway. I don't think there should be one template on this – the template should basically be how Norwegian citizens who are in difficult situations feel that they are being cared for in difficult situations. So I also say this in deep sympathy for policemen who can stand in such situations. I remember the meeting with a very experienced policeman here in this city that, as he said, would do something to a mentally ill person, who was also a psychiatrist, and as he said had the diagnosis of schizophrenia. He looked at me and said dryly: I had one advantage, and that was my physical strength – and I wasn't going to use it. Then I asked him, "What did you do?" No, I did my job now, he said. It goes without saying that by the quiet way of speaking, he thought the situation was difficult. He did not complain, but he said a little thoughtful – that time, and it was a few years ago – that it would have been okay to have a contact with the professionals I have also described. So I know from the other side where adventurous skilled nurses in somatics and nurses working on drugs are when they're in a first-line service and meet people who're out driving. And I know through the wanderings of life as social workers that when good professionals are taken, they can quickly find the language. But what often happens is that the good professionals aren't taken, because they get so much more involved. That's why it's a political responsibility and a management responsibility to create the good examples that it can shine off, that can be broadcast, that everyone can find inspiration and joy in. Because there is no doubt that many policemen I've met often feel lonely in difficult jobs. There is no doubt that they would have wanted someone there, but I have never heard them complain about those who were not there. On the other hand, I know through e.g. My meeting with parts of Oslo Psychiatry that they have been good in many ways to try to stretch. I know, for example. in areas other than those that I'm dealing with in the interpellation, that they say yes, we accept what we now call double diagnosis, i.e., abusing and mental illness, but we might have more to learn about being outpatient. So you talk in a thoughtful and humble way about something about people's lives when something is acutely difficult. I also choose to address this topic this way because in our society we have rapid reactions when we are somatically ill. In a big urban context, you no longer move out with an ambulance, you use a motorcycle or a bicycle to get into the traffic picture. So our heart has a heavy preference -- I don't have anything against it, of course. But there's something wrong with – without putting anyone in embarrassment, because it's not my intention – how we can take care of the good systematic work, which I know then, and which I have described here from the capital, through acute psychiatry and police, and how to take care of these experiences in such a way that those in the field service of society, the first line service of society, can feel that when they do a demanding job, they have the best possible support of others who can assist them. And then I've never meant, and I don't mean here, that the emergency psychiatrist should put on the police force. But professional insight and human security are extremely strong factors. People who have this experience often manage to sort situations in an easy way, and you can't do it if you don't have any cooperation or if you don't have these people to contract. So I am promoting the interpellation in this way because I want to inspire from the point of view of what it is easy to say, namely that administrative cooperation is desirable, so that this debate can contribute to setting examples and tone, because it is something that is being put into practice. And when you ask a government council question, it's of course to ask the state council to help establish these brilliant examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e510	The representative of Dørum is raising an important debate, because, as is well known and as I said, the police are often the first to have contact with the mentally ill in acute and distressing situations. The police are making a great effort towards this group of people. So it's seaworthy, as the representative Dørum also said, that the police and health services have different tasks and different responsibilities in dealing with mentally ill people: the health service has been responsible for providing immediate health care and providing the necessary health care to people with mental disorders. Police have a general duty to assist or provide assistance to persons who are unable to take care of themselves and who are not cared for by others. The police also have a statutory obligation to alert a doctor if necessary and to provide assistance to the health service in the context of mandatory mental health protection. The government has as its overall objective the treatment of all people with respect and dignity in the context of health care. It also applies to mentally ill people in extreme situations. I believe there is a broad consensus that people with mental health problems should primarily be met by the health services and not by the police. When the police take care of people with mental disorders, it is often because the police have moved out because of house problems or conflict situations in the public space. In other situations, the police are involved because they have a legal obligation to provide the necessary protection and assistance to health services in the context of mandatory mental health protection. Health services and the police have common challenges in dealing with the mentally ill. The main means of success in this difficult work is systematic work and good cooperation between police and health services at local level. This is the Minister of Justice and I agree. The Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Social and Health have established a permanent cooperation forum which meets every quarter. This cooperation is very useful. Among other things, as we know, there was a joint circular on the responsibilities of the health services and the police for the mentally ill, which came in June last year. Here we recommend that health services and the police agree on cooperation procedures locally and that they conclude agreements, if any. In this way, we believe that common challenges should be able to be solved in a good way. In the mental health escalation plan, access to services and proximity to users are two important objectives. District Psychiatric Centres, DPS, which are part of the specialist healthcare service, are an important measure in this context. Following the entry into force of the escalation plan, 76 such centres are established around the country. In the mission document of the regional health establishments, it is necessary for the centres to provide outpatient emergency and emergency services. They shall also be offered 24-hourly and shall be provided with outpatient services. Regional health enterprises have been given the task of setting up outpatient teams at each health business, including the DPS. They shall also facilitate the testing of emergency teams in selected parts of the region. In addition, the Social and Health Directorate has given leadership that outpatient services should be an important part of a decentralised service. Today, 26 outpatient teams are established around the country. These teams conduct outreach activities in the day, afternoon and evening hours. So the opening times vary slightly from DPS to DPS. The government is concerned that the police should be able to perform the service in the best possible way for patients. We have launched more measures in major cities to promote cooperation between police and health services and to ensure that health services are available when needed. In Oslo, it is the district psychiatric centers that have immediate daytime help functions in addition to the Medical Act. This means that patients brought to the police for investigation should be assessed at the centre. From 16:00 to 23:00 a.m. on weekdays and from 12:00 a.m. to 23:00 a.m. on weekends, there is a Psychiatric Doctor who makes immediate help assessments for the whole of Oslo. Patients with whom the police come are given high priority and waiting time shall not exceed 15 minutes. At night, general practitioners at the Oslo Medical Watch evaluate the patients. As of 1 September this year, Prison Psychiatric Outpatient Clinic in Oslo prison has an agreement with the police's central arrest to provide immediate assistance assessments of arrestees and educate staff on how to do this. Particular attention shall be paid to assessing the risk of maritime murder. For the time being, this is a pilot project with great interest from the Government. Oslo's bodyguard has a 24-hour emergency team assisting in acute crises all over the city. The team does not have psychiatrists or psychologist specialists, but receives support from Psychiatric medical staff when needed. Since 2004, Oslo has had a cooperation network between the police and health services that is supported by the Competence Centre for Security, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry. Every healthcare company in Oslo has an agreement with the police on dealing with mental illness. I'm glad these measures seem to work. In the last six months, Oslo Police District has reported a decline in so-called unnecessary use of police force for transport in mental health matters. I believe that there is reason to believe that better cooperation and the measures described in the circular and put in place have contributed to this somewhat positive development. I would also like to stress that when the police have to go out and pick up people who are seriously mentally ill, it is very important that uniform is used to the minimum possible. Here we know that it doesn't always happen, and it's probably not always possible to avoid it, but as far as possible one should avoid using uniform when people who are ill are picked up at home. Measures have also been taken in the other major cities: In Bergen, as you know, there is a separate psychiatric ambulance that contributes to good cooperation with the police. In Trondheim, there is a well-functioning cooperation system, and a cooperation agreement between the police and health services is to be concluded in the near future. In Health North, they're working to achieve formalized cooperation in these days. In Stavanger, they have an ambulance team that's moving out on request from the police. Cooperation agreements have also been concluded in other cities and districts, or good practice has been put in place. The representative of Dørum also asks whether it may be appropriate to make emergency psychiatric staff available for police operations in Oslo. To that end, it is the regional health companies that, in cooperation with the police, have to assess which solutions are most appropriate at each point. There are more elements in the escalation plan than those I have mentioned here, which are of great importance to how healthcare should cooperate with the police for the benefit of the people we are talking about here. This applies, inter alia, to: the construction of municipal services for the mentally ill, and, on a sea level, information and awareness-raising work in general. As the government is aware of the draft budget for next year, it has proposed an appropriation to ensure the completion of the phasing-in plan. I can also promise that this government will place great emphasis on mental health even after the expiry date of this escalation plan has expired. Then it is clear that cooperation with the police will also have a great deal of attention from us in the future. Finally, I agree with the representative Dørum that it is important that we spread even more the good examples, the examples that show that there is a lot of good going on in this area, so that you can learn from what doesn't always make things work as well as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e556	I thank the Council of State for a comprehensive response. We share the view that it is important to establish a practice locally and in the line for this to work. And I think that a debate in Stortinget like this can help to push it. I say it because it is important and good that conferences like this are held at the Competence Centre last year. It is important and good that a conference will also be held next year. However, one conference, or one swallow, does no summer. But it's good with the swallow. Then it's about doing that we can help spread the examples. I think it's good that we can talk as exactly as the Council of State did when she said that the police often meet the psychiatrist through what was historically called housewreck in police language. Now we all know that the police are gradually calling some of the situations of violence in close relationships. We also know that it can occur acutely in the public space. And we know that, for example. can be about how the first line service of the police is built up by status. I'm not going to bring that up here, but it's an important debate. My concern now is that health workers who work in the first line are respected and the service is strengthened. I feel that the Council of State has stressed this in its response to me. I also agree with her that there must be local solutions. I would just like to encourage the Council of State, in the context of the event planned next year between the Social and Health Directorate and the Police Directorate, in the context of the circular she describes, to make sure that perhaps written can be supplemented by more descriptions of what you achieve and how you achieve it. Because it's through such descriptions good professionals get the inspiration to say that's what's right here with us, that we can do it this way. I also agree with the Council of State that the teams that are built up, and which she specifically mentioned from Oslo, mean a lot. Then it's very important that you know each other mentally, and that you're sure that it works. I'm not going to give any advice on how to make sure of it. I just want to stress how important it is that it happens. So it's often the case in all occupations based on the tour, that people can walk through the professions, and that, of course, increases the need for those who walk through these rotational situations, to have at least some practical opportunities to bring with them the experience. Because it's not like an experience that someone's had goes without saying. It's inherited because this training that the Council of State is talking about, and that I've been concerned about, you take care of systematically. And I choose to put it this way, because we know it changes in the police's field service. We know that it also changes in the working conditions of health workers, perhaps especially in large cities. So I ask the Council of State to take special note of how good culture that is created in some places can be passed on to new shifts and new shifts, even outside the daily tour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e576	I feel that we are very much in agreement on this. With regard to the first line service, it is clear that it needs to be further strengthened in all ways in order to catch people in the past as well, and in order for people to get help and treatment much faster than they see in some cases today. When it comes to the question of local solutions and the systematic capture of the good examples, or even a teacher when people are replaced, I agree with Mr. Dørum that this is very important. I'm also going to bring that back to the Minister of Justice, and we're going to see how, in cooperation, we can also strengthen that bit further beyond what we're already doing. So I think it's seaworthy that it's written so far, and the good cooperation routines that now exist in many places around the country need to be further developed all the time. That's why I also take with me the recording that Dørum had in relation to being able to supplement it with good examples, if I understood the representative correctly. I take these recordings further into the important work, and I look forward to hearing the rest of the debate as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e589	I now have the opportunity to visit the various police stations in Oslo, and I can confirm that the theme that the representative of Dørum addresses is an important question for them. There are still real and difficult problems here, although it is also said to me that the situation is better than before, that it goes by less time overall to run across to find out where to do the patients. What we should have with us when we discuss this is that when a message about an uncontrollable situation comes to the police and they're going to move out, i.e. a situation that requires intervention, it's hard to know before they've got control of the person and clarified the situation, whether the condition can be caused by drugs, pills or other of these new types of drugs that have unpredictable and often violent effects on people, or whether there may be mental disorders that are the cause of the condition. It is expedient that the police find out first, and then they have to have quick access to psychiatric assistance if you realize that that is the need. It is then right that they cooperate with the local DPSs, who will often know these people in advance, and therefore will have a much better basis for a proper procedure and a proper form of contact in the case of mental disorders. They're going to have ambulance teams now that move out immediately when the police need to, and they're going to be able to accept the police as soon as they get to the DPS. If it works, it's clear that the local knowledge that the local DPS have is the best way to meet these people. It may be a problem – we have heard stories about driving around – that people can live elsewhere than at the local DPS, so that they are referred to further, but it is, after all, manageable. What you could say is that after the closing hours of the DPS, like in Oslo, there's a psychiatric doctor who's open toward noon. 23:00 on weekdays, and midnight on weekends. Then there are general practitioners who will make the assessment with the police when they get to the medical officer. I think that these three different offers during the day – that is, DPS in the daytime, psychiatric medicine up to midnight and then general practitioners afterwards – sometimes make it a little difficult for police officers to understand where to turn. It's a challenge for the police both to know the system and to learn the system, but also for health services to simplify it. I think in particular that assessing the need at night, whether something more is needed then than a general medical assessment in order to be able to meet and help the police and patients in a good way at the doctor's office, is something we in Oslo and certainly elsewhere in the country should look at. We should also consider whether the capacity of the DPS is always good enough to meet the police as soon as they contact them. But I have not received any messages now on these rounds that there has actually been an insurmountable problem in recent times. But what's also a challenge I want to address here is on the police side. For some of the dissatisfaction you can hear when you talk to the police about this about driving around with people who are in a psychotic state, you realize that you don't think this is proper police work. Then we have to stress that dealing with people who are uncontrollable, no matter what the reason, is actually police work. We must also stress that an important part of what we are going to learn from the police is the ability to reassure people, to have social skills, to have knowledge and experience, to understand human beings, to deal with such difficult situations. So, in my opinion, greater emphasis should be placed on this in recruitment, training, etc. in the police, e.g. at the political school and in the course and further training. It's a cross-thinking thing to do when you're admitted to the Police College in a quiet long jump, but not in the absence of social skills. So I think it's important, for example. in the context of the debate that was also linked to the early departure of Lieutenant Finn Abrahamsen in the police department, to look at what kind of police we're going to have, what kind of qualities we're going to develop, so that we can meet these situations. My conclusion is that we need a development both in terms of the health care part of this, especially in terms of the medical service's offer at night, which I have noticed critics of lately, and in terms of police competence to deal with people in all situations, and to put greater emphasis on this in all their activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e606	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing the serious situation that arises when mental illness needs to be dealt with either in order to get to treatment or to be calmed down. I joined Robert Eriksson, Harald T. Nesvik and Jan Arild Ellingsen in raising this question in Document No. 8:47 for 2005-2006. Then we also had a debate about this, and during the discussion of the matter, none of the parties wanted to support our proposal. After all, the proposal was to set up psychiatric ambulance services according to the model of Health Bergen in all health businesses, i.e. within the five health companies we had then. Everyone agreed that psychiatric patients should be met with the same dignity and offer of emergency care as patients with somatic disorders. Those who took part in the previous debate all agreed that there was a problem that psychiatric patients were increasingly followed up by the police, whether it was about people in mental imbalance, often combined with drug problems, who needed emergency care, or there were patients who had disappeared from forced care, and who were brought back by the police. Figures from 2005 showed that the Eastfold police had 735 calls to pick up patients they did not think belonged to under their responsibility. We also saw that Health Bergen had 1,100 calls in the first year that they wouldn't have had if they hadn't had this psychiatrybulance. It is a social problem that the police, with their scarce resources, spend time on tasks that others are responsible for. Moreover, the police do not have the competence to deal with serious psychiatric patients, which may lead to unfortunate and dangerous situations. It is also a failure that serious sick patients are not followed up by the hospital when they disappear from treatment. It is actually health professionals and not the police who have the necessary professional competence to make a diagnosis. There I have to say that I disagree with Jan Bøhler, who believes that it is the task of the police to determine whether there is a psychiatric disorder or a drug case you are facing. It is a failure when the police are going to stand and decide where this patient or person is going to get help. An emergency team of psychiatric experts based on the model of what was established in Bergen, as we see it, should still be a requirement in all health regions. The service in Bergen has shown good results, which both the police and the health business and not least the patients are very pleased with. In other words, it's a win-win situation, and it hasn't had the big economic consequences either. That ambulance is civil. It is equipped with modern tools, which is necessary for dealing with serious sick people. It's unworthy to be picked up in a police car when you're sick. There has never been any question of whether we should have regular medical ambulances here in the country, whether there is a need everywhere, and whether appropriate solutions should be found. I think we have to look at it the same way when it comes to mental illness. They should be able to have the same dignity and the same certainty that they will be met in the right way. Of course, police assistance will still be necessary, but this has to be an addition. They'd rather not come first. As it is today, it is both frightening and demeaning, and not least stigmatizing, that mental illness is being picked up by uniformed police. It's no crime to have a serious mental illness. These patients must be able to have the same professional personnel in emergency situations. There was agreement in the committee that this was a problem, but there was agreement among the majority, except for the Progress Party, that this was something to be arranged between the health companies and the police, which has been a lot of talk today. What we wanted at the time was not to make a blue copy of what was done in Health Bergen, but that it should be like a template, and that something had to happen, that there had to be much clearer demands on health care companies to take their responsibility. When the same problem is now addressed one and a half years later, it should be possible to question whether the majority who last decided not to do anything more concrete than what has been done now did the right thing. It is about improving working conditions for health professionals and for the police, but what is most important is to ensure a decent, professional and good treatment for this vulnerable patient group. I would like this to be re-assessed in order to clarify interfaces between the police and the health business and to clarify guidelines on how to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e629	I would also like to join the ranks of representatives who have given tribute to the representative Dørum for bringing up a very important topic, which unfortunately is also recurring, and which we should perhaps have cleared up a while ago. In June, the representative Dag Ole Tegen and I attended a seminar in the Stortinget on psychiatry, coercion and human rights. Then this was the most up-to-date topic. It was to a large extent one of several elements that organisations and individuals in the field brought up with us. But it's clear that they were particularly concerned about the bit that goes on being picked up by the uniformed police when you're in an extremely vulnerable and difficult situation and perhaps going to be filed by force. Although the interpellation concerns the police and how they experience these situations – I have great sympathy for that, it's a very important piece – I still want to focus mainly on patients and relatives and their experiences of this, to complement the picture a little. Mental Health, the Council of Mental Health and the National Association of Indigenous Peoples of Psychiatry have for several years pointed out the unworthy and offensive in that psychologically ill people are picked up in that way. Neither can human law be defended. Human rights require necessity and soundness before enforcement can be put into service. But we know that, at least in between, it is not such assessments that form the basis, but rather prevention considerations for the helpers, the lack of personnel or civil cars. The European Torture Committee has criticised Norway for the prevention of the use of handcuffs and ankles in such situations. This has been followed up in different ways, both from the authority team through initiatives taken by the ministry, from the Social and Health Directorate and also from the police and justice sides, and some of the regional health establishments have taken initiatives, such as: in Bergen with the so-called «psyche car», in Oslo and in Trondheim. The volunteer organisations in the field have asked us to provide similar practices in all health businesses. There is a detention unit from the department, among others. because it is important to take into account local variations. We're essentially in agreement with that from SV. But at the same time, it is important that we are impatient and demand the experience of the regions, businesses and police districts that have taken action, to know how it has worked, and to ensure that it is spread at a high pace, and that it is not absorbed in this field. Because it's very serious when we get criticism from the human rights team not to discharge human rights obligations, and especially from a group of people who may be at the bottom and most vulnerable. So it'll be interesting to know, for example. whether an evaluation of the so-called ‘psyche car’ has been carried out in Bergen. We've understood that it hasn't been done, but it has to be an important piece to spread the experience. In many ways, the image of a uniformed police force that puts a mentally ill person in iron, perhaps one of the most concrete images we can imagine, is still miles between what is accepted for somatically ill people, and what is accepted for those who have a mental disorder. For relatives, these situations are so dramatic that I think it's hard for us others to understand. Last year there was a report that gave us an important insight into exactly this. The report was written by Senior Lecturer Karen Louise Pedersen from the University of Diakonissen. The report shows that police officer coercion is a major additional burden in a situation that is already very difficult to deal with for the family. In the summary of the report, we read: ‘It is stigmatizing when the police act in uniform, and it is offensive that sick people are wearing handcuffs in such contexts. The sick person is criminalised and the family is aware of the injury.’ At the same time, the author writes that ‘police may also appear as ‘good helpers’ for relatives’. But that's because: ‘Health is essentially not a support and follow-up service. The family must deal with its own crises." Furthermore, the report states that the majority of informants have experienced police coercion because relatives are not heard or believed when they ask for help to the sick person. Such coercion is also described as a consequence of the swing door problem. And, ‘Many of the informants have experience that the health care system without a change will allow the police to take the task of bringing the sick to medical attention.’ These are serious claims that we have to take seriously. That means that we both have to make sure that there are specific guidelines that say something about how this is to be handled, that take into account the human rights obligations, and not least that we listen to those people who are involved and who can tell us how this is happening in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e652	I don't know if the representative Dørum can take more honey now, but he'll get it from here too. This is, as Mr Giltun mentioned, a debate that Stortinget has had in the past, in a way. I guess it's not good to say how to get a perfect system in this field. We know that the psychiatrist has his duties and that the police have theirs. But sometimes it's actually that some of them are contacted and first come to a place where someone needs help, whether it's from the psychiatry or from the police. I think we have to admit that then it is about doing as good a job as possible, regardless of who comes to the place to assist. As well in the health sector as elsewhere, one of the main challenges is interaction — between levels and between departments. Here we are also talking about interaction between different sectors and services. The law is clear. The Law on Mental Health provides clear guidance on how this should be done. In addition, the Police Act states that the police should assist if necessary. It is pointed out in the debate that being picked up by uniformed police in a given situation can be an additional violation. I fully agree with that. Now it's pointed to what's been a project in Bergen. There was just one of the points that police assistance was to be done civilly, that is, that civil police assisted the psychiatry. I think that's an important point. Because we must recognise that there is both good and bad experience in the area of health and police cooperation. Everyone who has spoken before me has asked the Minister of Health to bring the good results of such cooperation to other places in the country, and I can only join them. However, I would like to say when the representative of Bohemia was involved in the police and their education, that I have the impression that the Norwegian police have a good background in dealing with many different situations. It's not for nothing that the Norwegian police are as high as they are at international level, precisely because they have a different background than is normal in national police in terms of human knowledge and understanding. But, of course, everything can get better. I don't doubt that. I am also concerned about another aspect, namely that healthcare becomes more accessible. Now I'm going to take one example: when a 14-year-old is mentally ill, the school says, you get to contact the BUP. The parents don't know what the BUP is, and they don't know how to get help there. At the end, it could mean that it's the police, because there won't be anything out of the help that gets him caught. This with the availability of psychiatry and, not least, getting district psychiatric centers more into the first-line service, I think is a challenge that still needs to be worked on, so that the desire for help is met by the psychiatry and not by the police – that there is an accessible psychiatry we are experiencing. We absolutely share the intention of the proposer. I'm glad the psychiatry plan is being fully funded for next year. It's actually almost $1 billion more just that. It does not have to mean anything other than that opportunities are also provided for further work in this field. Experience transfer is important – the fact that we do not say that this is my or your table, but that it is actually our common table.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e678	Some people with mental disorders will come into situations where they no longer have control of their own lives, where they are at risk of harming the lives of other people and thus have to be taken care of by force. As the Council of State said, the police, along with the health services, do a great deal of work in many places just to assist people who come in such situations in their lives. There is full agreement that people with mental illness should be met by health professionals and that only exceptional use should be made of the police. So everyone also stresses that when the police are used, they should not be uniform. I agree with Mr. Inga Marte Thorkildsen that for both patients and relatives, it could be perceived as a violation that the police would be deployed. Then we're talking about the experience that people have, and that's the one we're going to take seriously in the middle of this. However, it is necessary to have routines and organisation that serve the patient and that should actually help improve the patient’s health status. For sometimes, if the routines aren't good, it's just going to help make the patient's health worse. In the context of the mental health escalation plan, which goes into its final year, according to the plan, more than 70 district psychiatric centres have been established. These District Psychiatric Centres are required to provide emergency services through their outpatient activities and to have outpatient teams in health establishments. As we have heard, it may be especially in cities that the need to think differently and more specifically is present. I also think it's nice to hear that the cooperation between police and health professionals is improving, that in many places it's very good, and that they're working together and getting to know each other's culture. But I'm a little surprised, too, when someone says – I'm so glad that it's just the Advance Party – that that template, like for example. The ambulance in Bergen has, like we're supposed to have all over the country. I think that the posts here have just shown that there are different possibilities and different solutions around, depending on how health services are organised, how the police work, etc. There will be no point in getting rigid rules on how to organise emergency services and emergency teams. As the Council of State said, and as several others have mentioned, it works well with its own ambulance in Bergen, but it is not certain that that model will work in Skien, Oslo or Tromsø. What is essential is that in all regional health establishments there should be an emergency team that can assist when people lose control of their lives and need to be taken care of. So I also think that when you've been able to build up the DPSs, and in a way make them ‘sit down’, the need for emergency services will actually be less, because psychiatric patients can get a good treatment that allows them to live in society close to us other people who don't have mental disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e690	It's a difficult, but very important topic the interpellant has addressed today. I'll still say I disagree a little with the problem. I don't think there's any particular problem for the big cities. It is true that very many places in District Norway may have one active police patrol to distribute from five to eight municipalities, and there are often large geographical areas where there is often a long way to an acute psychiatric unit. This means that regardless of whether you talk about town or country, you're totally dependent on good relations between the police and health services. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Health and Justice have so much focus on interaction on this challenge. Once upon a time, the police are often those who first come into contact with people with mental disorders, because situations have arisen in public or private spaces and someone has called for help, either relatives or others who have seen something. In those situations, I find it difficult to see that it is easy to get rid of the uniform to the police. The police then have an autonomous duty to assess whether healthcare should provide psychiatric assistance to that person. On the other hand, it is also the case that the police are obliged to assist in the context of mandatory mental health protection, and in those situations, I think, there might be a problem with the use of uniforms. Then I just want to step in a little bit to what the representative, Mr. Bøhler, said, that it's easy to iron on a quiet length, but not on social skills. That I would say is a little bit more nuanced than that. There are also a number of interview rounds at the Police College in relation to how you are used socially. So I'll probably go straight with the representative Bohemian on it. I believe there has been a good development in this area in recent years. Among other things, the Police Directorate and the Health Directorate have sent out a joint circular highlighting the need for local cooperation procedures and any local agreements. This is because it is very difficult to find a template that is appropriate for all geographical areas in Norway. We have also seen a clear improvement in the districts after we have now established many more district psychiatric centers. This has led to a significant reduction in the distance from outpatient and emergency emergency services in many districts, which in turn means that the overall police response in the districts is strengthened, because a person spends less time on transport for these types of patients. I would also like to agree with both the representative of Dørum and the Minister of Health that it is very important to broadcast the good news that works well locally between the health company and the police, and that someone can then carry out a good transfer of competence in this regard. I believe that the most important thing we can do is prevent this kind of assistance from being needed. That's why I'm convinced that the 100 million. We are increasing rehabilitation for drug users with it will reduce this issue in the future. The implementation of the escalation plan will be very important in order to reduce the need for this type of assistance in the future. That's exactly why I'm a little proud to be part of the red-green cooperation, which focuses on the prevention aspect. It will help mainly those people who then release this kind of assistance, but it will also help greatly in establishing good practice both in the districts and in the city for health services and police, and that one then might need fewer assignments of this kind.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e705	I think it is very good that we can sometimes have this kind of debate in Stortinget. This is a matter that is most concerned with respect for very ill people, and how we all, but especially police and health professionals, act. But it is also a matter of practical action. In the Labour Party, we agree that both police and health professionals in many situations are doing a very, very good job, and the few of us can fully understand which situations are handled on a daily basis. Many have been involved in incidents where the police come in uniform in a police car and pick up mentally ill people at home. That's what Breen's representative says, that this is not just about big cities, it's also about small communities. When so many are concerned about just that, it's because it makes so incredibly strong impressions. Several have indicated that it is stigmatizing. I fully agree with that, of course. But that is an unfathomable impression for the relatives, especially where there is a child at home. None of us, I think, fully know what kind of consequences it will have in the long term for children of mentally ill parents. In 2007, we can't have it like this. That's why I'm very happy that the Council of State was very clear on that point, and that she particularly took it upon herself. There are still so many prejudices about mental disorders that we have to help change those attitudes. And at least we don't do that by making forced insertions visible in the way that's mentioned earlier. I think everyone understands that the situation with mentally ill people can require the use of both coercion and physical power, and that the police have access to it. When the Council of State makes it clear that people with mental illness are primarily going to be met by the health services and not by the police, I think that's very wise. Local cooperation practices between the police and the health services will therefore be very crucial for us to deal with the daily situation in order to deal with the demanding situations of the mentally ill in a worthy way, to help to erase the distinctions between the mentally ill and the somatically ill and to increase respect for all those people, regardless of the type of disease we can all be affected by. At the end of its article, the Council of State also included the Roadmap for Mental Health, where there are so many good elements in improving the situation, especially in the first-line service. I think we're all looking a little bit brighter in the future when we get a better network out in the first line service.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e722	At the heart of the debate is people with mental illness, yes. It could be people with a diagnosis. There could be people connected to an institution. But of course, there can be people that no one knows about before just then. It can be a mental disorder that breaks out as a result of addiction, latent mental illness – double diagnosis, call it – etc. And it can be dangerous. Not many years have passed since policemen were shot and killed in such a situation. That's why the point is that there's not one answer to that. The core of it, which I think everyone has been involved in, is that the field workers both in health care, responsible for mental illness, and in the police, who meet the most, have to know about each other. Then I agree with the representative of Breen that it's not just in Oslo. No, but as the representative Bøhler and I changed a few words about it, there need not be so many cars on guard one night in Groruddalen, with 130 00 inhabitants, either. One does not get time to change – out of the uniform – and do anything else. The reality is so complex that we can take with us all the ideal images that different representatives have talked about. But the crucial thing for me, and I feel that everyone has gone into it, is how we build enough practical knowledge between the people who are going to meet you, so that they get it as well as possible. There are two imperatives in this for me. One imperative is that people in the health sector have to go out to people even in the case of mental illness. As so many people have said, it's easier when it comes to something somatically wrong. It's the one cultural challenge, and there's a lot of examples of it changing. The other cultural challenge is – and there I believe that the representative of Bohemia has a point, even though he has eaten himself unnecessarily, I think – that the police's order service, or the field service, as I would call it, has a declining status in some places. It is an independent point that policemen in this service, as we find throughout the country, through their recruitment, education and not least career paths and further education, get a sense that this first-line service is very valuable. At that point, in a debate to be held at a different time and elsewhere than this, I feel the need to state that it is also a first-line service. And it's complex, which many people have been involved in. Then it's very important that the ballast is good all the way. I'm going to put the pressure on what happens after you're educated, that then you get the feeling that this is valuable in your career development, salary development, etc. I thank you for having had a debate in Stortinget that I call a contribution to the great cultural massif. It's the one that's about a sheep for an administrative cooperation between good people here and there, across what kind of legal rules they're equipped with. And despite a lot of papers they're equipped with, we hope that people will stay with people. That is my hope after this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e739	As several speakers have pointed out, this is a difficult thing. There is not one matching fasitant response, either in each individual situation or in all parts of the country. I agree with the representative of Bøhler that seawork has been very positive – for I believe that it has, both through the Roadblock for Mental Health and through the very good cooperation that is now taking place between the health services and the police – we will have to go further. We have to get even better, because we're not good all the time and everywhere. So I fully agree. So the representative raises the question: What happens after the closing hours of the DPS? That's an important question. Now, I think the overview we have shows that people know more about where to turn and where to seek help now – after we've had the escalation plan for a few years. This also applies to the police, where necessary. Clearly, it's the greatest activity in the evening. In particular, this applies in the major cities. I believe that the representative here, whether there are too many healthcare systems that the police have to deal with, is an important input, which we take with us. So I wonder a little bit when I hear the representative Giltun, because it sounds like there's almost nothing positive happening in this area in the last few days. It has, after all, sail if there are still some challenges. I just want to repeat what I said, as many speakers have been about, when it comes to the matter of uniform. Firstly, I would like to stress what Breen's representative was about, that there are many districts that have a completely different reality from what we have, among other things. in this city right here. It has to be like this. This is the Minister of Justice and I agree. We have given this message to both the Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Social Affairs and Health that as far as possible one must seek to avoid using uniform when one is going to pick up sick people at home. Then everyday life and reality can be so that for different reasons sometimes it has to happen, but as far as possible an attempt has to avoid it. I don't think we need to argue anything more because it's important. The same is true of the question of handcuffs, etc. Then to the question from the representative of Thorkildsen, among others. on the system of ambulances in Bergen and whether it has been evaluated. Very familiar, it's not. But at least what we're hearing about it is that it's a very good arrangement. I'm going to take that input with me, too, and see if there's any reason to evaluate it, including the learning effect of it. I fully agree with the representative of the Syversen, who said that cooperation is, of course, a key issue here too. I fully agree with what has been said here about health care becoming more accessible. We're working on that, not least through the escalation plan. And so it's also the way that the representative of the Skjillaa had it, that the system of ambulances in Bergen works, it's not at all certain that that's exactly the way we're going to organize it in all parts of the country. I think it's very important, as many of the speakers here have also been involved, that we give room for local discretion in the way of organizing this. But, of course, the starting point is that one has to find the best solutions for those patients who need help, and that people are people – seagoingly – as the representative Dørum said at the end of his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e758	That is when the debate is on case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e764	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e6102	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-18.ana.ud450e6346	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
