ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e17	Then I suppose the Christmas mood has sunk over both representatives and this house, and we continue the negotiations and start with case number. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e31	The proposal of the representative of those representatives to introduce a tax incentive/tax deduction scheme for enterprises implementing continuing training measures which provide formal qualifications for employees suggests that the majority of the Committee is not accepted. I expect the minority to explain themselves and their proposals. The majority of the Committee would stress that supporting research may make sense because research can be of greater value to society than to individual enterprises. The majority of the Committee considers that, with regard to the investment of enterprises in empowerment measures for employees, the picture is different. Such measures will, as a general rule, contribute to increasing the productivity of the enterprise and will therefore often be implemented without support. The majority point to the fact that if funds are channelled from measures to prevent exclusion from the labour market or to assist people in work and to enter-company training, this could, in the worst case, mean a clean transfer to the business sector which, in any case, implements empowerment measures. As mentioned above, the investment of enterprises in capacity-building measures may be a good business-economy investment. Therefore, companies themselves should have good reasons to implement this. In some cases, enterprises will not have incentives to implement measures. This may apply to workers who are long-term sick or for other reasons require retraining, workers with special needs and workers with low qualifications. Enterprises also do not have incentives to implement skills-enhancing measures for those outside the labour market. It is important for society to maintain a large workforce and to help keep people in work rather than receiving social security. There are therefore a number of measures aimed at preventing exclusion from the labour market or at helping people in work. Substantial funds are currently being provided for, inter alia: adult training activities organised mainly to help adults with low qualifications receive basic education, vocational training and other measures to prevent exclusion from the labour market or to help people in work. The channelling of part of the funds to the enterprises may involve a lower activity in this area. That is something that the majority of the committee believes would be unfortunate. That is why the majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e48	The proposal we are now considering is to introduce another tool to increase the basic competence of workers in Norwegian companies. We know that there are over 400,000 people in Norway who have such poor reading skills or so poor sense of numbers that they have problems working in the workplace. These people are particularly vulnerable in a day-to-day way to change and change. In the 1960s, 1970s and part of the 1980s, there was a position in a number of Norwegian industrial communities that it wasn't very dangerous if you didn't do it very well at school, because it would always be work to get into the corner stone company in the municipality. Some of the same trends are now identified by comparative studies such as PISA and PIRLS. Norwegian children and young people have a high self-esteem, but they score poorly compared to other countries. The most frightening thing is that many Norwegian youths also have no ambitions to acquire knowledge. They don't see the importance of it and expect them to be doing well. Every five students have problems understanding information and acquiring knowledge through reading. There are, of course, several reasons for this situation. Norwegian school has had too little focus on learning outcomes for a number of years. Lack of teacher training and low status have led to the fact that we have not recruited the most skilled professionals for the teaching profession. A significant degree of labour immigration and reception of low-level refugees and asylum seekers is also an important factor. Furthermore, we have a welfare society with many offers and opportunities and a very tight labour market, which also contributes to the fact that a good number of young people are not hungry enough to acquire further formal skills. We also see a challenge in that social differences are largely reproduced. The result is, as mentioned, that we have a number of Norwegian workers with a lack of basic skills. Some have been done to fix this. In 2002, adults were entitled to primary education related to the needs of each adult. Unfortunately, however, we see that participation in primary education has not increased particularly since the introduction of the law. The whole 70 pst. the municipalities report that they have not had a single majority language participant in primary school education for adults. This is scary because we know that there are a large number of people who lack skills at this level. Here, we believe that much better means are needed, precisely to stimulate this group to strengthen its basic skills. It does not stop sending information brochures to someone who does not control reading. We are convinced that if conditions are set up for the individual and the employer are stimulated to provide the necessary support, it may mean that we can get more people up to a level where they can work much better in everyday life. Based on the position in the matter, the letter from the finance minister and the comments from the majority, one would think that only the company would benefit from such a promise of knowledge. But just think about how being able to master both reading and mathematics would lift the individual person in everyday life! Imagine how everyday life changes when a bank suddenly reads and understands a rental contract or a loan letter! Think of how it will lift the person who can fix his household budget because he is now able to sum up the fixed expenses! There can be no doubt that this will benefit individuals and society as much or more than it will benefit the company where they are employed. We also have an increasing group of adults who do not have advanced education and who do not have the right to do so. And the rate is increasing for every year. The government did a good job in the spring, where the 1978 rule was removed, but it was replaced by a 25-year rule. A unanimous opposition was in favour of removing the age limit in respect of the right to secondary education. If we mean something about lifelong learning, in our opinion, we cannot have such an age limit. The responsibility for real competence assessment lies with the county council today, and it is therefore very important to cooperate well with the county council and the labour market in order to facilitate and adapt training provision to this group. It may seem as if there is a certain mix of terms when a reader reads the letter from the Minister of Finance and the committee setting. The proposal seeks to stimulate the strengthening of the employee's formal competence, which leads to a particular education, and perhaps a given authorisation. It's not about real skills, which is the competence we often find in professionals or self-learners. The Progress Party sees an even better interaction between educational institutions and business through the introduction of such tax incentives. Both secondary schools, colleges, colleges and universities should be natural partners of industry in raising human capital and thus strengthening its competitiveness. Many adults with basic skills prefer to increase their own skills in terms of work rather than school-based training, the Government of St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 on early efforts for lifelong learning. Furthermore, the Stoltenberg government in its government statement says that they will work for continuing training, with funding from both employers, workers and authorities. We're taking these signals seriously, and we're taking those people this is, seriously. Therefore, we address the proposal to introduce tax incentives for enterprises that contribute to measures that strengthen the employee’s formal competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e74	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e77	We share the views of the proposers on the importance of raising the level of skills in the labour market. Under the previous government, the Bondevik II programme introduced a new opportunity, which is a grant scheme for enterprises that just want to give employees basic skills in, among others. reading and writing. This programme was later renamed the Basic Skills Programme in the world of work. It was budgeted for 2008 with approx. 37 million. kr to the measure. That's not enough, but at least a little bit on the way. We believe that it is important to point out that there are challenges not only with raising skills in the workplace but also with the basic skills. It is true, as the previous speaker, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, who is also the proposer, said that there are 400,000 people in Norway with very poor reading and writing skills. It's also the case that very many of these are out of work. At that time, measures need to be taken that also reach this group. Maybe it's the most important group. No one should suspect me not to have a subjective, positive view of everything that tastes of tax incentives for business. I definitely have. I think the intentions of the proposal are good. But I'm a little more uncertain about whether tax incentives here are the most effective and effective means of action. It must not be that under scarce resources tax incentives and resources may be used on those who are the strongest of the weak, while there will be less to the weak of the pure transfers. But again, we are positive about the intention of this, and will not go into the majority's proposal not to approve it at all. We propose that the Minutes be annexed, and I take up the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e86	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e89	In SV we are very positive about continuing training of employees. There is a clear need in society to make sure that there is a high level of continuing education. This is also set out in the Soria Moria Declaration, where the level of ambition is quite high. In the care of the elderly, it is 30-40 pst. who do not have formal competence in order – they are unskilled. We have a high proportion of people working in Norwegian kindergartens who do not have proper vocational training. We have many teachers who need more post-graduate education than they do today – there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget. As both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party and the Left point out in their comments, and as we have also mentioned on repeated occasions, today's training efforts are quite unevenly distributed in relation to competence – in favour of those who already have the highest skills and the highest wages. I am not uncertain about, as the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are, about tax incentives is the best measure. I am quite clear that there is a bad response to how to spend money – for several different reasons. Firstly, tax incentives do not mean that we are able to do anything about raising in the public sector. If we were to do a real lift, for example. for the enhancement of the competences of the care of the elderly, this would have been wasted. Instead, the money should be transferred to direct transfers to empowerment in the care of the elderly and the nursery sector and to the training of teachers, which I think we are all concerned with is important. It is a small targeted and expensive measure, because the companies that are currently in business and which invest a lot of money in what is profitable for the company already have good incentives to do so, precisely because it is a good idea to do so for their own business. We would first start spending a lot of money on giving tax relief to exactly those companies without getting anything left for it – so we wouldn't get more for it than what we already get today. So, as you can see, it's a little targeted action. We have major public challenges in obtaining formal competence for people who do not have it today and for whom we would not be able to do anything about this measure. I think, quite frankly, that if we are to get the promise within the labour market that the proposers here make, this is something we cannot do unilaterally by the state, but something we have to do – just as the Soria Moria Declaration says – in dialogue with the other social partners. Finally, I just want to say one thing. I think that the proposers think creatively about one point – which they will have to pay to do, even if I think the proposal that lies here is not a good thing – and it is in relation to just trying to ensure that the education and skills that are filled into the individual workers become a competence on which formal papers are also given. I support that intention. That's a good intention. But I think the proposal that lies here is expensive and little targeted. That is why we do not support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e102	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e118	The case concerns proposals by the depositors Hans Olav Syversen, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Dagfinn Høybräten and Ingreig S. Sørfonn to increase the access of savings banks to the disposal of profits for non-profit purposes. An overall committee indicates that: «The proposers ask that «The Government shall submit a proposal to amend Section 28 of the Savings Bank Act to increase the access of savings banks to the disposal of profits for non-profit purposes with effect from 31 December 2007 at the latest.» The proposers consider, inter alia, that: increased ability to distribute gifts would counteract the so-called ‘dilution effect’.’» An overall committee clarifies that savings banks are navigable institutions and that the equity of basic fund evidence banks is composed of the measurand capital – the basic fund – and capital injected through the issuance of basic fund certificates. The Committee wishes to make it clear that the so-called dilution effect is the result of a relative reduction in the capital of the basic fund holders in relation to the mercenary capital by the dividend of the basic fund holders, while the mercenary capital becomes the return that is not distributed as gifts. The majority, the representatives of the government parties, therefore consider it appropriate to point out that such legislation is being drafted today, each new issue in a situation where the savings bank pays out relatively as much in dividends as in annual gifts for non-profit purposes will lead to a permanent deterioration of the sea-leaded capital – the basic fund – to the savings bank. The majority do not want such a development. The majority further indicates that the Government attaches great importance to ensuring the specific nature of savings banks and to facilitating competitive savings banks with a real opportunity to maintain their position in the Norwegian market. The majority refers to the answer letter from the Minister of Finance, where it says: ‘The Ministry wishes to find a combination of measures addressing the dilution effect problem in a holistic manner, as described above. the savings bank law shall also ensure that the special nature of the savings banks and the rights of the own funds are respected. In this context, for example, one also aims to assess the Framework Conditions Committee’s proposal to grant access to the establishment of a reserve fund without any requirement for a return.’;» The majority support this assessment and stress the importance of maintaining a high level of protection for the sea-led capital of savings banks, in order to safeguard its rights in the future. On this basis, the majority do not agree with the proposal. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left point out that the proposal to increase the leverage of the basic funds banks has two compelling reasons: 1. strengthening voluntary teams and community organisations throughout the country2. strengthening the certificates of basic funds as a source of financing in the market in competition with shares and thereby strengthening the possibilities for savings banks to retain certificates of basic funds as an equity instrument. These members assume that increased gift access will be included as one of the concrete proposals to counteract the dilution effect that the Ministry will send at its hearing in December, cf. attached a letter from the Minister of Finance dated 8 November 2007. These members further argue that, after a consultation round, the Ministry makes proposals for the necessary amendment of the savings bank law so that it can be dealt with in the spring session in Stortinget. The representatives of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left propose that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. In the case of the Centre Party, it is important that the framework conditions for savings banks be such as to give freedom to make a socially desirable structural adjustment, while preserving the specific nature of the savings banks, including the proper exercise of the rights of the maritime leased capital. The main feature of the special nature of savings banks is the form of ownership. A savings bank is a sea-lording institution and cannot and therefore cannot be purchased. The combination of competent management, competitive framework conditions with regard to commercial banks and the form of ownership is the reason why savings banks claim to be useful financial instruments. Regulatory regulation and associated regulations and practices for savings banks are a national issue. It is a general political recognition that countries around us do not pressure us to change the peculiarity of savings banks. Regulation of savings banks is therefore a national debate in Norway, as is the case in the European Union. Saving banks shall play a different role than commercial banks. The banking system is a necessary and important infrastructure for individuals and businesses. Private customers and SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises – are well covered by the many maritime savings banks. This contributes to healthy competition in most parts of the country. The Financial Committee agrees that any legislative changes must mean that no savings bank model must be discriminated against. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the setting-up of savings banks without a master certificate in order to enable those currently competitive in the market. This results in changes in the savings bank structure as a result of its own ability to manage and operate and its own strategic choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e167	Savings banks play a very important role in many communities, both as good donors to voluntary teams and organisations, and also by strengthening the work that takes place on a voluntary basis in municipalities. I'm actually just referring to the notes that are written. In addition to taking up the proposal from the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I do not need anything but to say that I think it is strange that, on the part of the government parties, you do not find it desirable – or think that there is too much room for it – to mention this moment in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e174	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e177	Sometimes there are cases where one with the same instrument can actually achieve a better goal in several goals – at the same time. The thing today is an example of this. The savings banks are important actors in local communities. They are sources of funding for local business and have a large population. The links between local communities and savings banks are stronger than is usual between local communities and different financial institutions. It applies equally to all types of savings banks, whether large or small, and to whatever grouping they have to listen to. The role of savings banks as contributors to voluntary work is an important reason for these strong bonds. More than $0.5 billion in pure gifts for a wide range of voluntary activities in 2006 shows that savings banks are very important partners for voluntary Norway. The special ownership structure of the savings banks makes this operation possible. But it's a paradox that it's public law and not the balance, the soundness or the profitability of the banks that limit the gift. The Christian People's Party cannot see that there are good arguments to limit banks' ability to strengthen the voluntary sector locally, as long as there are reasonable financial assessments behind the decision as to how much of the surplus can be allocated to voluntary organisations. The fact that several savings banks are currently at a gift distribution rate close to the maximum limit shows that there is a current limit and no sensible financial assessment that effectively impedes the expansion of the donations to the voluntary sector. Increased opportunities for savings banks to give gifts are an unconditional advantage for voluntary Norway. The savings banks themselves want to do so, both as part of the social responsibility strategy and in order to strengthen the basic fund evidence system by reducing the so-called watering effect. I note that the government party is most concerned about a reverse watering effect, namely that the basic fund's part of the overall balance sheet of the banks is watered down by new issues. I assume that the savings banks themselves are best placed to assess the real problem for these institutions. There is little reason to doubt that the government party views the voluntary sector as being as valuable as the Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties do. But sometimes it seemed that the government party would have more control over the voluntary sector than we would like in the Christian People's Party. Therefore, there is a stop in the gift-delivery scheme, because it is the purpose the donors support, which is strengthened – and it is not necessarily the same purpose as the red-green want to support. I'm a little surprised if there's not a bit of the same control system that is behind the resistance of the government's party in the setting to demonstrate to as good a suggestion as increasing the ability of savings banks to give gifts. But there's hope in hanging strings. Once the Ministry of Finance has completed its prioritized assessment of a limited case – which they have held since March this year – it may still end up with a proposal to increase the chances of giving gifts. Then I hope that the process can go so smoothly that the government will come back to the spring session with a proposal if necessary legislative change. It just burns up the volunteer Norway, and it burns up the savings banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e194	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e210	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State in the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e219	St. pp. No 10 is about changes in the appropriations under some chapters of the 2007 State budget. It is proposed, inter alia: entry 64, Resource-intensive users, under the Social and Health Directorate’s assistance, is set up at 185,14 million. kr. The loan allocation to regional health establishments is proposed at a rate of 800 million. kr. It is also proposed that the Ministry of Health and Welfare should be able to give up interest-free and non-deductible loans of approx. Nineteen million. SEK to, among others The Furustrand Foundation of old-age homes, Vidaråsen, Sauberad Samtun and the Kimer Foundation. The heading under Chapter 710 of the National Institute for Public Health refers to the allocation of 15 million in the 2006 budget. kr for free influenza vaccine in 2006. This meant that the Public Health Institute distributed free vaccines to risk groups, to the municipalities that had ordered such vaccines. The municipalities could charge for the vaccination. In 2007, after it was announced in the 2007 State Budget, one went back to the old system, where the vaccines were sold to municipalities for 40 kroner per month. once again, the dose and the municipalities could choose whether to charge for the vaccine and the vaccination. The aim of the scheme was to stimulate vaccination coverage to exceed 50 p.p., which was achieved. In this case, the Progress Party proposes to contribute to this for 2007, while the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre want to follow developments closely. In the opinion of the Red-Green Members, it is important that the WHO target of 75 pst. vaccination coverage in the risk groups is reached by 2010. Therefore, they believe that different measures, including those taken in 2006 with free vaccination, should be considered if this objective is not met. The Progress Party proposes to allocate 2.5 million. kr to influenza vaccine, and this should be done immediately. In cap. 732, Regional Health Enterprises, it is noted that the 2007 forecast indicates an increase in DRG score of about 1.2 pst. compared to that laid down in the mission document of the regional health establishments. It's a proposed move of 87.9 million. kr in the 2006 final settlement for input-driven financing. The main reason is the incorrect registration of day rehabilitation. The Committee points out that clear rules on ISF accounting are important in order to create predictability around annual payments, and notes that it is known that the Directorate for Social and Health, on behalf of the Ministry of Health, has carried out a review of activity-based funding. The Committee asks the Government in the context of work in progress on activity-based financing to see if the legislation in this area provides sufficiently predictable coding. The party notes that the number of patients on waiting lists has increased by 20,000 only in the last year and that the situation of hospitals is precarious. They therefore propose DKK 1 billion in increased appropriations for 2007. The pension costs are the last thing I want to discuss in this case. The cost of pensions for health enterprises is increasing by approximately DKK 3.2 billion in 2007 and by about DKK 2.2 billion in 2008 compared to the cost level used in the preparation of the state budget for these two years. The cost increase is mainly due to the fact that the wage growth in the future will be higher and the long-term interest rate level lower than previously assumed. Sylvia Brustad said in Stortinget on 27 November 2007 about this situation: ‘The government assumes that the increased pension costs shall not be included in the performance requirement for regional health enterprises neither for 2007 nor 2008.’ The Committee supports this and notes that the Government will, at the latest in the context of the revised budget, return to the impact on private non-profit institutions established within the responsibility of regional health establishments. The opposition, i.e. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, want the Government to return to the consequences for the private non-profit institutions earlier than in the revised budget, as the proposed solution, in their opinion, does not address the financial problems of the current year. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party therefore propose that the framework for regional health companies increase by 150 million. DKK to cover the increase in pension expenditure of private non-profit hospitals for 2007. In addition, the Committee has no specific comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e250	First, I would like to thank the Mandt-Bartholsen for a very good account, which also took into account much of what the Progress Party has agreed to. I will nevertheless attach some words to the matter. First to the joyous one, which probably many have enjoyed this before Christmas: the Village Foundation, the Gospel Centre of Pinsevenne, the Sollia Collective, the Renåvangen and the other collectives were given up a debt of 19 million. kr. That was probably a bit of a Christmas present! In addition, the Progress Party takes a very serious view of the current situation of health businesses. There is a lot of evidence that already implemented cuts go beyond the patient offer. Budgetary discipline is important, but it is also important that there is consistency between the framework and what is expected, and there is much to suggest that this is not the case. Health businesses must have realistic frameworks that enable them to comply with the order issued by the Council of State, both in the context of the somatic environment, where we see an increasing need for treatment, and a continuing escalation in the field of psychiatry, research and also for maintenance and investment. In the past, Health East was highlighted as an example of the fact that strict priorities are being pursued. Much of the reason was that the board and the management there focused heavily on the economy and wanted to show that it succeeded with scarce frameworks. However, this has probably also been about deprioritising maintenance and investment, and implementing continuous cuts and changes that have given many employees insecurity, as the patients have also noticed. In this connection, I would like to refer to the essay in Dagbladet last Sunday, where it is quite clear that the patients perceive the Hospital Østfold as the worst in the country. It also got a very low score. This result should be noted by the healthcare provider when meeting with the Management Board. As I see it, some of the main reasons for this poor result are that there have been steady savings that have led to redundancies and the closure of departments and that new projects have been postponed. The situation related to Health South-East, which is described in the Dagbladet, where it is suggested that approx. 700 can lose their job, and the statements in the Medisin Day show how much the financial cuts that are now proposed can be, and should get more people to think seriously about what might happen. All proposed cuts within, inter alia: The Rikshospitalet and Ullevål University Hospital are completely unacceptable, as this will affect seriously ill patients who cannot be put at the back of an ever longer patient queue. All health businesses are struggling, and the large deficits that once again emerge at the end of the year make the situation critical. There is no doubt that the tight economy is the direct reason why the waiting lists for treatment have increased dramatically in the last year. When the increase is as high as 20,000, it is necessary to cut back on increased activity to meet the need for treatment. If not, the queues will continue to increase. Hospitals face a previous deficit, nor will they be able to meet the expectations of the coming year. The signals now coming from the hospital sector throughout the country show that further cuts and contractions and closures are planned, and this will undoubtedly affect patients next time. Even if the directors say something else, the cuts won't do it, they'll do it at the seventh and last. The Progress Party therefore proposes DKK 1 billion in additional appropriations for 2007 so that patients are not hit and hospitals can more easily maintain proper operation. The situation in relation to pension costs for private non-profit hospitals is also something we have to take seriously. Governments have announced that this will be assessed in the context of the revision, but it will be the most recent and, in the worst cases, may lead to the bankruptcy of several hospitals. The Progress Party is concerned about the difficult situation of the private non-profit hospitals and has therefore proposed 150 million. kr to this in the setting. We see no reason to postpone this allocation, with the consequences it can get. Many influenza is affected each year, and for those at risk, the disease may have long-standing and serious consequences. This often leads to hospitalizations, pneumonia and, in the most serious cases, to early death. Older and coal frames are particularly vulnerable groups, and they are increasing in number. Today, there are very many minimum pensioners who are struggling to cope with the daily expenses of house, electricity, firing, food and medicine. It is therefore important that the influenza vaccine be made available as far as possible to those at risk. It's quite amazing that the government, which gives the impression that they're concerned about the weakest, seems to be fine that this vaccine costs 250 kroner, when they know at the same time that many people can't afford to take it. The Progress Party therefore proposes 2.5 million. kr for this risk group, so that they can receive free vaccination. Otherwise, the Progress Party supports the proposed changes in the appropriations and warns that we will subsidiaryly support the proposal promoted by the Right and Left. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e278	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e281	Let me first address the proposal from the Right and the Left, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Last year, the Health and Care Committee, Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital, visited here in Oslo, and had a very interesting and instructive review. As usual during such visits, a round of questions was concluded, and one of the committee members asked the hospital director how he could explain that there is always such a good order in the economy of the private non-profit hospitals, while public health establishments almost always have significant deviations in terms of increased expenditure relative to the budget. The director, with a slight smile on his face, replied, ‘We can go bankrupt, they can’t.’ There is a very important reality in what is being updated through the change proposition we are dealing with today. There are, as usual, relatively modest changes in the proposition in terms of the figures under the various items, but at one point there is a rather dramatic change. It is pointed out that for 2007, pension costs increased in the amount of DKK 3.2 billion and an increase in pension expenditure is expected to be SEK 2.2 billion in 2008. It's significant numbers. In the case of health enterprises, this problem is solved by exempting this amount from the performance requirement. As a result, no increased accounting burden is created. This solution is not possible in the case of private non-profit hospitals, which fall under the responsibility of regional health establishments. As a result, there is a quite significant problem, which affects the risk of bankruptcy, simply because private non-profit hospitals do not have very large margins to go on, nor can they choose the solution to significantly weaken their equity, because it will also have very unfortunate consequences in the long term. Governments have commented on this several times here in the main hall, and have used the same standard formula each time, that the Government will come back with a proposal for a solution, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget next year. The problem with this is that it is very difficult for private non-profit hospitals to live with the uncertainty up to almost halfway out in the coming financial year as regards expenditure incurred for the current year, 2007 and with the same uncertainty as regards the 2008 operating result. That is the background to the proposal that I have raised on behalf of the Right and Left, where we ask the Government to come back to the Stortinget by 1 March 2008 with proposals for a solution. We believe that it must be absolutely possible to find a solution by then, and we believe that the ideal private hospitals have a reasonable requirement to be informed about the economic realities they have to deal with for the financial years 2007 and 2008. Significant uncertainties relate to the economic situation of health establishments in general. It was pointed out by the representative of Giltun. I think for my part that the answer to that can't be thinking about a number -- 1 billion or some other number -- and adding it to it right now, because the uncertainty isn't really going to be much less of it. And the challenges health businesses face are of a structural nature, which probably doesn't change very much with some hundreds of millions from or to. Structural problems need to be solved, and health care businesses need to find a form of financial management that allows them to stay within the spending frameworks adopted by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e298	Still reports of cuts in hospital services due to a stressed economic situation cause concern. We hear there's a $300 million saving on Ullevål. kr and that there is a reduction in important medical treatment. In the news, employees warn that in the worst case this could lead to death because patients will not get the help they need and that waiting time for treatment will increase. In the Rikshospitalet there is a proposal to cut 700 heart operations, it's said. The Medical Association has made calculations that show cuts of a total of DKK 1 billion in the Eastern region. After we have just completed the state budget treatment for 2008, where large sums have been allocated to hospitals, and we are now dealing with the ageing of the 2007 budget, the question of what is needed to ensure that patients receive equivalent and good treatment throughout the country. How can we avoid a call for cuts in treatment provision, which create anxiety and insecurity? So we see it every year. This autumn, there has been a growing focus on what is happening in hospitals — how are services organised, how does the management of hospitals work? This is particularly updated after the aggregation of Health South and Health East. It appears that there are demanding measures to be taken, and that the demolition of what someone called the Berlin Wall in Oslo, along Ring 3, is still not done in a sweep. In the 2006 hospital input-driven financing bill, 88 million have been paid. NOK too much. One of the consequences of this is that treatment services in the South are proposed for health care companies, because the operation has been based on these payments. The board meeting in Sørlande Hospital today deals with a proposal for the closure of Mandal Hospital, a closure that could not possibly be in line with the Soria Moria Declaration. It is dramatic when the miscoding of treatment as I can see affects which hospitals to operate. Reports from both the Medical Association and the Directorate for Social and Health point out that the economy controls both the priority and the quality of hospitals at the level of the department. In the context of the budgetary procedure, the Christian People's Party has proposed that the Government should modify the financing of hospitals in order to avoid the fact that financial management is ahead of patient needs. When reports of cuts and cuts in hospitals come on a continuous basis during these days, it is also important to focus on some of the reasons, namely how activity growth and wage developments in hospitals have been in recent years. Labour costs in hospitals represent a significant proportion of expenditure. At the same time, we can read that many doctors are hired annually in Norwegian hospitals. According to Dagens Medisin in August 2006, hospitals break the law by recruiting more doctors than they are allowed to. It was shown in 2006 that some enterprises employing 40–50 people are overly ill, together with nearly 200 doctors at national level. This leads to increased expenditure. We don't know to what extent this happened in 2007. In this way, it is also assumed that there may be both management and management problems related to the hospital sector throughout the country. The private non-profit hospitals to which the representative Inge Wohnung showed such thorough evidence are in a critical phase in terms of the economy and the coverage of increased pension costs. Today’s Christian People’s Party, together with the Advance Party, proposes that the Government allocate 150 million. DKK to cover the increased pension expenditure of these hospitals for 2007. We know that several hospitals are threatened with bankruptcy and are deeply disappointed to have to wait for clarifications from the Government until, in the worst case, May next year. Governments must ensure that the financial situation in hospitals does not affect patient treatment. Patients who need help have to get it when they need it, and the sick have to get help first. I would like to ask the Council of State to guarantee that all of these cuts that are to go beyond the patient offer must be stopped. I address the proposal I referred to, and in other words, the Christian People's Party will support the proposal from the Right and the Left – if our proposal were to be voted down in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e319	You never know. The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e324	I should like to make a few comments about the increase in pension costs, especially for private and non-profit institutions. There has been a lot of focus on the issues, and the focus has been on the big private – Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital, Diakonhemmet and Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital. However, the challenges associated with increasing pension costs also apply to many others. This applies to many small and smaller hospitals, to drug treatment institutions, rehabilitation clinics, child protection measures and others that are run on an ideal basis. At least they're likely to have at least the same challenges as the biggest ones, which we're talking about in the media. Therefore, it is important that the Government comes up with a solution as soon as possible. Waiting for the revised national budget, in the view of the Left, is too late. This is why the Right and Left have come up with the proposal that Inge Wohnung has drawn up and referred to, asking for the Government to come up with a proposal to solve the challenges related to pension costs by 1 March 2008. A signal from the Council of State that such a deadline will be taken into account will provide the necessary comfort for the private non-profit health institutions. I'm excited what the Council of State will signal in its article here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e333	I first want to say, to the general situation in our hospitals, that the representation we often get in the media and in other ways, is that it's basically just cut. There is no doubt that several of our hospitals have challenges both now and next year. But I also think it's important to come up with the reality that is. In fact, from 2002 to 2008, around 35 billion more have been given to hospitals in Norway, we have employed about 10,000 new year’s work – it’s about like the entire Ullevål hospital – and a lot more people are being treated. Fortunately, more are also waiting for a shorter time. Instead of being cut, it might well be that the growth in some contexts is not going to be as large as some expect. It's something other than cuts and cuts. There have been recent signs that the economic situation in some hospitals in Health South-East has worsened in the last month. I take that very seriously, and I have therefore today had a meeting with the management of Health South-East. There will be a new meeting on Wednesday, to have a follow-up meeting on the economy in this region. I have asked for a separate account of that situation by Friday this week. I am seaswishly very busy securing all patients throughout the country, but also the patients in this part of the country, and that they are well cared for. I also think it is important to stress that we are now in a budgetary process in many of the country's hospitals. That means that many of the proposals made in the media a day are not the ones that are going to be adopted. We see that many times when the final budgetary decisions are taken. I also believe that there is reason to be cautious about frightening seriously ill people that they will not receive treatment, or that people will die. It is said that people who are sick and seriously ill should receive the necessary treatment at the right time, including in this part of the country. I believe, like the representative, that all health companies must learn to deal with the framework that the Stortinget provides. There are things that indicate that not everyone does it, by e.g. is employed many more people than there is money for. We must end this, because if we are to get what the representative also points out, it is clear that everyone has to deal with the decision of the Storting. It is fundamentally undemocratic to do something else. Then I want to say to the representative of Davøy regarding Mandal, that I have given notice to my system, Health South-East, that if the change that they have now proposed locally – because it is local – at the Southland Hospital, leads to a significant change in the patient offer, it should be seagoing first to Health South-East and then to the Ministry of Health and Care. Once again, here's not something that's decided, but there's a lot going on in different debates a day. I take it most seriously that there are challenges in many places in the country, but I also think there is a reason not to paint that picture as black as sometimes can get the impression when a reader reads some media essays. So to another important discussion, and it's about the pension costs of the private non-profit hospitals. I am taking, as I have said before, very seriously. We're working on high pressure to find some solution to this. It is also true that the pension costs in isolation do not have a liquidity effect, but there is no doubt that it will lead to a deficit in the accounts both in 2007 and 2008 if no solution is found. Much of the equity, as several speakers have said, will be lost, and they will lose creditworthiness. But I have no other answer today than what I have said in the last days we have discussed this. We work seriously and properly with it and have close dialogue with them. We will come back to the Stortinget as soon as we have a proposal on how to solve it, and it will be late, as I have said, in the revised national budget. In the case of vaccines against seasonal flu and the proposals of the Progress Party, 2.5 million. kr very little if the purpose is to vaccinate everyone at risk, if someone really meant anything about it. So we're talking about a risk group of about 900,000. With the proposals of the Progress Party, it will be around 62 000 doses. It's quite far from what's at risk. I honestly believe that the municipalities have the opportunity to pay 40 kroner for each vaccine. It's good preventive health work, and that way they can also save a lot on people who have to be at home and help people with pneumonia or other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e356	In its statement, the Council of State states that health businesses have to deal with the framework adopted by the Storting. But it is also that in such a decision there are also some unknown factors. The search message level is one of them. When we know that there is an improvement in efficiency and restructuring in Health Norway that is very large, and we know that there is a great likelihood that there will be a level higher than today that will affect both the employees and, in particular, the patients, can the Council of State guarantee that in 2008 the level of illness does not exceed what we have had in 2006 and 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e361	I can't do that. What I can guarantee is that the government is very concerned about getting a lower sick leave in a Norwegian hospital. I think it is quite possible to get it done, too, not least by playing with the employees. In those conversion processes that necessarily have to be carried out in hospitals more or less all the time – among others. on the basis of technological developments, better processes and greater involvement of employees are needed than is sometimes the case today. I also believe that there are sometimes quite simple grips that are needed to get sick leave down. So I believe that when our hospitals now have about 84 billion kroner at their disposal next year, it is both run and is fully possible to run a good health care in Norway where all people throughout the country are assured to get good offers of good quality when they need it. But there are some changes that need to be made, including: Because we have to get an even better division of labour. The answer to this challenge is not only to give more money – it is, but not only that – but also the way we run hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e370	The Council of State refers to an increase in the economy of health businesses, and it is quite right that they have received a lot of money in recent years. At the same time, she points out that there may be lower growth than expected to maximise crisis. It probably isn't. A proposal to cut 450 psychiatric beds in the Oslo area is quite dramatic. We already have a lack of measures, including: for the severe long-term psychiatry patients. But then to the question -- the first was just a comment. This year, the size of the population has also granted more money for patient treatment in 2008. It has been specified by the Council of State that it has been important, and she has included it in the draft budget. My question is: why can't the Council of State then require health companies, in the situation we're in now, that they don't get cut off in patient treatment, because there's fresh resources here, instead of asking for an explanation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e377	In the case of psychiatric beds in Oslo, this is a recording that comes at the beginning of the merger, the capital process, and it's just one of very many recordings that will come in the next few years, where Health South-East has announced that they will now have an inclusive process and conclude next year. I'm very concerned that people with mental disorders will get an even better offer than they have today. Things can probably be organized in other ways, but at least I will not go out today and shut down or look up one or the other matter. Now those who are set to do the job in the first place have to do it. With regard to the situation in Health South-East in particular, where there has now been an economic deterioration, I have asked for an explanation, because I see this seriously. That is why I do not want to go in and comment on some proposals that are now hovering in the air before decisions are taken. But it has been added to increased treatment in general, that we are going to treat more people next year. But in some health businesses, for example, there are a challenge for some to hire people, and others to be responsible for the budgets. This must be stuck in a pile. That's the kind of control we have to put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e386	I heard very well after the Council of State spoke about the financial situation of the private ideal hospitals, to see if she could possibly be drifting in the right direction regarding the deadline. However, there was nothing other than the wording previously used by the Council of State: at the latest in the revised national budget. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State if she understands that those responsible for these hospitals have significant problems living with the uncertainty in practice throughout the first six months. The size of the budget will not be revised until mid-June, so in practice it will be half a year in 2008 without knowing what the accounts for 2007 will look like and without knowing what the outcome of the 2008 budget year will be. Does the Council of State understand that this is a very little satisfactory situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e393	I have a great deal of understanding that the private non-profit hospitals, in view of pension costs, are in a difficult situation. I would like to emphasise again that they do good patient care for us. Many people depend on the offer they can make. I believe the representative's salary should be careful to interpret where I am drifting or not drifting. I would like to emphasise once again that when we say ‘the second’, it does not mean that it has to come into the revised national budget. This may also mean that it may come earlier. I am fully aware that this is a serious, demanding situation. We are working under pressure with it, and we will come back as soon as we have a proposal for a solution to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e400	The council said in its speech that she had a meeting today about the worsening economic situation in Health South-East, and that there should be new meetings already on Wednesday. So here it's clearly serious for this health giant. It is easy for structural interventions to resolve the financial management of Health-Noreg. The combination of Health South and Health East to Health Biggest was such a structural grip. The question is, is the government council of the opinion that making such big giants is a successful grip? Or does it just hurt worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e407	I feel absolutely sure that the decision to merge the two health regions is right, because we need to free up more resources, both human and economic – to not double the number of things, to not go in the backguards instead of operating and treating people. We also need to get more specialists around the country. So I'm absolutely sure of that decision. With regard to the new information on the economic situation in this region, which seems to be deteriorating, it is something I take most seriously. That is why we have had a meeting today, we will have a new meeting on Wednesday and we will get a statement on Friday. One of the things I think we see – not especially in this region, but in general – is that there is too much of it that some servants and others are responsible for the budget. It must be that those who employ people are also responsible for the budget. It is not possible to hire many more people than you have money for. We've seen it in another health region for a short time, and I'm going to tighten the grip differently in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e414	I want to address this with the influenza vaccine, because, as we heard from the case rapporteur and also from the Council of State, it seemed that it is not very important that those at risk were given this vaccine, and that this should be reviewed in a few to three years' time. Now it is the case that municipalities have had a much tighter economy, and most people now believe that there is a decline in income. Then it becomes a little special to hear that the Council of State expects the municipalities to be able to take this cost. It can be difficult for many municipalities, and it will also be quite random who gets the vaccine. The result for those who do not take the vaccine and who are at risk can be quite dramatic. This can mean long-standing serious illness and can also lead to death for many. We get more and more of the older ones, and we know that there are a lot of people who have COLS. How has the Council of State intended to ensure that the municipalities take this responsibility? Or will she wait for three or four years and see the result, what will this lead to for many?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e421	I mean, the influenza vaccine is very important. One of the reasons we put in the money that would stimulate the municipalities to buy more vaccines to increase the proportion of those who take it is precisely the prevention, not least for older people. So it's true that something's gone down this year, it looks like. When I said what I said instead, it was because I believe that if the municipalities have to pay 40 kroner for a dose of vaccine, they will be able to earn it many times, and very quickly, by preventing people from getting sick and one then having to go on with more home care and more home help to people. I will sailfully on behalf of the Government following this development very carefully. We have a goal, to which we have also joined through the World Health Organization, that we should have a higher coverage of this. But I believe that if the Advance Party were concerned that many more in this target group would get this, one would have to have spent much more than 2.5 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e426	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e430	It was a previous post from the representative Laila Davøy that made me take the floor now at the end. I'm just going to come with you, for the record, what the health service in West Agder is and has been like. The representative Laila Davøy himself was in a government that closed Farsund Hospital in the previous period. At the same time, they let Mandal hospitals in as a department in Southern Hospital. They did so at the same time as they did with Farsund Hospital, so that the Council of State would not come to Stortinget with the matter when the local hospital in Farsund was laid down. I just think it's important to be careful to use too many words, when one now has a government that has actually for the first time since the hospital reform brings growth into the economy, and we have a government that rates in the public sector, when the representative then sits in a government that has actually shut down local hospitals, and has turned local hospitals into departments in some hospitals. So it's worth noting that the board of Southern Hospital today has decided not to lay down Mandal Hospital. We are, of course, very pleased with that in West Agder. So they had the opportunity because of the policies of the previous government, where Laila Davay was the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e439	We have a huge sector, and change has been before, and change is going to be, also in terms of task allocation. But it must not be as the representative of Klungland seems to say, that there is no point in doing anything, either in the previous or in the current government. It is in this government that you have a clear goal of not shutting down a local hospital. It was in that relationship that I also took up Mandal Hospital’s situation. So it is very gratifying that a decision has been made to maintain this hospital. I'm very happy about that. So a comment on some of what the Council of State said in its statement, and which I am a little surprised at, namely, that some servants, while others are responsible for the budget. In any case, it is quite perceptive and dramatic – I agree with the Council of State in that – if it is the case that there are such close shots between those who work and those who are responsible for the budget. That's completely new to me. I'm going to think that it's like in hospitals like most other companies -- I've, after all, worked in hospitals and in health services -- that when someone ends or goes out of the vicarium, you look at someone. But if it's the case that you have a blank mandate in departments or among some directors to just hire people in cabins and torments, as we say in Bergen – that's almost what the council said – then it really surprises me. I could have thought, if possible, that the Council of State said something more about this. I find it very alarming if that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e453	When the representative of Klungland talks about it being important, and he wants to record how wonderful this government has been in the area, one should realize that so you operate with summer-bound food departments in the districts, you put down or have summer-bound rehabilitation departments, and you move emergency and weekend receptions for orthopedics from the churches to Hammerfest, so that the population there gets 70 miles to go, or as far as it is from a little south of the Drammen to Snåsa. That's what this government stands for. Obviously, many people are dissatisfied with it. In Finnmark, a new batch called the Health and Care Party is established. Those who have established this party, Klungland, are representatives of your own party, the Workers' Party, who are dissatisfied with the policy of today's government. It's also the same for us, who are able to see, that we can see that there are torch trains in the churches, there are torch trains in Larvik, there are torch trains across the whole country that want to fight to preserve the local hospitals. So what I have now said did not happen under Bondevik I or Bondevik II, but it happened under Stoltenberg II.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e460	I seem to remember that some torches have gone before, before this government took over, but we are not going to have any competition about it. Exposure is good. But I don't stop wondering that the Progress Party is the foremost spokesman for not changing anything in our hospital system. I think what people and patients are most concerned about is getting good deals of good quality. Let me mention again the example that I think is very serious, and that is that one is operating colon cancer at 55 hospitals in Norway. We can't have it that way. And I can mention similar examples in other areas. We have to make changes to the quality of patients. Then to the representative, Davøy. I don't have to be interpreted in that it's a general picture that it's a blank mandate for someone to hire and someone is responsible for the budget. But we have e.g. seen that in Health North, about which the Stortinget is briefed, there were not long ago employed many more than it was coverage for. We see something of the same now in Health South-East. It is clear that then there is reason to tighten the grip further, because it must be that those who employ also have responsibility for the economy. So this is just one example of what challenges we're facing, and what we're working on right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e474	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1539]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e482	Then Stortinget will go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e520	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e927	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Entra Eiendom AS conducts a property acquisition process within a reasonable period of time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e953	The President proposes that the supplementary position, Innst. S. No 100 for 2007-2008 shall also be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e976	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, during the debate has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess the possibilities for allowing municipalities to set a higher rate of municipal property tax on the most expensive dwellings and leisure properties.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1015	Proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘Document No. 8:77 [[2006-2007]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote. The President assumes that the Right and the Progressive Party support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1043	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, from Jørund Rytman, on behalf of the Progress Party This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the consequences of including municipal enterprises in the ordinary VAT code, including any additional costs for the municipal sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1070	The proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left is supported. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the revised national budget in 2008 with assessments and proposals for a system that neutralises the VAT burden on health businesses and central government.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1085	The proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left reads: ‘Document No. 8:84 [[2006-2007]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote. The President assumes that the Progress Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1113	During the debate, Gjermund Hagesetter has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The government asks the Government to extend the tax deduction scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations to local non-governmental organisations under certain conditions.2. The government is asking for the increase of the annual ceiling on the maximum deduction from NOK 12 000 today to NOK 15 000 from the fiscal year 2007.3. The Government asks that the payment of the annual quota to non-governmental organisations should also be covered by the tax deduction scheme.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1148	In the course of the debate Svein Flätten has put forward a proposal, proposal No. 2, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Doc. No 8:90 [[2006-2007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1161	After this vote, the vote will be taken at the next voting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1169	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. Publisher sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit the necessary proposals to classify State creditors into the ordinary system of charges in the event of late payment.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1195	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget with a view to introducing a tax incentive/tax deduction scheme for Norwegian enterprises implementing continuing and continuing training measures which provide formal competence for their employees.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1219	The proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left reads: ‘Document No. 8:108 [[2006-2007]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote. The Progress Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1245	During the debate, Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:13 [[2007-2008]] Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the inclusion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1271	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2 by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Inge Wages on behalf of Right and Left This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2007 shall be amended as follows: Cape VerdeCroner710National Public Health Institute21Special operating expenditure, may be carried over, increased, increased by 2,500 000 from NOK 284 000 to NOK 286 500 000732Regional health enterprises72Addition to Health South RHF, may be transferred, increased by 559 400 000 from NOK 10 381 201000 to NOK 10 940 601 00073Addition to Health West RHF, may be transferred, increased by 187 000 from NOK 9 800 849 000 to NOK 9 9 987 849 00074Addition to Health Middle Norway RHF, may be transferred, increased by 135 400 000 from NOK 7 293 805 000 to NOK 7 429 205 00075Addition to Health Nord RHF, may be transferred, increased by 118 100000 from NOK 6 349 885 000 to NOK 6 467 985 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1402	It is then voted on by the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2007 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner732Regional health enterprises70Assistances to health enterprises, can be transferred, can be used under items 71, 72, 73, 74 and 75, increased by 150 000 000 from NOK 3 338 021 000 to NOK 3 488 021 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e1457	It is then voted on the proposal from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting by 1 March 2008 with proposals to address the challenges of pension expenditure, including pension expenditure for 2007 for the private non-profit hospitals.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-17-2.ana.ud1278e2511	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
