ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e24	The President of the Parliament of New Zealand, Margaret Wilson, is on an official visit to Norway. She and her delegation are present at the gallery, and it is a great pleasure for me to welcome them to the Storting. New Zealand and Norway are far from each other geographically, but we are close to each other in all other ways, and that will probably confirm this visit. Welcome! Welcome! The representatives of Morten Höglund, Heidi Sørensen, Erling Sande and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. [[Applause from the Chamber]] The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Kirsti Saxi, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representatives Jan Arild Ellingsen and Per Ove Width on leave from 4 October to 10 October – both to take part in the 53rd session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Reykjavik from the Group of the Party of Presidents on welfare leave for the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen from 5 October until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Bjørn Sturla OddenFor Nordland County: Toril Ø. HanssenFor Vestfold County: Jan Fredrik Vogt3. Jan Fredrik Vogt is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e86	Toril Ø. Hanssen and Jan Fredrik Vogt are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e92	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e104	The representative, Martin Engeset, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e107	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Halleraker, Trond Helleland, Kari Lise Holmberg and myself, I am delighted to propose to take the waterways into the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e112	The representative of Trond Helleland will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e116	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Øyvind Halleraker and myself, I am delighted to propose the introduction of a minimum threshold for reasphalting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e121	The representative of Inge Wohnning will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e124	On behalf of the representatives Martin Engeset, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I am delighted to make proposals for measures to ensure faster health care and reduce sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e129	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e132	On behalf of the representatives of André Oktay Dahl, Jan Tore Sanner, Kari Lise Holmberg, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and myself, I am delighted to propose better preventive measures, earlier and clearer responses to children and young people at risk of developing a criminal track.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e137	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e149	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate will be opened with an intervention by the Prime Minister of up to 20 minutes. Then each of the opposition lots receives an article of up to 10 minutes. Following these insertions, up to five lines are given access to a row of lines. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, followed by a row of up to three lines. In addition, 49 posts of up to 5 minutes are allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 18 posts, the Party of Twelve eleven posts, the Right Seven posts, the Socialist Left Party 4 posts, the Christian People's Party 3 posts, the Centre Party 3 posts and the Left Three posts. After two of the five-minute submissions from each group, access is given to a row of up to three rows. Finally, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the posts allocated, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e160	Last week I had the pleasure of attending the UN General Assembly in New York. The issues discussed there are among the most important issues of our time — the environment and development. The most brutal expression of the world's injustice and the world's poverty is that nearly ten million children die every year. Extra meaningless is this because very many die of diseases they could easily have been rescued from. Cheap vaccines, mosquito nets against malaria and breast milk can save millions of baby lives. Children’s health is closely related to their mother’s health. Every minute, a woman dies in pregnancy somewhere in the world. We cannot imagine the despair and fear of a woman feeling of losing her own life the same day she brings a new life to the world. In Norway, the probability of a mother losing her life in childbirth is 1 to 3000. In sub-Saharan Africa, one in 16 women will lose their lives in childbirth. In the world's poorest country, such as Afghanistan and Sierra Leone, one in six women will end their lives while they give birth to a child. In many countries, the most dangerous day of a woman’s life is the day she gives birth. They bleed in their heels, and they die of infections they get from dirty equipment. More midwives, sterile instruments and antibiotics will save millions of women's lives. Children and mothers die in closed rooms. In many places prejudice and denial in itself are a cause for death. Women's health is not perceived as important enough. Openness and attention will save lives. Norway has taken the lead in stepping up efforts by the world community to combat infant and maternal mortality. It's about more money, about spending money better, and it's about more attention and more transparency. It is a great strength for Norwegian efforts that there is a broad political consensus on it, as is the case, among other things. expressed the fact that the representative Dagfinn Høybråten is on the board of the Global Vaccine Fund and participated in the launch of the Global Health Campaign in New York last week. A summit on climate was held in advance of the UN General Assembly. It is in itself important that such a meeting be held because it contributes to increasing the political pressure to reach a new international agreement on reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. It is urgent to reach a new agreement. More countries in Africa are hit by drought, and the police are melting even faster than the researchers first reported. Norway, together with the EU and some other countries, is a driver of international climate change work. We believe that a new international climate agreement, inter alia: must be based on the following principles: 1st@item: inlistbox Global warming shall not exceed 2 degrees. If the temperature rises more than this, we have to assume that it initiates self-enhancing processes in nature. The development may come out of control.2. World greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced by at least 50 pst. by 2050. It will require a much more extensive and tougher agreement than today's Kyoto agreement. The new agreement must have broad global participation; all the large emitters must participate. In addition, important sectors such as international aviation and international shipping need to be included in a new climate agreement.3. The rich countries, those primarily responsible for the climate problem, need to finance most of the emissions reductions. We must therefore pay for both measures in our own countries and pay for measures in poor countries. That is what this climate quota is all about. It's not about buying yourself free, it's about making up for yourself. Market forces are also very poor in environmental policy, but they are excellent servants of environmental policy. The market must be regulated and governed. It must cost to release greenhouse gases. Similarly, the reduction of CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions must be made economically viable. Therefore, CO2 must receive a price. We will work for a global climate market with a common price for greenhouse gas emissions. The Government’s climate communication is based on these principles. The government will ensure reductions in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions through many different instruments, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t accession to the EU ETS – this will make it profitable for industry to reduce emitters rather than double the investment in renewable energy through, among others. Enovanye building regulations that ensure lower energy use in buildings – building costs may be more expensive but heating costs will be reduced on rail – rail investments have already increased by 50 p.m. a more environmentally friendly tax system This and many other measures will ensure that we reduce emissions in Norway by about half to two thirds of the targets we set by 2020. In addition to significant measures taken at home, the Government is committed to taking responsibility for large-scale emission reductions in other countries. In this way, we achieve greater and faster reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, while transferring capital and technology to poor countries. This will make it easier to combat poverty and strengthen the health of mothers and children. In the Government's Climate Change Communication, we strengthen the commitments for Norwegian climate policy: Before the climate notification was submitted, Norway’s climate objective was to increase emissions by 1 pst. until 2012. Now we're going to increase the Kyoto obligation by 10 pst. until 2012. This is especially important because early cuts give much greater effect than late reductions. Before that, there were no objectives beyond the period of the Kyoto Agreement until 2012. Now there is a consensus that by 2020 we will reduce global emissions equivalent to 30 pst. of Norway’s emissions. This will be done both through interventions in Norway and through interventions in other countries. Now it is agreed that Norway will become a carbon-neutral country. Some are afraid that it will be too expensive for the world to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To that there are two things to say. Firstly, the cost of not acting is far greater than the cost of acting. The damage caused by climate change is going to be much higher than the cost of implementing measures to avoid climate change. Secondly, costs are reduced significantly if we act quickly and apply measures where they are most effective. Two years ago, the country received a majority government, a government with power of action and that will be accountable to the voters. By the half-way we see that we have come a long way in many areas. We have given the country a new direction – with more community and more justice. The fundamental difference is that we have chosen common rather than tax havens. During the previous government there were cut and tight times, especially in Municipality-Norway. By stopping Bondevik II's proposals for tax relief, we have provided 50 billion more for schools, kindergartens, care and other important purposes in the four-year period. We implement what we promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. We're on track, but we're not on target. We have to move on. We need to ensure full babysitting. We're going to renovate school, care and health care. On Friday we will present a follow-up to the care plan 2015, where we will, among other things, strengthens the care of the elderly through a new investment grant to nursing homes and homes and increases efforts towards elderly people with dementia. We're going to carry out the promise of knowledge at school, expand the number of hours and work for the provision of homework for all children. We're going to create an inclusive society and equalize social differences. Free core time in kindergarten, own minority counsellors in schools with many immigrant backgrounds and reinforced Norwegian education will make Norway a richer and more diverse society. Working for everyone and working for everyone is our main contribution to improving the living conditions of those who have the least. The government will continue to step up research and knowledge efforts, and we will pursue a responsible economic policy to ensure work and value creation throughout the country. We are in the middle of the process of creating a better and fairer pension system. We follow up on the Stockholm pension agreement, and it is a strength for the work on pension issues that there is a broad political consensus on the principles. The contractual pension scheme is to be ensured, but it has to be reformed because flexible retirement pensions are introduced for all from 62 years of age into the population. Work is to be paid, and it is to be easier to combine work and retirement. As a first step, from 2008 onwards, the Government will remove the curtailment of pensions against income for 67-year-olds. The aim of the pension reform is to remove this curtailment for all from 2010. A major effort has been made to assess the state church system. The government will seek broad consensus in the Storting for a future organisation of the relationship between state and church. The Government will present a joint marriage law that will allow all persons to make marriages. Whom you are happy with should not limit the possibility of having a secure framework around life. The government's efforts to strengthen well-being are not only about more money and the number of places, but also about quality and content. We're going to be looking for system simplifications, get rid of unnecessary bureaucracy and dry when needs have changed. We need to streamline and renew to ensure that the offer is good and that we use the community's money as best we can. We're going to spend the big money on the big problems. But we, who are the foremost defenders of the welfare society, must also be the foremost renewers of the welfare society. We've just finished a municipal election fight. I see and hear that the political parties here in Stortinget have now shifted their eyes towards the big elections in 2009. Prior to the 2005 decision, the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party agreed on a common government option. We were three independent parties with three different programs. But we agreed to make a clear alternative to the government then. We had clarified important things to bet on, such as work, environment, school, kindergartens, districts and many other common things. But so important, perhaps even more important, was that we had also clarified the most important issues where we had traditionally disagreed, where we had traditionally stood far apart. We agreed on how to deal with foreign policy, the relationship with NATO and the EU, the level of taxation and the use of oil money. Thus, we had a credible government option that we presented to the voters before the election because we had clarified the most important, most difficult issues of disagreement between us. This cannot be said to be the case for today's opposition. The alternative to today's government is very unclear. The debate on the census is often referred to as the opposition's debate. I welcome a debate among the opposition parties on what is the alternative to today's majority rule. What issues, what positions and, not least, what lots the different government options should consist of, the voters are required to know well in advance of the 2009 elections. I look forward to a good discussion of the political differences and the political challenges of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e275	The census did not contain a single word about poverty in Norway. And even in the Prime Minister's posts now, there was no hope for all the people in our own country who have it difficult. Only in Norway are there more than 200,000 minimum pensioners living below the poverty line. In today's VG we can read about a draw in the government, where a so-called source in the government says that it was assessed there that it was a greater political gain for the government to bet on unaltered kindergarten prices than to do something for the poorest in its own country. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: is this government really so cynical in its assessment of what measures can be promoted to make life a little easier for those who have the least in a society that is otherwise characterized by a lot of well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e282	First of all, there was an important message in my post that we should do more to balance social differences. It is not least about helping those who have the least. These include: on the most important instrument, namely to reduce unemployment. Never before have more people been in paid employment in Norway than today. Unemployment has fallen sharply. The number of people receiving social assistance has been reduced. We're not satisfied with what we're going to do. That is why one of the major reforms we are now implementing is a major reform of social security and labour administration precisely to bring about a levelling-down of social disparities, helping those who have the least. With regard to the look-up in the VG, the municipal minister has made it quite clear that she has rarely seen a look-up that contains several errors. It's wrong what it says there. This government has prioritised the fight against poverty, but we have also prioritised the work of full child care coverage and cheaper kindergartens. It's an important part of the Soria Moria Declaration, which is behind all the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e289	It is such that there are many opportunities to explore the disagreements between government and opposition, between governmental parties and between opposition parties. But I want to focus on one thing that I think the voters expect of us, namely that we can agree on some of the major and important challenges ahead. One of the challenges of today's government is that it says it will seek cooperation and reconciliation with the opposition, but that it will be able to deliver little when it gets here in the hall. This fall we're going to have two test pieces on this. One is whether the Prime Minister will fulfill what he tried to say in the election campaign, that he was open to cooperation and a settlement on an obliging escalation plan for the care of the elderly. The second is whether he agrees and is going to go far to reach a climate settlement with the opposition on Stortinget. My challenge to the Prime Minister is: Is he prepared to give this harvest to take the long-term problems seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e299	I agree that even though we have a majority government that basically has a majority for all matters here in the Storting, it is an objective in some cases to try to get a wider majority. That's why I'm glad we got a broad majority behind the pension agreement. I'm glad it became a broad majority of the law on private schools. Even though the Right wasn't there, there were other parties that participated. I'm glad, as I mentioned in my post, that, for example. is a broad majority in the United Kingdom for the international commitment we make to the health of mothers and children. Then, of course, we want to reach agreement, among other things. on state churches, climate and elderly care. We're going to sit down and start negotiating about that in Stortinget. I believe the least appropriate form of negotiation is to conduct that kind of negotiations in the storeroom, in public. If we want agreement, we have to sit quietly in the Stortingen meeting room and elsewhere and try to reach agreement. We want agreement, but not in any of the cases at all costs. It must be a willingness to make real compromises, both from the point of view and from the point of view of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e306	The Prime Minister, in his speech, marked agreement with the Christian People's Party on the international fight against poverty. I wish he had put as much personal commitment into the fight against poverty nationally as I would acknowledge that he is doing at the global level. At the same time, he also announced full confrontation with the Christian People's Party regarding marriage law. I think a lot of people will notice. The Prime Minister invited broad cooperation both in the field of pensions and the State-Church. We're already on board a settlement. State-church we would very much like to join in and create a broad consensus on, so that it actually becomes a reform of the church system. That's what a constitutional majority has to do. I would like to remind the Prime Minister that in the election campaign he made a very concrete promise to the elderly and their relatives that we in the Grand Duchy will sit down, after the state budget has been presented, and make a broad and committed effort over the years in the care of the elderly. I would like to ask concretely, in the extension of Erna Solberg's line, how the Prime Minister intends to follow up that promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e315	We intend to follow that promise by presenting a plan to strengthen the elderly in the context of the state budget tomorrow, with concrete measures and also numerical measures in some areas. Then, here, as in other matters, we will invite you to discuss that plan. Then we're going to seek to reach a wider majority, conciliation, in the Storting. But once again, it's not that settlement is more important than any other consideration. It is the content of the agreement that is crucial, whether we are talking about state-church, climate, care for the elderly, private school law or other issues where we have sought to settle. We have a desire for settlement, but it's only when we sit down and start negotiating the individual points, that we see if it's possible to achieve. It is also important that the opposition in negotiations on conciliation in one case or another thinks about whether this is something they want to be in position for, because it is important that we adopt responsible and feasible things in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e320	The media have recently been characterized by new rumors and stories of corruption in one of our great industrial locomotives where the state is a dominant or big owner. We know that a few months ago Statoil admitted significant corruption and paid a staggering billion in a settlement, where they also had to admit that corruption. And it's only been a few days since we got the news that the partially state-owned airline SAS is also convicted of industrial espionage against a smaller, private competitor. There seems to be a sign that the willingness to cross borders to the illegal characterises too many of the companies in which the state is an owner. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister, with force, take initiatives against these companies to clean up, and also throughout the country's approach to its ownership, in view of the fact that this should not happen? It should be the opposite in companies where the State is the owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e328	I agree with the representative Sponheim that companies in which the state owns, and especially companies in which the state is a large owner, should make extra demands on itself to keep high ethical standards, and avoid getting into situations where one can be accused of committing illegalities. It is clearly communicated from the State to the companies. We can repeat it, find forms and ways to do it, but we're first of all concerned that, of course, all companies should respect the law. Corruption is prohibited, industrial espionage is prohibited. In addition, we believe that state companies should have a higher ethical standard than others. Many of them have also developed their own guidelines and legislation that we, as much as they, are committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e333	The Trontals have the impression that the Government wants to pursue its policy in almost all areas. It is a policy which means that we have a huge downturn in the public sector. The last thing we've heard now is that our universities have a huge decay. A lag of over 7 billion dollars leads to our universities almost at risk of collapse. The second is our infrastructure, which is due to be close to $1 billion every year. Today, we note that development director Aksnes in Vegvesenet says that next year, i.e. in 2008, less money is needed to build and maintain roads in Norway, due to the level of costs. There is too little competition, and it is simply not attractive to come to Norway and bid to build Norwegian infrastructure. It's probably because we're just patching on our infrastructure. My question to the Prime Minister is: What will the Government do now for large foreign entrepreneurs to come and build Norwegian infrastructure in large corridors and use project finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e342	Firstly, I agree that significant investment is needed in public buildings, businesses and public infrastructure. That is why this government wants to pursue the policy we have set in motion, namely to increase public investment: SEK 2 billion more on transport every year than the previous government provided, and to increase investment, for example. in hospitals. When we started the meeting, the Minister of Fisheries made his own proposal to invest in a new information technology building at the University of Oslo. So we're investing in public enterprises. One reason why we say no to tax relief is that we want to spend that money on investment in public enterprises. So unfortunately, we see that the problem now is that when it comes to very many of the investment projects we have in the public sector, there are cost excesses, and that is an expression that there is now high pressure in the Norwegian economy. Of course, we invite foreign entrepreneurs to participate in tendering in Norway. We're very concerned about it. We warmly welcome them, and if anyone has not discovered it, I say it loud and clear now: Submit a tender, contribute to competition, reduce the prices of public construction projects in Norway. Welcome!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e349	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e352	A census often becomes general, and therefore it may be more interesting for Stortinget to see the state budget coming tomorrow, if there is any news left after all the budgetary leakages that have come through the municipal election campaign. In last year's royal speech, the Government highlighted the commitment to integration. This year, this was completely omitted from the census, and it is possible that it means that the Government is now considering itself finished with the integration work in Norway. In that case, there is a gross misassessment of the state of things. Many of our new countrymen still cannot Norwegian, many children meet poorly prepared school days, and there are still many women who do not have the opportunity to experience the joy of living in a free democracy. Therefore, the Government cannot cancel the integration work. On the contrary, they should focus heavily on this. Unfortunately, there is sexual mutilation in children with a minority background. Dialogue and conversations have not proved to be very successful. There must be other means of action here. Today, therefore, the party promoting the introduction of a mandatory female health survey, precisely to detect gender mutilation, is promoting proposals. We hope to support from Stortinget for this. The government has now announced the creation of a new state exit centre in Nannestad, because it is full of Trandum, and because the government seems to be completely unfit to send people out of the country. In other words, it has become an exit queue, and we should not be familiar with this. The Trontale was also completely out of the question of measures to reduce poverty in Norway, despite the fact that this government has, on repeated occasions, spoken hotly about poverty reduction. Today, more than 200,000 minimum pensioners live below the OECD poverty line, and it is completely incomprehensible when living at the same time in one of the world’s richest countries. Many people who are permanently out of work because of illness and other suffering are struggling to meet their daily obligations. It is a meager comfort to these when the only response of the Government to poverty reduction is to facilitate more people to get into work. I agree that it is important, but for all those who do not have work as an alternative, poverty reduction is about economic benefits that make it possible to live a decent life in rich Norway. For this reason, we are also promoting proposals today to increase the minimum pension rate and to set minimum rates of social assistance in Norway. In other words, the majority today has the chance to show the power of action in the poverty debate, where the Government only talks. The government abuses the chances it has of improving Norwegian society now that our economy is at its peak. In addition, there is very little work to make Norway the modern welfare society that it should be for the future. Where is it going to be by the visions? Where does the action go? The government announced a total of 16 stories in the throne. It rarely gives concrete results. The question is whether it is due to internal disagreement in the Government or a lack of vision and implementation. For a long time, we have witnessed major economic problems in health care. Many things can be done here. Today, the Progress Party is promoting proposals to offset the current year’s operating deficit. But in the longer term, we need to create a more predictable funding system for the country's hospital. It may not be possible to choose between patient treatment and completely necessary maintenance work with scarce financial frameworks. Health businesses need to be guaranteed stable funding that distinguishes more widely between patient treatment, maintenance, equipment acquisitions and new buildings. Our strong economy gives us opportunities, not least to invest in our own future. We have to get away from the idea that road construction is a clean cost to society. Investment in infrastructure makes sense. It provides increased value creation and more efficient transport solutions. That is why we are promoting proposals for the establishment of an infrastructure fund, so that we can speed up road construction in Norway. In addition, good environmental policy is to have good traffic flows. Dismantling cows is an investment in a good environment for our children and our grandchildren. Nor do we become world champions of the environment by having the world's highest environmental taxes. Last year the government reduced the one-off charge on diesel cars to stimulate the transition from petrol cars. This year, it appears that these drivers are to be punished by the announced increase in the diesel tax. It's a direct trick. In the short term, it is best to buy allowances abroad. In the long term, of course, there's a lot we can do domestically too, like, for example. research on thorium as a source of energy and technological development. The Norwegian CO2 tax goes right into the treasury and therefore has little to do with the environment. The CO2 tax on petrol corresponds to a quota price of approx. $1,800 per year. tonnes. It's 18 times more expensive than what CO2 allowances cost internationally. The money paid in CO2 charges for air travel could cover allowances for anyone travelling by air. But instead of spending this money on environmental measures, the government is asking people to buy their own quotas, and put the money right in the treasury. We are therefore promoting proposals today to earmark the CO2 tax for environmental and energy research. I have come to understand that the Left now prefers a labor party government over a government in which the Progress Party participates. It must mean that the Left is no longer in opposition to the sitting government, that the Left's voters have now been told not to vote on the Left. In fact, those who agree with the leader of the Left can most certainly vote in favour of the Workers' Party. It'll be a better guarantee for a continued labor party government. Voted Left picker the last time Left would marry Working Party. So for those of the Left who actually want a bourgeois government, it's safest to vote for the non-socialist parties that want a change of government and that want to cooperate with each other to get it done. That cooperation wants the Progress Party to participate in, because we want a government shift in Norway after the 2009 Grand Prix elections. I noticed that the Prime Minister was talking about the need for the renewal of the public sector. I'm glad. But I hope that this will be reflected in concrete action, because the consequences of a comprehensive, expensive bureaucracy in Norway are that everything else is becoming more expensive, and not least is the consequence that people have to pay the bill for it. In addition, they get the consequences of losing more and more power over their own lives. The more comprehensive the laws and regulations we have, the more extensive the bureaucracy we have, the less the right to rule as individuals we have to make decisions about our own everyday lives. It is therefore important to reduce red tape and public administration where it is possible to do so. Therefore, it is important to release completely unnecessary and meaningless public spending on other and more important tasks, which can actually improve the well-being of Norway and give individuals greater freedom over their own lives. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister's desire to modernise society is now reflected in concrete action. After all, when Stoltenberg’s first government came into existence, a major modernization programme was announced. It was cancelled because Stoltenberg did not agree with the LO at that time on the implementation of it. It's been a long time since the last time I heard the Prime Minister talk about this. I am pleased that he has now found out again those thoughts, but I am perhaps surprised that he gets SV in the fight to reduce public bureaucracy and administration. Norway has a significantly larger bureaucracy than we should have had compared to the population. We will support proposals from the Government, which involve a fight against excessive public bureaucracy, so that we can reduce taxes and taxes and give ordinary people the right to dispose of their own lives. In conclusion, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is making today in the Chamber. I hope that the Storting uses this opportunity to demonstrate its power of action, not least in the issue of poverty reduction in Norway. Now we've been talking about this in debate after debate, in election fighting after election. Today Stortinget has the opportunity to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e395	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e400	In 2005, the Progress Party became the largest opposition party on the Stortinget after the Grand Prix elections. The representative, Siv Jensen, became the president of each party and has repeatedly taken the form of talks between the parties on the civil side, with a view to clarifying a bourgeois government alternative to today's government. In the last few days, this topic has been partly debated, not exactly in the main hall, but in various studios and media. It could have been interesting here in Stortinget to hear how the representative Jensen today looks at the outcome of the dialogue so far, and what kind of government constellation on the civil side the representative Jensen can see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e405	So far during this great period, the non-socialist parties in the Stortinget have cooperated in far more policy areas than the three current government parties could sign up at the same time four years ago. So we've come a long way. At the same time, there is a fact that no parties can be forced to cooperate with each other. But for many years the Progress Party has had the aim of working for civil cooperation. We have invited both the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to such cooperation, and I have registered that the Right Party has come to the same recognition. That's good. That means there are at least two parties among the non-socialist parties who want a government shift after the 2009 elections and who are willing to cooperate to make it happen. It is then up to the voters to decide how the Storting should be composed, and not necessarily up to us who are participating in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e412	It was interesting to hear the representative Jensen's attack on the Left in his post – the future partner. We know that Siv Jensen wanted to enter the government. She has said that the Progress Party will enter the government after the next elections if it becomes a civil majority. They cannot plan to support a government if they do not participate in that sea. Then we have received feedback, among other things. from the Left and Christian People's Party, who say it's completely out of date. Now we see that there is full civil war. Is it not true that the representative Jensen now has to admit that a bourgeois government alternative after the next elections is unrealistic and that we can declare it dead?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e419	I understand that this is obviously part of Inge Ryan's nightly dreams, but there will not necessarily be a stronger socialist majority in Stortinget after 2009 for that reason. What this is about is what kind of governance of Norway we want. The Progress Party believes as much today as we did yesterday, and before Lars Sponheim's statements, that it is desirable to cooperate with the non-socialist parties. It's solid. But we don't want to go into government at any cost. We want, in government, to implement the policies of the Progress Party as much as possible, but in understanding and cooperation with other parties with which we will then cooperate. That the Left does not want to participate in this, is a clear clarification from the Left side, but that does not mean that there is full war and full strife on the bourgeois side, as Ryan would like to present it as. That means that the left has made a clarification. Other non-socialist parties continue to aim at a government shift in 2009. This also applies to the Progress Party, which means that we can manage to establish realistic alternatives to the current government in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e424	Any government cooperation must be about the kind of policy to be pursued. In very many areas, the policy of the Advance Party stands miles from the Christian People's Party. In the 2007 draft budget of the Progress Party, the dramatic cuts in aid to the poor countries of the world were proposed. They proposed cutting agricultural transfers in a range that would have wiped out Norwegian agriculture in large parts of the country. And the Progress Party proposed cutting alcohol prices, which would lead to much greater alcohol damage than what we see today. I am not going to ask about the reasons for this policy, because we will have a great opportunity to discuss it, but I would ask: Does the Progress Party believe that their views on precisely these matters will be part of any future political cooperation in a government where the Progress Party is represented?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e434	I don't think Bjørg Tørresdal is served by the fact that we are now starting possible government negotiations between non-socialist parties. I expect that since Bjørg Tørresdal represents the Christian People's Party, it is in her interest that we go through the important issues that can form the basis for any cooperation. Then it's about starting from what you're agreed on. It is about focusing on basic values such as freedom for individuals, as freedom of choice in everyday life, as the right to choose between different school services, such as the right to have opportunities in a welfare society. In all these areas, I believe that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have a fundamental common interest. Then the question is: Does the Christian People's Party want to contribute to a government change after the 2009 elections? And if they do, what do they think is the alternative -- so that we can get a non-socialist government? The time when the Progress Party is considered to be non-existent is over. There will be no civil majority in this country without taking into account the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e439	I want to challenge Siv Jensen on ownership of Norwegian natural resources. After the judgment in the so-called ‘removable case’ fell in the EFTA Court of Justice this summer, the representative Jensen of the Daily Newspaper of 28 June this year stated that she and the Progress Party would assess the state purchase of private hydropower plants in order to ensure national control. After that time, the Government has presented a new and improved fall-back model that is just contributing to national control and to preventing private and foreign investors from purchasing Norwegian hydropower plants. My question to the representative Jensen is: Can we expect the opening of the Progress Party on the Government's solution, which ensures the hydroelectric power stations in public ownership through an improved system of return? Or will the Progress Party remain on its programme, where they will liquidate the right of repatriation and lay the country and Norwegian energy plants open to purchases from private and foreign major companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e448	I think I should remind the representative Brerk that national control is not necessarily the same as national ownership. In other words, we can make many premises for the production of energy in Norway through taxes on natural resources. So there's a lot of different ways to do this. I think it is important that the Government takes seriously the situation that has arisen in relation to the right of return, and proposes different measures for the Storting, so that we can find a lasting and good solution to this in the future. However, such a solution must first of all mean that there is no discrimination between operators in the market. Secondly, it should mean that we also have a plan for increasing energy production in Norway. We're about to get into the absurd situation that we, who produce the world's cleanest energy, still have to import coal power because we don't produce enough. It should be a bigger headache for a government that's talking about the environment, but that's not capable of producing more energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e453	Siv Jensen spent more time on the Left than on climate issues in his article in the debate on the throne. I don't know if I'm going to be honored on behalf of the Left, or if I'm going to be sorry for the environment and climate. I want at least to inform the Storting that in the last ten years, the Left has participated in governments that have replaced labor party governments, in non-socialist governments – for six and a half of ten years. For the voters, it's probably more important than any remorse from the representative, Siv Jensen. The left will also contribute to a new government – as far as we can – after the 2009 elections. But the point of changing governments is precisely to switch to a government that is leading a policy in the right direction: better climate policy, because that is what we need to solve the major climate challenges, get a multicultural society that is well-functioning and desirable, and at the same time be able to absorb increased labour immigration, and pursue an economic policy that leads to the lowest possible interest rate and does not chase industrial workplaces out of the country. That is why the Left has said that we cannot sit in any government with or support a government with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e462	I'm still waiting for the question – but it's now that when we're going to discuss government issues in Norway, we should start from a very basic assumption, and that's what the voters actually want. I record that the last left was in government, they managed to get the piece of art to get two staging representatives and three government councils. It's impressive, but it's not necessarily very much in accordance with the voters' wishes. If the voters put together the Storting in such a way that they ask for more non-socialist policies, yes, then that's what they're going to get. I think that an overall political Norway should respect much more than before what the voters say in elections. There are many people out in Kommune-Norge and shake their heads after the formation of many of the country's municipal governments because the constitution does not reflect the election results. Then, as political leaders, we have a challenge: we must respect more fully the choices made by the electorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e471	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e474	The government came to complete the covered table financially in 2005. The economy had turned upside down, the prospects for strong rise times were great. Growth is still strong, and unemployment is low. The interest rates are rising, and the exchange rate is worrying for many in the business world, but Norway is likely to have the world's luckiest government. Never has a finance minister had an easier job. Never before has any government had such a good economic base for building an even stronger welfare society that can provide both new opportunities and greater security for more and more people. In good times, we need to invest in the future, give priority to the major tasks and ensure sustainable development in the coming years. The government needs to take advantage of the unique space of action it now has, to do what it says it should do, but has never done – to spend the big money on the big problems. For the truth is that the government has prioritised what is most important, smeared the money thinly beyond to those of us who do well from before, and left the great challenges unsolved. Those who need the most well-being have got the least out of the Government. We have a government that is more concerned with making the rich poorer than with making the poor richer. Although the economy has never been as good as it is now, four years of marked decline in hospital queues and waiting time have been turned to 20,000 more queues and longer waiting times. Although the economy has never been as good as it is now, rehabilitation services have been cut, despite the fact that 700,000 people in working age are out of work and many people need rehabilitation to get back to work. Although the economy has never been as good as it is now, knowledge, research and development are being down-prioritized, despite the fact that the prerequisite for the knowledge society we will live on in the years to come is precisely a commitment to this. And although the economy has never been as good as it is now, renewable energy support schemes are so poor that even state-owned State power chooses to invest in renewable energy in Sweden rather than in Norway. One of the big problems of the government is that it puts ideology ahead of good results and happy inhabitants. Therefore, private and voluntary alternatives that could contribute to more people being treated and offered rehabilitation are being neglected. Public queues are obviously better than private ones. Publicly funded diversity in the health and care sector means, in fact, giving freedom of choice to more than those who have the most in the past. Investing for the future means, inter alia: to invest in improving the quality of public service provision in the long term. Then it is not only necessary to bet on several employees. We also need to give care workers the opportunity to strengthen their skills through continuing training, to give them the freedom to organise the offer as they think is best, and to ensure that it is attractive to work with care for the elderly and caregivers. But not least we have to measure the quality, not just the heads and hands. We have to measure, we have to evaluate, we have to give feedback, we have to publish results, we have to build a better welfare in the future. And then we have to give the caretaker both the right to exchange and the freedom to choose, not just the right to complain. Investing for the future involves, above all, focusing on knowledge, skills, research and development. Knowledge is the oil of the future. Nothing is a better investment in the welfare society of the future than to enhance the requirements and quality of primary and secondary education to higher education and universities. A kindergarten is important and good, but in the knowledge society there is no substitute for a good school. The right has pressed for more investment both in higher education and in research. The government has so much blackened it with a cut of 275 million. the appropriations for higher education and the introduction of a cutting edge in the research effort. It won't last. Not only must the cutting of rest be cancelled; a proper kick-off must be taken in order to get back on track with increased school and research efforts. I expect the government to deliver what they promised tomorrow, instead of continuing to promise more than they deliver. Indeed, the working life of the future requires that we focus more on knowledge. Because the world is changing rapidly, and we have to change with it. If not, we as a nation and our economy are going to slow down. And we're going to have less ability to help those who need it the most. Knowledge, research and development is one of the most important things that politicians can do to provide the foundation for continued growth and progress. It's about creating a school that has ambitions, dreams, and goals on behalf of all children. We cannot expect future finance ministers to have as simple a job as today's finance minister has! Future jobs require this. But we also need a good industrial policy that allows the many small and medium-sized enterprises to flourish and develop, which promotes those who dare to bet and realise good ideas, and that gives us a competitive industry with great adaptability. The answer is not to put even more eggs in the same basket, to bet tens of billions on strengthening the country's ownership of businesses it's already heavy inside. It's yesterday's industrial policy. When the head of the government's travel life initiative is protesting the government's policy for the industry, it is a sign that the government is so concerned with the large state-dominated companies that it completely forgets the head shooting in one of our main district industries, which can thus form the basis of future success companies, rural jobs and better development throughout the country. Therefore, tomorrow's industrial policy is not to do what the Government does, but to create good framework conditions, focus on knowledge, research and development, on a first-class infrastructure and a modern, competent and service-oriented public sector. If we do that, we'll arm the country for the future. There are some challenges we have in common with other countries, yes to all other countries in the world. One of them is climate change. The Prime Minister has stated that the Government has the most ambitious climate goals in the world. Now it's fine with big goals, but action is even better. Big words need to be translated into concrete actions and real results, and there is a lot to go on. The government has submitted a toothless climate announcement. Right missing are the good support mechanisms that can help us realise the enormous potential of renewable energy. We can't just be ambitious. We also need to be specific about how to cut climate emissions locally, nationally and internationally. The government scrapped a single market for green certificates with Sweden. The right believes that when we don't get it, it can be a good – but not as good – substitute to double the renewable energy fund, from 20 to 40 billion kroner, so that we increase the amount of support for alternative energy. We need to use the market in the service of the environment to make our lifestyle more climate friendly. Climate challenges are a shared responsibility that needs to be met with good national measures and committed international cooperation. There's nothing to postpone on the Prime Minister's rhetoric, but it's a long way to go before something actually happens. I think it's good that Norway buys out climate allowances, but it's never going to be anything but a supplement to real changes here at home. If we don't, in one of the richest countries in the world, be able to think, live and consume more climate friendly, what do we think the chance is that far poorer countries than Norway will be able to cope with it in the years to come? These are the big problems that I think we should work together to find good solutions. The government, in my opinion, is sadly more concerned with cleaning up ideological fabric and achieving short-term political profit than with prioritising the major tasks. Rather, we should find good solutions for the good of the people and the community – do it together in the areas where it is natural, and do it for each of us by focusing. Without focusing on the future and creating a more modern, forward-looking and, not least, knowledge-based policy, this period is abused in the world's luckiest country with the world's luckiest minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e528	I have to be allowed to say that I actually heard a great deal of wonder at this post from the representative Erna Solberg. For a moment I wondered if we lived in the same country. The husband of a negative approach to and black coloring of almost all areas of development in society is quite rare to us. Then it's good to be able to use a line in a line exchange to challenge the representative Erna Solberg: does the Right and Special Representative Solberg see a single area in our society where it's actually going well, where it actually works well under the red-green government? In a ten-minute post, there was no hint of such a thing to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e533	I have a suspicion that that line was planned before the representative Solberg heard my post. I actually started by saying that growth is solid, unemployment is low, and it goes well in the Norwegian economy. But I think this government abuses the chances that a record high tax income gives it, through the priorities it does in the budget. I think this government should be spending more on poverty. We proposed it last autumn, in the revised national budget, and in the debate before the summer here, the government representatives actually praised the poverty effort we had put into the revised national budget, which they themselves had not found room for. I think that should be a crossroads for the Hill-Marta Solberg representative. I don't think the government has much to boast about investments for the future. Cut in higher education and a year without building up research efforts, I believe that developments are going wrong in important areas of investment in the future. It goes well in the Norwegian economy, but the government abuses the chances.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e540	Child poverty is the worst form of poverty we have in Norway, that children cannot participate in leisure activities, ski with the other children, go to the leisure club or have the opportunity to go to kindergarten. The red-green government has DKK 50 billion more in four years to spend on, among other things. kindergarten, school and culture than what Erna Solberg and her government had, because they prioritised treasures. So increasing the number of hours in school is going to cost. Getting cheap kindergartens costs. It costs to have more teachers. But it's worth it, and it's important to prioritize it, because we want to reduce poverty and give everyone a real chance. Has Erna Solberg realized that the Right, with the municipal budgets she presented in her government, would have destroyed for the important job that this government is doing to bet on children and young people and to prevent poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e548	This government has in two years received NOK 77 billion more because we turned the Norwegian economy, and because the international changes happened. That's why we all have room to bet more. It should have been a crossroads for the SV representative that we have actually proposed more to poor children, that we have proposed a greater focus on leisure services to help targeted in the context of a poverty effort than the SV have found room for. I think you should think about that. Yeah, we're to spend more money on expanding the hour. The previous government was the first government to drastically expand the number of hours. So during the last government period, in a much more difficult economic situation, we gave priority to twelve more hours of week, which is half a year more in school for Norwegian children. It's great that the red-greens now propose five hours, and they're going to get our support for it. But there are still seven hours less than what we had in a much, much more difficult economic situation, precisely because we're betting on knowledge and competence, and that children are going to have the greatest opportunities in the future, namely good education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e555	I have noticed that representatives of the Right in the same way as representatives of other opposition parties have arranged for a climate settlement in Stortinget. The center party is positive for that. There is a good tradition in Stortinget to seek solutions that gather widely in major issues that require long-term stability. How we can tackle climate challenges is definitely such a question. I'm pleased with Right's commitment to renewable energy, and it's an commitment that the government parties share. The oil and energy minister has already indicated the need to facilitate better support schemes. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the right hand side of the previous government has provided for the construction of a highly polluting gas power plant on Melkøya/Snow White. It's the effort of today's government that has made it possible, for example, to deploy CO2 management in Mongstad. My question to Solberg's representative is: Will the Right, as part of a broad climate agreement, contribute to the construction of all new gas power plants in Norway with CO2 management?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e568	I think that with the principle of providing support for CO2 management in Mongstad, a non-discrimination principle for the future has been put in place which means that others, too, need to be supported. If not, it will be difficult, or there will have to be new regulations and a whole new type of technology. So I don't think that's going to be that easy for us not to be on. I also think that the most important thing we do now is to get more renewable energy. Yes, it is true that a gas power plant has arrived on Snow White. Now I often remember that in some debates I have been in before, today's Prime Minister has boasted that he has started all the gas power plants in Norway, but I understand that now there is a new policy from the government parties to say that it is our fault. I take responsibility for it, in the same way that we have dozens of gas power plants on Norwegian continental shelf as part of our petroleum industry. More renewable energy will also make it easier to do something about electrification in the future. But it does not help electrify or increase the use of energy from land in relation to the continental shelf without giving us more and cleaner energy in Norway. That is why the Right Climate Policy is in fact linked. First we need more renewable energy, then we can also find several other solutions that allow us to replace polluting sources with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e578	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e581	It seemed as if the representative Solberg expected a line from me, but she could take it easy! In the summer, the central partitarians Marit Arnstad and Steinar Ness moved out in the newspaper Dagsavisen and declared the center alternative in Norwegian policy on death. The play got a lot of attention and lacked a political commentator nodding to the claim that ‘the centre as a government alternative is today without political power and without realism’. It is too strong to say that I was ‘deeply hurt and hopelessly broken’, but I was disappointed in the play. For the Christian People's Party, it has always been important to highlight the centre as a third road in Norwegian policy, a strong political force and a realistic alternative to the outer flutes, primarily because there is a strong community of values in the centre. It's still well known that the three central parties have sprung out of the same root, and that the countercultures are part of our common heritage. A willingness to build living communities from below — based on individuals, families, local communities, organisations and businesses — characterises the political centre. At the same time, we are united in respect for human dignity, solidarity with the vulnerable and responsible for the environment. We have had a strong value option in rural policy, environmental policy, refugee policy, family policy and in the fight for a fairer world. In addition to the community of values, the centre parties have brought together a strong population upturn, although the strength ratio varies overall and between the parties. An interesting feature of the autumn's municipal and county elections was that the centre came out strengthened. It's not least interesting because the election campaign was largely influenced by a classic two-block idea. The post-election polls have confirmed such a trend. The rumors of the death of the center are considerably exaggerated. The community of values and strength show that the centre remains and must be a third alternative in Norwegian policy. Today, Norwegian policy is more polarized than ever. The parties on the wings, SV and the Progress Party, put their mark on the debate. But it is not on the wings the natural centre of gravity of Norwegian policy and the best political solutions exist. It's in the center. Let me say: Christian People's Party is a non-socialist centre party. The Christian People's Party's first election will always be the center. That's where we belong. Any future government cooperation we're going to participate in must have a centre of gravity. The newspaper reported on the election day — in a broad and well illustrated headline — the news that Norway of the United Nations had been named the world’s best country to live in. There is no longer any big and fresh news, but there is a lot of evidence that we are going to keep the water bottle with the inscription ‘Best Country in the World to Live’ for many years to come. The kingdom goes down. Living standards are being improved for most of us years on end. The oil supply ensures well-being and social security. Norway is a privileged island in the world, and we should be grateful for that. Good welfare systems, high social mobility, low unemployment and high value creation are important factors in the quality of life of people. We need something to live off. Nevertheless, we have to ask ourselves: is Norway the best country in the world to be human? Is it just these material indicators that are crucial for the quality of our lives? Some examples show another side of the medal: Time has become scarce for many individuals and families. They're lonely. The number of requests to the Church’s SOS from people in crisis is increasing. Each fifth child grows up in unsafe homes with drug abuse, violence or severe mental disorders. Studies show that Norwegian children are the richest but far from the world's happiest. Doesn't this show that we might be bombing as politicians? That we have forgotten to recognize some values as important to people's quality of life, such as sharing with family and friends, time to breathe, security in everyday life and a clean environment around us? Quality of life cannot be measured in crowns and ears or traded in a market. Nor can quality of life be guaranteed by state welfare reforms. That is why the Christian People's Party in the United Kingdom has taken the initiative in a debate on the indicators to be used when measuring the quality of society and planning the way forward. The time is ripe for a broad debate on the consequences of materialism, the culture of consumption and excessive market thinking. Time is ripe to move from a welfare state to a quality of life society. Norway also needs a third option in this debate. Socialism and liberalism have in common that they are both materialistic in nature. Socialism strongly believes that increasing living standards improve the quality of life, and liberalism's credo is the market mechanisms. In this way, they differ from Christian democracy, which is a value-oriented centresideology without a dogmatic philosophy of growth. Overproduction and over-use in the rich part of the world are the main causes of the major global environmental problems. The culture of consumption has created a serious imbalance in nature. Over the last few years, Ola and Kari have increased their consumption by 40 p.m., and if we turn the forecasts on, we will have doubled the consumption from today's level by 2030. It's not sustainable. It's naive to think that we can solve the environmental and climate problems without changing our consumption patterns and our lifestyle. We do not exclude unpopular measures that cost. Here I must respectfully say that the speech of the Grandfather at the opening of the Storting was both more visionary and more realistic than that of the Government. New technological solutions can help us a little bit along the way, but not all the way, as the Government seems to believe. In our opinion, the government's climate policy bears the mark of a technology optimism bordering on naïveism, and a lack of leading var-thinking. Providing for a more offensive climate policy that takes the threat seriously, and taking effective action, becomes our most important task as elected representatives in the coming years. The government has so far disappointed in climate policy. The climate communication is bold in its objectives, but it is surprisingly powerless in its actions, and it must be a cross-thinking that the Progress Party, which will not even fully recognise the climate problems, is the only party in the Stortinget that has applauded the message so far. The measures provided for in this message are inversely proportional to the turbulence of the Memorandum of Understanding. In climate policy, we need someone to take leadership. It will cost to take responsibility and stand at the heart of the measures that are effective in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Christian People's Party is ready to take responsibility for the future and is happy to contribute to tightening up the climate communication in Stortinget, so that the oil nation of Norway can have a climate policy recognised by. We respectfully report some experience in dealing with unpopular things that in the long run turn out to be necessary. However, the party secretary of the Workers' Party shows an interesting willingness to see the realities in their eyes. In VG 17 September, Martin Kolberg says that he has a dream of stopping the growth carousel – for the sake of our common future. Finally, a prominent representative of the Workers' Party who dares to question the philosophy of growth. Norwegian political debate is largely about how we can make the carousel go even a little faster, and this is whether the Minister of Finance is called Per-Christian Foss or Kristin Halvorsen. That is why we need such debates that Kolberg is trying to travel. I am not always as enthusiastic about Kolberg's initiative for debates, but we need this debate. If we look at the Earth as a big cake, every human being basically has a right to one piece of each, a kind of organic portion. The ecological share is that part of the earth's resources each can consume without affecting other people or future generations and their ability to consume the same. The earth's tolerability is not unlimited. In stark contrast to the excess consumption in the West, the fact is that over a billion people live in absolute poverty. But the world can't stand the Western standard of living for all people. Then it'll just collapse. If we are to lift billions of people out of poverty, we have to share resources more fairly. Environmental and poverty problems are interwoven. Environmental problems create poverty, and poverty creates environmental problems. Poverty keeps billions of people in links, and human dignity is violated most of all every day. This is how poverty is the greatest ethical challenge of our time. I am pleased that this government, by the Prime Minister, has chosen to take a leadership globally in the fight against poverty. It makes me proud. At the same time, it is important to say that there is no matter more important to us than combating global poverty through trade, debt-laundering, aid and political reforms. The time is ripe for us to achieve the first milestone in the escalation of aid, i.e. 1 pst. of GNI. I hope we see that number tomorrow. It's not about charity, it's about justice. Yes, it's about taking the dignity of the individual human being seriously, no matter where on the globe he or she lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e651	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e654	The representative of the Højbrätten, mentioning in his post that the Christian People's Party will be with the centre of gravity of Norwegian politics, and in his opinion it is in the centre. But we heard little or nothing about what should be the content of this option. At the moment, we see that there is a sharp distinction between the opposition party and the government party when it comes to the distribution of mandates in a new magnification. Illumination measurements as late as today are an illustration of this. The political tension is evident between the current opposition party, and there is therefore a need for clarification. The Christian People's Party has traditionally marked a clearly different position on important political issues such as economic policy, welfare policy and aid policy than what the Progress Party has stood for. My question to the representative Højbrätten will therefore be: Is it relevant for the Christian People's Party to sit in government with the Progress Party if there are multiple numbers for the opposition party at the 2009 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e663	I am both a little disappointed and a little surprised at this question. First, I'm surprised because I wonder where Sandal's been for the last few years. After all, we gave a clear message from the Christian People's Party before the 2005 elections about our position on cooperation with other parties. We want to cooperate with the center of gravity. We have good experience working together in the centre and centre–right, and we went to the elections in 2005. That is still our message. There's nothing new to report about it. We defined ourselves in relation to the Progress Party and the Policy of the Progress Party on that basis. I am also a little disappointed because the representative Sandal does not take the opportunity to go into the debate that I really challenged the Stortinget at now, and that I think the Stortinget will have to take in the years to come. Now, when we're like this in the middle of the period, and far from the next elections, we might be able to use a platform debate to draw up some views on how we want society to evolve, not only in terms of material standards, but also in terms of quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e670	The representative Højbräten stressed in his contribution the respect for human dignity and the struggle for a more fair world. That's good. In Palestine there are 45 MPs in prison after being arrested by Israeli authorities. They're not alone. There are over 10,000 political prisoners in Israeli prisons. Of them, 320 are children, and 800 have so-called administrative custody, without trial, without law and without judgment. The UN General Assembly has repeatedly asked Israel to deal with international international law without any concern for it. Human rights are universal and cannot be ranked by religion or people. This has to do with human vision. Does the representative of Højbräten believe that Israel's negligeeing and disregarding international international law are constructive contributions to the strengthening of human dignity and a fairer world?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e677	I am pleased with this opportunity to state that the Christian People's Party as the starting point for its assessments of the Middle East conflict is, of course, the foundation of international law. This also applies to the specific issue on which the representative Lund Bergo is now based, namely the management of the catch issue on both sides of this conflict. We believe that, as part of the process we now hope to have ahead of us, there must be a release of prisoners, and Israel, like other parties to this conflict, must respect the principles and human rights on which they are committed through their participation in the international community and their adherence to the human rights rules, for which we are also fighting from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e682	The centre is not dead, and I agree with the representative of Høybräten that traditional centre values have a legitimate place in Norwegian politics. Centre-periphery, voluntary sector, counter-culture and local democracy are as important today as they were in the past. I believe that today's centre-left government, with the Center Party, has led a very good center policy. Examples of this are the municipal pledge of DKK 20 billion, the cultural promise, the transport and district policies, and the fact that one has secured local and national ownership of the grassroots power. We get a lot between the center and the left. The Christian People's Party cheered in 2003. It was a feeling of victory. The policy had improved. Lilletun pronounced it, the county leaders cheered, and there was great relief also in the Christian People's Party when they cooperated on the left. Does the Højbrätten believe that it would have been possible to make use of as many good centres as the historical municipal promise we have had, as the fall-back case, as the district policy, as the transport and agricultural policy, if we had gone to the right side and not to the left side of Norwegian policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e692	Let me first say that I'm glad that a future man in the Center Party as Battle Violence Vedum is now withdrawing the death certificate that former central party politicians issued here this summer. I hope that we can discuss this on that basis. Secondly, I would like to say that this government is implementing very good policies. That policy supports the Christian People's Party here in Stortinget by voting for, among other things. increased appropriations for the local government sector. But this government is characterized by the fact that there is a centre-out-left government, where SV is going to have its hand on the steering wheel. The centre party must therefore swallow the cut in the cash support. The centre party has also had to swallow in other areas of family policy, for example. in connection with the Prime Minister having a declaration on new common marriage law, which I know is very controversial within the Central Party. So it's a mixed image. The Christian People's Party's experience so far is that we get the most insight into a cooperation in the center or centre-right, but of course it's no eternal truth. The most important thing is that we actually get an impact on our policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e701	I welcome the invitation by the representative, Mr Højbräten, to debate alternatives in Norwegian policy. I think that is actually healthy for living democracy. But there is a confusion in our time. Earlier this week the leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, rejected that his party would sit in government with the Progress Party, and the representative Sponheim founded it purely politically. Jan Tore Sanner asserted in the NRK today that there is a bi-chamber battle between the opposition party. And Siv Jensen hassles with the Left. She did so most recently in the debate here in Stortinget today. My question to the representative, Højbrätten, is therefore: Is this a fight to build trust on the civil side?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e710	The representative Sandal should assume that in the opposition on the Storting there are different parties which have different political agendas and which are here to promote their policies and to pursue opposition policies against the current government. We have a long way to go until the 2009 elections. We have a majority government that for all practical purposes at least says it's going to sit out the period. I therefore believe that it is an accelerated time to demand that there should now be some sort of urgent need to establish an alternative to the current government. I can assure the representative Sandal that it will be given clear notice before we go to the 2009 elections. In the case of a bike fight between parties, I believe that the Workers' Party and the representative Sandal should go a little further in the doors. Because there's something that has shaped this government's first two years, there's a public bike fight between the government parties that they should actually have taken on the chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e717	The representative Højbrätten is to be honored for talking about quality of life. I want to follow up a little in relation to that, because this government has invested heavily on, for example. local economy, which has provided better care, better schooling and better provision for those who need it in the municipalities. Does the representative, Højbräten, think that there is an increase in the quality of life for those who receive care in relation to the government in which he was in, and for those workers who risked being cut off from their rights with regard to temporary employment and a lower level of job protection? Does the representative Hojbruten believe that their quality of life has increased when they have maintained that security? And does the representative Hojbräten believe that the quality of life is better when people can keep the unemployment allowance at a higher level than what he himself represented in the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e724	Some of my point was to emphasize that we need something to live off. So we need the material goods that the Workers' Party is very good at talking about, and very good at fighting for, and also good at implementing. But my whole point -- and that's where Klungland shoots all the way to the side of the goal -- was that we need more than that: we need something to live for. We politicians must be able to see that quality of life is material, but it is also more than material. That's the debate I wanted the Workers' Party to venture into, as Kolberg's play suggested. The change of lines after this post indicates that there is some way to go, but I look forward to the day when the Minister of Finance, whether he is called Kristin Halvorsen or whatever, holds a financial speech here in the hall where the indicators are somewhat more than these material sizes of whether we conduct a successful policy, whether we are a country in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e729	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e732	We have left behind a local election that was very good for the Left. We made our best local selection since 1971 and our best county election ever. The left has stabilised at a level in elections and on polls in the last two years that we need 35 years back in time to find parallels to. The election results also showed that the Left continues to strengthen its position in and around the largest cities: in the five largest municipalities, the Left received a total increase of 7.7 pst., and in the 20 largest municipalities, the Left received a total election result of 6.6 pst. It is close to drawing a parallel to the development we have seen in our neighbouring countries, where the Left's sister parties, the Swedish People's Party and the Radical Left in Denmark, also have such a profile and such a basis of choice as the Left has had in the last elections. For the Left, this promises good for the future. I am bold enough to believe that it also promises well for the country, because Norway needs a strengthened, vitally vital social liberal centre, we will get to the good forward-looking solutions for citizens, businesses and institutions in this country. Is there one thing that delights me even more than the Left's election results in the election we just made, it's that the voters are far more than the formerly weighted local issues and local candidates in their election. It shows the big differences that we can find in almost every municipality in terms of the break-up of the different parties in the local government and county elections respectively, or the differences in party break-up in two neighbouring municipalities of about the same size and challenges. Local democracy was seen and shown the great election winner. That is why the work that Martin Kolberg has now unfortunately got the Centre Party to investigate, namely the common election day for large-scale and local elections, at my discretion, is completely wrong. It has to be placed in the drawer immediately. You'd think Martin Kolberg had learned from this year's elections. He asked for a referendum for or against the sitting government, and the people said no. It is also the judgment of the Left: no to the sitting government after the next election. That is why we are already saying clearly that the Left will work for a government change after the 2009 elections. We don't want a change of government just for the sake of the change, but because we want a different policy and a different political course, a course based on a strengthened social liberal centre, consisting of the parties that led the country in an excellent way between 2001 and 2005. We therefore say equally clearly that it will not be appropriate for the Left to sit in or actively support a government in which the Progress Party is involved, with the same political justification: the political distance is too great for us to be able to adhere to each other's policies every single day, as we must in commitment government cooperation. Norway needs a new course in policy areas where the Left and the Progressive Party are political counterparts. This is the case in environmental policy, in terms of the view of noise, including multicultural Norway, it is about global solidarity, and it is not least the need to pursue a tight economic policy in order to secure jobs and the lowest possible interest rate. In addition, it is important for the governance of the country that a government consists of parties which have a fundamental convergence of political positions. It is this that, in my opinion, SV's problem is, and I think it explains the party's election result: in all cases SV must compromise to the right on its own. It results in a diluted profile and internal wear and distress. If there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that people don't want to march in the streets demanding a majority government after the next elections. What was going to end in games and speculation, what was going to be action, not negotiation, has just become this, and more to: a chaotic image of a government that is more concerned with symbols and internal relationships than with Norwegian businesses and workplaces. The management of the Hydro option case by the government and not least by the famous press conference on the shipping tax only hours before the closing party leader debate before a choice reminds of anything other than a steady government of the country. Just to illustrate how much the government is with itself: this press conference on a significant tax consolidation for the shipping companies came just 14 days after the newly elected parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Lars Peder Breck, at the NHO Småting on Hamar, promised that there would be no additional tax incentives for business from the current government. This is not an action or an end to games and speculation, and it has not become much better after the election either. During this week, representatives from both the Workers' Party and SV have moved out and repeated their mistrust of Eivind Reiten as chairman of StatoilHydro, as if it were their job to express such trust or not. What these representatives are actually doing is expressing distrust to the responsible state council of the company, Åslaug Haga, who repeatedly after she became the oil and energy minister, has expressed full confidence in the Reten, a trust central party leader Åslaug Haga, on the other hand, did not have in the party leader's question before the election. End of game and talk? Not exactly. The growth and position of the left in the political landscape obviously disturbs the image many other parties want to draw: red against blue, clever against bad, either taxile or community. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance saw it as his task in the election campaign – in front of a local election – to claim that a vote to the Left was a vote to the Progress Party, while the leader of the Progress Party Siv Jensen has used this week and his speech today to claim that a vote to the Left is a vote to the Labour Party. It is difficult to interpret this differently from the fact that the Left will be a very important party that will be difficult to get out of the 2009 elections. A government throne speech should be a document on the important challenges facing us as a nation in the coming years, and not a sandwich list of what points in the Soria Moria Declaration are to be followed up with a big message, as the government served us on Tuesday. That's exactly why the Stortinget has the throne debate before the state budget is known. In this way, it was Prime Minister Jagland and not the Government that helped to raise our eyes by pointing out the important challenges we face together in the fight against poverty and climate problems. I don't know if it's disrespectful, President, but it might be a thought that next year the King should have the honour of reading the speech of Grand President Jagland. The President of the Grand Duchy also pointed out something quite obvious, but which unfortunately does not seem to be fully absorbed by the Government, when he pointed out that we ‘usually get the good solutions if those who have the majority listen to more than themselves’. So far, the Government has shown an outrageous will to cooperate with ‘more than itself’. It is only in the case of the future pension system that we have achieved a broad political compromise in the Stortinget. It was a compromise which was created only because of the very extensive goodwill of the former government parties Left, Right and Christian People's Party. It is a compromise that is of little value if the government does not manage to put in place a replacement for today’s AFP system that does not undermine the main elements of the new pension system to pay off working any longer. We need broad compromises in several areas. I want to point out to two obviouss: we need a common lift for those who are really struggling, those that we see a little too many of just moving a few meters from the landfill, the properly worn drug addicts who often have mental problems as well. We must have a Russian and psychiatry effort based on those who are struggling, not on a technocratic reform that is primarily about institutional purposes. We need a reform that will tear down the invisible bulkheads between the various agencies and institutions, between the state and the municipality, between the drugs and the psychiatry. And we need to put in place a climate policy that is better and more obligating than the government proposal that is being discussed in the Stortinget. We owe our children and grandchildren the best solutions to the greatest challenge of our time, effective climate action that needs to be noticed. The government's speech was virtually out of the question of good news for research, for business and for those who work with the idea of investing in Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. For the Left, it is essential that we have a commitment to research. One of Norway’s competitive advantages is the ‘reasonable’ high-educated labour force. This is why we need to facilitate the creation of new enterprises, based on competence-based high-technology – typically in environmental technologies. I fear that the budget presented tomorrow will not in any way take over this recognition, and that Norway's research efforts will again be the budget paper. I hope I'm wrong, but unfortunately I don't think so. In last year's chronology debate, I took up some ideological dividing lines between the parties outside and within the Government. After that time, the National Meeting of the Left has adopted a new principal programme, ‘Freedom and Justice’, in which we further clarify the social liberal platform. It is about the freedom and personal growth of individuals, about strong communities in a good balance between the civil sector, regulated market economy and political governance through the public sector. We think of the individual, the market and the state in the best balance, where we mean the red and the blue binoculars too much in each of their harmful directions. This social liberal civil platform is the best basis for the development of the future society. More socialism or more dark blue politics is not the answer – definitely not.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e774	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e777	Sponheim has said several times this week and also today that it is not relevant for the Left to support a government where the Progress Party is involved. I think the leader of the Left deserves praise for such clear speech. Now negotiations are taking place around the country's local government and the county council on who will be in charge for the next four years. Many places are Left in a key position. Whether the Progress Party will have positions and whether the Advance Party will have political influence, will decide many places Left. My question is: What is Party leader Sponheim's view of local support for regimes where the Progress Party is involved and gets positions and political influence? So it's not good to give the Progress Party national influence. Is it okay locally in relation to what party leader Sponheim has said, or will he now just say that it is entirely up to the local people elected to decide?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e786	I've always had a basic slogan in my party leadership of the Left in this area, and that's that the wit is well evenly distributed in the Left. One must be able to make the reasonable balances locally based on local circumstances. I registered that Myrlis the party leader also said the same thing in the party leader debate. Think for yourself, he said, to his own representatives, and I'm sure they'll be able to do that. For me, it is important to clearly distinguish between the municipalities that have parliamentaryism and the municipalities that have the Presidency principle, which have a lot of electoral cooperation in order to get different fractions in the distribution to go up. It is fundamentally different from where binding four-year political agreements exist. That is why I have also stated that the situation in Oslo and Bergen – where the Left has made it clear at local level the same as what I have done clearly at national level – is different, because one who has a municipal government, one who has binding parliamentaryism and one who binds one another up in a government cooperation that makes one also hold back each other's policies. That's the big difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e793	Sponheim used a good deal of his post to decorate the Left's election result. Therefore, I would like to begin by being allowed to congratulate the election result and the increased self-confidence that Sponheim has gained. I thought so to the extent that it was almost impossible. [[Laughter]] What has happened in the last two years here at Stortinget is that the opposition has had a good cooperation in a number of cases. Green certificates are a matter, and I could have mentioned a number of other issues. What's going to be interesting in the future is where the Left and Sponheim are going to be political in matters to be dealt with here on the Stortinget, for example. with regard to the Government's proposal to buy up in StatoilHydro and spend billions on it. I want to ask a question about the new socialist course Sponheim and Left have chosen: Who will the Left cooperate with at Stortinget? Is it the red-greens, where he has no influence, it's the bourgeois, just until 2009, or is he going to be in a political no-man's country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e803	It's quite fascinating to experience that after the many years I've spent in this hall and the many times I've been on this pulpit, I'm going to be called a socialist. There's probably not so many more than those with rhetorical exercises that are now being practiced into the Advancement Party, I think, which seems to be something special about it. At least that's not right. At the same time, I do not accept being admitted to being on a right-hand side of Norwegian policy, for the center is a natural size. It's always shown that, and there's both me and left. Then I can assure you that the Left is going to stand firm on its positions regarding the important common civil platform that is linked to limited state ownership, things that are good for business, etc. Our political cooperation in this room is going to be confined to the center and the right. It says the National Meeting of the Left, and it has instructed me to control the party after.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e810	In his reply to the Prime Minister, the representative Sponheim went a long way in prejudging Hydro for corruption. I think the representative should be careful about that. A good rule of law is that you're innocent until the opposite is proven, even in the case of people you don't like. According to the media, the representative Sponheim has performed a genius line by clarifying that he will not support multi-party government. Then I would like to remind you that one of the main issues between the Stoltenberg I and Stoltenberg II governments is environmental policy, an area in which the representative says he is very concerned. If we are to meet the challenges of the future in relation to the environment, it requires a gigantic transformation of Norwegian business, a shift towards greater sustainability. Here's the SV driver in the government. The country and the future need SV. Does the left see that the environment also needs SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e817	First of all, I have to say that I am wondering at the starting point for this line. I haven't pre-judged Hydro in any way. I have registered that once again there has been a harmful debate that could have happened something that is illegal. We know that something very illegal has happened from Statoil's hand, which they have admitted, that they have had to pay billions to get out of, and we know that there is a sentence on SAS. I think that SV should take more seriously, that partially state-owned companies violate the law, or perhaps have broken the law. Then I would also like to stress that I was Minister of Industry and managed the state's ownership for many years in Hydro, also at the time of Saga's purchase. I was very happy with that company, because it meant so much to Norway. That is why I am very sorry that this debate comes about this company, and also for the uncertainty about these companies as, among other things. the replicator has contributed by weakening the authority of the manager of Hydro and by otherwise dissuading the commercial interests of these companies. I think we need these big companies, and I'm in favour of a state ownership that ensures that the company's head office stays in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e824	The representative Sponheim has received a lot of attention for his centre initiative. Interestingly, he raises the centre of Norwegian policy when our government – the centre-left government – has ruled for two years and has provided centre policy as never before. It's worth mentioning, for example. a strengthened community economy, a historic cultural promise, a fully-fledged policy of volunteering, a culture initiative, a district policy and a fall-back – things that the previous government was unable to implement. Sponheim stated in connection with the election defeat of the Left – because the party has also suffered, but it was in 2001 – to the Official Journal of Bergen 16 September 2001: ‘It was good to let go of the political claustrophobia that we felt when we were locked up with the Center Party.’ Who is it that Sponheim wants to implement the central policy with?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e836	Today, the centre of Norwegian policy consists of two parties in opposition to the red-green government. It is, at my discretion, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Both the Christian People's Party and the Left have shown in this Chamber and in this debate so far that they appear to be an independent force, and will contribute to a centre-right government if the voters give it opportunity after the election. But when you take on the honorable task of calling yourself the centre of politics and a centre party, you are also somewhat more nuanced in drawing Norwegian policies. I mean Norwegian policy does not consist of two blocks, one of which is nice, and the other is bad. I admit that the government that Rune J supports is doing a lot of good in terms of center policy. But there's definitely a lot I miss, not least in the area of value creation, about making it easier for the small ones in business, and other aspects of economic policy, where the center stands for something other than what the Center Party is contributing to today. But I think that's hope for the Center Party. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e845	It's strange to hear the representative Sponheim lecture in history. If you look at the starting point of all the three central parties – in the counter-cultures, in the centre-periphery conflict, in the belief in local democracy rather than in state supremacy – we still have a lot of common thoughts. I also don't think the Left defined itself as not being a centre party in the previous period, when they chose to make a historical break with this tripartite collaboration and to go into government with the Right. There are three center parties in Norway. We have now chosen different paths. I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to have more impact on good center policy by going to the left than by going to the right. It shows the experience from the previous period. I believe that the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left should end the struggle to define who is a centre party, and who is not. We've chosen different paths. I'm sure that the way to the left will lead to better policies on the traditional issues of centre and periphery.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e852	I would like to contribute to a good tone with the Central Party in this debate – and in future debates – so I don't want to be very hard on this. I would nevertheless say that some historical breach in the cooperation between the centre and the right in the previous period was probably not. I believe that in that time the representative and I have lived and perhaps have followed politics, the Center Party has been more frequent in a centre-right government than the Left has been. I would say that there was no historical breach at that time either. I hope that the Center Party will find its home to the center, a center based on an ideology where society will be built from below, where it is the individual people who are the central, and not based on systems to be built, which has been the traditional profile of social democracy. The centre party will be welcome home again. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e864	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e867	Two years have passed since the government change. We're halfway through this magnification period and we can figure out the state at half the race. The majority government is moving towards the objectives set in the Soria Moria Declaration, and a great deal has been achieved in two years. The government has helped thousands of people to get into work. The employment rate is high. The unemployment rate is the lowest in almost 20 years. In fact, the vast majority of the sectors in business go down. We are on track with the 10,000 more employees in the care of the elderly. We have proposed the construction of 12,000 new nursing homes and homes until 2015. Kindergartens are built as never before. The goal of full child care coverage is achieved in the vast majority of municipalities. The parental payment has been reduced. The municipal sector has received additional billions since 2005. This is money used for a better school, for better care services, for more culture and for more environmental measures. The Northern Region bet gives results and optimism. Increased efforts to cooperate with Russia, to research and development and to increase student exchanges are concrete examples. Coast Guards have been significantly strengthened. It gives visible results in controlling the fishing in the Barents Sea. In the coming years, the Labour Party will focus on four main areas: sustainable environmental and climate policy work for all and a working life for all to create the world's most inclusive societies in Norway security and the renewal of the welfare society The issues of working life and of an inclusive society may be the most important measures in the fight against poverty. I want to pay special attention to the first point, climate policy. The climate policy of the Workers' Party and the Government has, in reality, gained broad support. Now everyone is over-achieving the Kyoto agreement's 2012 target. That was not the case before the Government and the Workers' Party proposed this. There is a broad consensus on cut equivalent to 30 pst. of the emissions in 2020. The goal of carbon neutrality has also been endorsed. No one talked about carbon neutrality until the government suggested it. Climate change is the biggest challenge we face. It recognizes all parties – perhaps also the Advance Party. At one time, the competition of the parties in the climate issue must give way to serious negotiations, where, in the light of all that we actually agree on, we can come up with comprehensive measures to be taken by Norway – both at home and outside. As we first see – through serious negotiations – whether the opposition's rhetoric towards the government's climate policy is more than rhetoric. Here in the Storting, the persuasion debate is one of the occasions that the opposition has to respond to the Government. This week we have so far witnessed a very special opposition debate, namely the opposition parties' debate with each other. In the autumn of 2005, it was said that the bourgeois parties would use the next four years to build a credible government alternative until 2009. Today we can see that after two years they are not a single step closer to a credible and united bourgeois government option, rather on the contrary! The left will not sit in government with the Advance Party. The Christian People's Party will not sit in government with the Advance Party. The party of progress will not support a government they themselves do not sit in. The right will sit in government with all three of those lots. After Sponheim's statement on Monday, repeated here in the Chamber today, we can also state that a clear bourgeois government option does not actually exist. Although it is currently unclear what becomes the option of the current government at the 2009 elections, there are enough major and important issues that should find their solution within that time, even across the blocks. So let me end with a call for the opposition parties. In the future, let us work together to find good and broad policy solutions where this is possible and absolutely necessary. The climate issue is already mentioned by more than me today. I am further thinking about the design of the new population, the church-state case and the major issues of foreign and security policy. All of this is a matter where we have a great responsibility to find common and broad political solutions here in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e927	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e931	I noticed that the Prime Minister here today in his speech spent a lot of time talking about the poverty challenges globally. The same thing was done in the throne. I think that's good, and it has Right-wing support. Nevertheless, the contrast between the report that has been of global poverty — and the importance of combating it — and the lack of reference to how we will succeed in combating poverty nationally. There were not many measures in the census, and I don't think there were very many concrete measures in the Prime Minister's speeches today. And this was one of the important promises from the red-green ones. Is it so that the representative Hill-Marta Solberg has also joined in the series of inter alia. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, who on 5 June 2007 says to Dagbladet: ‘We do not meet the objective of the Soria Moria Declaration to eradicate poverty in Norway.’ Are you not going to achieve the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration here? Is that the promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e945	I believe that all the parties – at least everyone who has had the opportunity to once be in government, as the Brennes party has been – acknowledge that even in a rich country like Norway, it is a demanding task to combat and eradicate poverty. It's a very demanding task. That's why we have to get on it with a curved neck, too. The current government has made considerable efforts to reduce poverty in our society, not least in the fight against unemployment, and the fight to integrate those who are excluded from the labour market, which may be the most important measures to get people out of poverty. An action plan on poverty has also been presented in the context of the state budget for the current year. So the government has in a number of areas taken action to meet the challenge it is in society that even a rich country like Norway unfortunately has people who are poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e952	The debate on the future and future visions of the throne and the debate on the throne should be focused on the future, and focusing on the future is a focus on research and development. It is important for Norway’s future place in the world society, both politically and commercially. It is crucial for future national growth and economic development. It can contribute to meeting international, energy, food, water and health challenges in developing countries — to mention something. We are now in the middle of a situation where the Government is leading a country that is the worst in research in the Nordic region – not on quality, but on resource use. In 2005, Norway spent SEK 30 billion on research, Sweden spent 99 billion. The government's government budget since then has led to a real decline, and basically the goal is to use 3 pst. of GDP in research. Today Norway uses 1.5 pst. Is the parliamentary leader of the largest government party satisfied with this jumbo place?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e961	First of all, I agree that very much of the challenges of the future are to find solutions through new knowledge. Then research efforts are also incredibly important. On the other hand, I very much disagree with the opposition parties when they have used large parts of 2007 to tell the Norwegian people and many others that we in Norway are cutting in research. For the current year, there was an increase in research appropriations of 900 million. So it's almost $1 billion. It's very well done to produce what's cut in research. The government's ambitions regarding the objectives of the research effort are maintained. It will also be extended through the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e968	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg came with a clear invitation to cooperation. We note this with interest in the Christian People's Party. I also expect that this will be the case for the budget that is being advanced tomorrow, that it will not necessarily have to go through this Chamber unchanged. So Solberg drew up sustainable environmental policies as the main foundation of the Government. It brings me to something Hill-Marta Solberg's party trap Martin Kolberg said to the VG a few weeks ago. He said that ‘we can no longer continue a system that leads to an ever-increasing consumption’. It looks a lot like the debate the Christian People's Party held today about quality of life, and having something to live for is not necessarily synonymous with having something to live for. My question to Hill-Marta Solberg is: Is Kolberg's statements on its own behalf, or can we expect to see a system change in actual policy based on what Kolberg has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e977	Not least in the light of what not only the Norwegian political debate has been affected, namely the climate challenges, but in view of the major global challenges we have through the rising temperature of the globe, I think everyone can easily come to the realization that there is one thing that is at least not possible, namely just to continue as before. By continuing as before in area by area, we will exacerbate the situation in which the globe has already come. That means we have to do things differently. It is through international and national measures — not least to reduce greenhouse gas emissions — that we can help reverse development and perhaps in that way also save the globe from a temperature increase that would be completely out of control if it became too large. I fully share Martin Kolberg's view that we have to do things differently in many areas – otherwise we're out of chance, especially with regard to the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e984	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e987	I will in my article address three challenges for the future. The first is the one that several people have been faced with as the second-largest challenge we have – the environmental challenge. We all see that it blows, it rains, it's more stormy than ever. In other countries in poor parts of the world, we see that they experience drought, they lose opportunities for water. We actually have climate refugees who have to escape to other areas to survive. We have just had a TV program with Børge Ousland, which comes from the northern regions and tells us that there is a dramatic development in ice melting around Svalbard and the North Pole. This is the biggest challenge we have, and the one that will require the most from Norwegian politicians in the years to come. We know that the western countries are the ones that pollute most of all. A Northman releases ten times as much as one from India and a hundred times as much as one from Ethiopia. That's why we need to address this if we're going to be able to do something about the major climate challenges. The second question I want to address is the evolution towards a ego society. When we're drawn to the country's best country to live in, it's because we've built on the Nordic welfare model where the motto has been: you're going to do your duty and demand your right. We now also experience in the municipal struggle that when discussions about e.g. property tax comes up, we get an ego-thinking where the willingness to deliver is less than before. That's why I think that this discussion about the ego community should we dare to take: how we're going to be able to continue to have a big community cake that we can all share. That's the best way to promote social cohesion. A newspaper wrote about the stap saturation syndrome a few years ago: now I am so stuffed that I get annoyed. We're getting more and more stuffy, but we're getting more and more annoyed. We have to take this challenge seriously. Why are we going to be like that? Why do we who live in the best country in the world become more and more irritated? That's what I think we're going to do. I think we have to take on board that there are people today who have a hard time, but most of us have an unbelievably good time, and we actually have to be more solidarity with each other in terms of finding good Community solutions. The third challenge is in relation to the depoliticization we see around us. It has two sides. Firstly, we have a depoliticisation that we have actually been responsible for in the last twenty- thirty years by shifting political power from politicians to both civil servants and agencies outside the political system. We owe it to the sea and can actually do something about it, sail if it's demanding. But the most serious depoliticisation is what happens when people experience politics as games and speculation and less as political crafts. That is the way we get political contempt. We who are set to take some important steps, can't take those handles because it's the game that gets focus. Our legitimacy is weakened as long as it's the game that's in focus and not the political craftsmanship. That's why I think we need to have a discussion about the political role and how we're going to complain about it in the future. To talk more about what's going on in the future, I think we need to become far more courageous politicians. We have to make more courageous choices as a whole college. I think Helmut Kohl made a brave choice at Germany’s collection – the taxes that increased significantly for the West Germans, he made a brave choice. Today's government in Norway is also making courageous choices. In relation to climate issues and other things, you're about to make some courageous choices that actually also require a good deal of each of us. We have to be able to say to Norwegians: we have to make some brave choices. But it will also require part of us who live in this country if we are to succeed in those choices. There's this government about to do. We often talk about Einar Gerhardsen and Erik Brofoss who built the country. We're proud of them, and you're still supposed to be. This government is rebuilding the country, and it requires political courage. We're in the process of doing that, but we also need support from a collective Storing in such a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1002	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1005	I recorded that the parliamentary leader of the SV spoke about three issues on which he was extremely concerned. One of the issues he did not mention was, in fact, finding a solution to the poverty problem in Norway. Before the 2005 elections, SV may have been the party that talked the most about finding solutions to the poverty problem. But then we have seen that after SV came into government, among other things. The party leader of the representative Ryan in many ways blew off this whole promise and said that this is impossible to reach. It's a bad news for many of the people in this rich country who actually have a difficult everyday life. What will Inge Ryan communicate to all these people who are now part of the poverty group? What can they expect from SV to focus on this in relation to the promises they actually made before the 2005 elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1012	Firstly, I am pleased that the Progress Party is concerned with poverty. I think that's great. I just want to underline what the Prime Minister said in his statement that things are done about poverty, but it is never quite possible to say that poverty is abolished by a hundred percent in Norway. The most important thing is that we've got a lot of people at work. Many in work make people come out of the poverty situation; they get income every month. So there are some groups that we still haven't gotten into work, but it's working hard for. It's also about having one door. Many of those who experience poverty today struggle to run from office to office when they need help. We think we should get the NAV reform in place and that it will work well over the coming year. Then it'll be much easier to get the help you need. But I agree with the representative, Leirstein, that we should focus on this, and there are still some things left before we reach the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1022	A recent local election was held in Norway, a choice that became a disaster choice for SV. Now I learned correctly as a little boy that one should not kick the one lying down, and I do not intend to do so either, but there may well hardly be any particular doubt that much of the cause of SV's dramatic decline is the voters' experience that SV in government on a case-by-case basis is being overturned by a violent working party. The language of the throne did not mention the fight against poverty in Norway with one single word, and in the evening post today we can read that the Swedish Minister for the Environment is the great loser in the budgetary struggle. Then I'm a little interested in hearing if SV's parliamentary leader can share some of his thoughts on how to get up in the world SV, when the party is completely overrun by the Workers' Party in its main affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1029	The rumours of SV's death are considerably exaggerated. I want to reply to the representative, Engeset, that we have previously been on 5 and 6 pst. opening up and coming back strongly. We'll probably do that again. When I started politics in 1997 and came into the central government, we were also at 6 p.m., so I think we have good opportunities to get up again. As for the inner life of the government, I will not refer so much from it, but it is not that SV is being rolled over. I think we have a prime minister who is constantly trying to find compromises between the three parties. I'm not a seaman in the government, but attending part of the meetings, and it's a basic opinion that we're going to find solutions that are good for all three parties. Obviously, there are tough discussions sometimes about what's the best solution, but no parties are being rolled into the government. We have constructive debates in those meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1036	It's great to be right on the exposure that Inge Ryan shows to the environment. The Socialist Left Party at its best is when they talk and fight for the poorest and for the environment. But the worst is when they bend off for the LO and for the Workers' Party, just to sit in government. Today, I sat and nodded when the state minister spoke of the environment and development as the greatest challenge of our time. At the same time, he also said that before the 2005 elections, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV had become some of the most important political issues. He takes tax policy and foreign policy, but he doesn't mean environment. In 2000, the Christian People's Party went out of government because we didn't want to be with and build gas power plants. Then SV said his party leader to Stoltenberg that he abused the possibilities and went backwards into the future. How can SV claim that something that was old-fashioned in 2000 is being fixed in the future in 2007? And how can SV sit in government when they build gas power plants and open up for oil exploration in the north, and not come up with enough new renewable energy schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1045	Firstly, there will be a number of measures in relation to new renewable energy. A plan has been presented for this, and there are a good deal of measures to be taken in this area. As far as oil exploration in the north is concerned, it is a compromise that we have reached by looking today in those areas that are least vulnerable, while the most vulnerable areas are kept out. In relation to gas power plants, we are the government that actually initiates serious clean-up – it's not just about having to have environmental measures, we're doing something about it. Last year's budget allocated large sums, and this year's budget allocated large sums, for the clean-up of CO2. I believe that this is the first government that has gone from words to action in environmental policy. But I agree with the representative, Ropstad, that there is a lot left, and we will deal with that. As I said in my main post, we need to be better at showing political courage in such a difficult matter, and then we would like to welcome the Christian People's Party to the team.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1057	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1060	The centre party is committed to taking care of and further developing the supports on which the Norwegian community is built. When the Centre Party intends to ‘take full use of Norway’, it is based on the basic idea that we are obliged to manage and make use of the entire country. We don't just have rich natural resources, but our infrastructure and our housing pattern give us many choices that many other countries don't have. This is undoubtedly a powerful competitive advantage for Norway in a globalised world. For the Central Party, this is about making Norway a country where people have faith in the future, where we make use of the natural resources and where knowledge and technology are used to create jobs and secure settlements throughout the country – a country where we continue to rate goods production and industry. The forces of centralisation in society are a threat to this. The centralization is a threat to the center values. For the Central Party, it has been essential to work for national Community solutions also in the light of our values, whether they relate to such different themes as the distribution of power, the Church of State, the Community School, the defence of people, national ownership and the spirit of virtue. The centre party wants something with Norway, and we do something with Norway every day in practical policy. Before the 2005 elections, we made it clear to the voters that we would work for a centre-left government, focusing on Community solutions, distribution policies, local economy, culture, environment, transport and industrial development across the country. Now we've been doing what we said to the voters before the election. We have worked hard, we have prioritised, and we achieve good political results in many areas through this government cooperation. The centre party is today the guarantor of the practical implementation of a successful centre policy. There has been a significant and necessary commitment to local economy, a formidable commitment to culture and volunteering and a historic commitment to infrastructure, broadband and transport. In view of this, and in view of the fact that the Centre Party is currently in charge of central policy and is the guarantor of the centre values, last week's discussions on cooperation, or more precisely the lack of willingness to cooperate on the centre-right side of Norwegian policy, are becoming both challenging and paradoxical for us in the Centre Party. I would like to stress that we are very interested in following the political clarifications that the Left and Christian People's Party will make against the 2009 elections, and I also want to stress that we have respect for the processes that are going on in the parties. I would like to stress that both the Central Party and today's Centre-left government have invited the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Stortinget to closer practical and political cooperation in matters where there is a political basis for it. The centre party is particularly committed to strengthening the centre and the centre policy. Today, it is only through cooperation on the left – a centre-left cooperation. This is also the great challenge of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The centre party has, through its choices, paved the way for a new orientation in the centre of Norwegian politics, a road choice that I perceive also Left and Sponheim have realised through their clear no to the Progress Party. The dramatic climate change that we have seen growing traces of recent times shows that environmental problems are global and man-made. Environmental policy has so far failed to prevent increased climate emissions, while destroying the local resource base on land and at sea. Private consumption is growing, and we're all more or less woven into a life pattern that has a negative impact on the environment. By focusing on Green Modernisation, the Centre will contribute to better management, better consumption, smarter use of technology, better resource use, conservation of nature and cultural landscapes and viable communities. The central party's environmental policy has been both in its position and in its opposition an environmental policy with man at the centre. In our ecological overall view, human and human activity has a natural place within a forward-looking nature and environmental protection. A green modernisation that is not based on the management mind and the human being in the centre will in any case fail. If we are to succeed in environmental policy, we need to seek broad solutions that at the same time both facilitate and stimulate changes in consumption patterns for each of us, and that enable us to develop and apply the technologies/technologies needed to reduce the environmental adverse effects of withdrawals, production, transport and consumption to a sustainable level. This is why it is so important for us to reach an environmental agreement with business organisations as soon as possible that ensures a planned and targeted reduction of NOx emissions. Therefore, it is important that we get broad political agreement on climate action and policy in place, as the Prime Minister has invited in the context of the climate communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1091	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1094	Once upon a time, the Center Party was a bourgeois party, but has gradually become clearer and clearer with the socialists. Parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Lars Peder Breck, and I'm from Trondelag. I hear that Breck says that the central part of the government and in Stortinget should be a guarantor of a substantial investment in infrastructure. I'm going to try to be quite specific on my question, because every day this government tries to make it clear that they have a historic boost in the field of transport: where has the significant, historic promise come from regarding infrastructure in the North and South Trøndelags? Has there been a major effort on the roads in the North and South Trøndelag? Or has there been a major effort on the railways in the North and South Trøndelag? Can the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Mr Brerk, respond to this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1101	The representative Sandberg focuses on whether the Central Party is a bourgeois or a socialist party. I want to stress that the Center Party is a center party. Through history, we have cooperated both to the left and to the right for us, and we are very pleased with the cooperation we have today, because through that cooperation we develop good center policies. This government, through its policy, has had a historic boost in transport, and we are the first government to comply with the National Transport Plan. Through the solutions that the Progress Party has contributed to in previous cooperative formations, the party has not been implemented as much as this government has done with a Central Party Minister of Transport. In the case of Nord-Trøndelag, I just want to mention that we are within a four-year period. We have already put important things on the agenda. We have contributed to the Meråkerbahn being set up, and we have invested in the railway for example. ensuring the activity of Norwegian Forest facilities in Levanger.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1110	The Government announces that it will present its own maritime strategy – as part of the follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration, where five industries are identified as important and will have their own national strategy. You'd think it was a good idea to get your own national strategy from the government of Stoltenberg, but it's obviously not. The maritime strategy that we got yesterday was entitled ‘Big Course’. It is tempting to add a ‘steep course on land’, because what we saw yesterday was a basic maritime policy support. While Minister of Industry Dag Terje Andersen boasts of 252 million. For increased research efforts in the maritime sector, the Government – and the National Council of the Socialist Left Kristin Halvorsen – has announced a historic attack on the maritime industry with a withdrawal of DKK 14 billion from the so-called tax credit. This is a fundamental breach of confidence in relation to the conciliation of the Centre Party in 1995. Can the representative, Mr Breck, guarantee that the Central Party will correct this proposal and participate in broad political cooperation on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1119	It is surprising that the representative Torbjørn Hansen addresses this matter. We know that there are also very different views in the Right Party on how to solve the tax problem for the shipping industry. Everyone knows that a coalition government needs to take decisions based on compromises, because the three parties obviously have different starting points and different policies. The shipping case is such a thing. The final solution is based on these three main elements: a new competitive tax regime for shipping companies, the winding-up of the tax credit scheme, some of which is to be paid in and some of which is to be set aside for environmental funds in companies, and finally the new maritime strategy involving research investment, as well as short sea shipping. This is a compromise that the Central Party in the government has put behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1127	First of all, I would like to congratulate the new parliamentary leader of the Central Party on his new position and to welcome him to work together here in Stortinget. Secondly, I would like to say that it is gratifying that in this debate there seems to be a comprehensive theme of how the centre of Norwegian policy should be shaped in the future. We've been told that the death certificate for the center option issued by some central party people this summer has now been withdrawn. The parliamentary leader of the Central Party also talks about centre policy and about the red-green government as the centre-left option. And he's so right about that. The problem is that the center of gravity is not in the center, but on the left – far to the left – of the center of this government. But let it go! The Christian People's Party is trying to rule by the Lahnstein doctrine, that a centre party can cooperate both on the right and on the left. What are the views of the Central Party parliamentary leader on the role of the Central Party in the centre of Norwegian policy ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1136	I'm also very happy that we focus on center policies and center values, and that we identify common values between the centre parties, even though we have had different choices in recent years. As I said in my post, two years ago, we chose to go into a partnership on the left for us based on the assessment that it was obvious that it was where we had the opportunity to achieve results. I see it as the events of the last weeks with clarification from the Left and the representative Sponheim, and also clarification from the Højbräten, of where they want to go, mean that they realize that one does not get more central policy in cooperation with the Advance Party and the Right. More central politics get a more likely by cooperating on the left, with the Workers' Party, and maybe SV, as we have chosen to do. We are busy working further, and we feel well in this collaboration. We feel that we are achieving significant results in the community economy, in the fields of culture and volunteering, of which the Christian People's Party is also very concerned, and not least in the areas of transport and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1145	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1148	The Prime Minister said in his speech that the issues we discussed in the United Nations last week are the most important issues of our time. I would like to underline the importance of such issues being discussed there – in the United Nations. It increases the political legitimacy of the organisation. It's good for the world, and it's good for Norway. Although reforms in the UN are slow to progress, more developments in recent years have been pointing towards a UN that is becoming more relevant, clearer and met with more respect. This may be due to more experience with the alternatives, alone and the consequences of lack of anchoring. It is in Norway's interest to actively use the UN framework both to support the UN and to promote important aspects of our foreign policy. We are the seventh largest contributor to the United Nations. That's why it's a goal and a task for us to be active in the United Nations and active for the United Nations. Let me illustrate this with some things that took us last week. This is the first time climate issues have been so central to a general meeting. It sets the tone for the negotiations against the Bali meeting in December. The US meeting on climate issues in Washington later this week also made clear reference to the UN process. It is here, with binding agreements that include several – and not individually – countries in the world, that need to find solutions. In last year’s meeting on Afghanistan, Norway addressed the need for better coordination and stronger commitment to development. Now this is well anchored in discussion and planning in the UN and NATO. It challenges the Afghan Government, the regional players, but it also challenges the countries. If you are in favour of coordination, you must also be prepared to be coordinated. The exit strategy in Afghanistan must consist of the gradual governance and security of the country by Afghans. The outside helpers must be ready to let this happen. The UN must play a key role here. The presence of the UN must be strengthened, in Kabul and beyond in the country. This is going on. The Norwegian proposal to re-appoint a high-level representative of the international community is also emerging. The UN has been laboriously positioned to make a decisive contribution to peace in Darfur. The Security Council has taken its decision and is now preparing a historical UN/AU force. Norway is ready to participate with an international engineering team together with Sweden. The clear signal from the UN/AU came tonight. It'll be a very demanding task. But once again, we have seen that without the UN, the world does not have the power to gather all the threads that must fall into the work of not just stopping war, killing and displacement, but to ensure peace and development. The UN also plays a stronger role in the discussions about Iraq. The humanitarian challenges, the refugee disaster and the threat of dissolution challenge the entire world community. The UN Secretary-General said in his speech that Iraq is now the whole world's problem and challenge. Norway is taking this seriously, and the Government is now assessing how we can make our contribution through a main focus on cooperation with the UN. Last week we saw the United Nations at its best, but we also saw some of the weak sides of the United Nations. The Security Council proved quite so powerless in relation to the dramatic events in Burma. It deprived the international community of the opportunity to send powerful signals to the Burmese regime. Norway condemns the most violent and violent use of force against peaceful demonstrators. We call for dialogue between the regime and the democratic opposition. Burma's problems can only be solved along such a road. We must press for this and choose the instruments that can contribute to a national reconciliation process. One point of light was that the Security Council was behind the UN Special Envoy Ibrahim Gambari and his visit to Burma. I met him before his departure and promised Norway's support for his further mission. We follow the situation carefully and await his assessment after the visit. Let me also mention that the new Human Rights Council unanimously pronounced itself with clear criticism of the military regime in Burma. It's positive. I took note of the President’s statements earlier this year that the UN was a ‘destructive body for world peace’. This was rejected in cash by the other parties on Stortinget. I have never heard a government representative in the world express himself this way. It would be a world news if such a view were to front or influence Norwegian foreign policy. Our UN policy has traditionally had a broad cross-political anchoring. It also has our commitment to peace and reconciliation. Such anchoring gives predictability and creates confidence in Norway as an international actor. That means that we can engage in work that we know must last for several years. We can be sure that Norway will show action and patience. Important work that one government starts is likely to continue the next. I hope this quality will continue. The impressions of the UN's many meetings last week underline that we have opportunities to make a difference. The UN never gets better than what member countries make it. Norwegian interests are served to work for a strong, effective and respected UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1187	The northern regions have been one of the main areas of activity of this government. However, results on land in northern Norway have been relatively absent, at least so far. Now we almost experience a race towards the Arctic Ocean, and the political attention in many capitals is directed northwards. The government's activity on the travel front and the conference side has been great in the north, and it can be good if you do something more than just talk. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs very briefly tell us what substantive results are expected for Norwegian foreign policy and Norwegian industrial interests, for example. strengthening the legal status of the fishing protection zone and the Law of the Sea Treaty, which is essential for our interests in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1194	The main strategy is to ensure that international law applies in the north. We do that by following international law and being an active force for it. Norway has provided geological data on the extent of our continental shelf — only Norway and Russia have done so in the north. Flag planting has no legal significance, but it has the fact that Russia provided its data in 2001 – Norway did so in 2006. Speaking of the UN, it is interesting that there is now an active debate at the US Congress and the Senate to ratify the Convention on the Law of the Sea. The Bush administration is driving it, because it will provide them with tools for their policies. Norway is active, as the representative says, on trips and conferences to spread this message, to show that international law provides clear guidelines on how to address the issue. The areas of the North Pole are marine areas with a strong legal basis. Then I would say that I do not agree that there is no development in the north. My travels in North Norway show that there is optimism, business development, innovation and a quest to develop the known natural resources and the new natural resources. This interest is not only in Norway, but it is from other countries that want to cooperate with Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1205	It is good that the Government has managed to unite that NATO is still our main transatlantic forum for security policy, and that one is working to strengthen the political dialogue in the alliance. Of course, it must also include our greatest and most important allies. I also fully agree with the Minister of Foreign Affairs' previous statement that we should be friends of ours, and the question is, When shall we experience that Prime Minister Stoltenberg is welcome and received in the White House?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1212	It is not a Norwegian Foreign Minister who regulates the meeting book of the American President. We have extensive contact with the United States at all levels. The Prime Minister met the American president in New York last week. The channels are open and many. So I won't exactly say that's what's going to determine the quality of this ratio. If there is occasion for such a visit, such a conversation, Norway will accept it. If it doesn't happen at the time President Bush has left, we have many other channels to pursue these contacts. It is a rich, comprehensive and complex cooperation we have with the United States. It is good in all main areas. We also have areas where we have different views. We have respect for that and can express it. I feel that two good and experienced allies live very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1217	Let me first say that the Christian People's Party is pleased and supports the fact that we now seem to have a Norwegian-Swedish contribution to a peace force in Sudan. It is very good that we have come so far in the clarifications. In August, the authorities of Ethiopia took a very unusual and dramatic step: they exhibited six out of nine diplomats at the Norwegian Embassy in Addis Ababa. Unfortunately, Norway's potential for influence on the Horn of Africa has been weakened, an important area in both conflict resolution and poverty reduction. The U.D. announced significant cuts in Norway’s assistance to Ethiopia due to the reduced staffing at the embassy. After I have been informed, most of our assistance goes through non-governmental organisations, the World Bank and the United Nations, but there are also some states to state aid. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What is Norway doing to prevent the vulnerable civilian population in Ethiopia from being affected by the diplomatic crisis that has arisen, and what channels other than the Norwegian Embassy will Norway provide its assistance through? Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm that such alternative channels have been found to help those in need of help?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1226	Let me first say what we have said in a form that we find the accusations against Norway's attitudes and actions groundless. We have communicated this to the Ethiopian authorities. At the same time, it is our view that it is a desire to have a good relationship with Ethiopia as an important player in the region. That is why I had a thorough and lengthy conversation with my Ethiopian colleague in New York during the UN General Assembly, and I think we have found a trail that can lead us to a more constructive work. Norway accounts for something in Africa. We are not brokers on the Horn of Africa, but we are a country with many contacts and want to exploit them. That means that sometimes we can have different visions, and that can lead to what happened now, a situation that we didn't want. I can confirm that our objective is that the reductions in assistance that may come because we reduced the embassy staff from nine to three should be able to be rediscovered, so that the assistance is when the people it is intended to reach. We're working on those channels. I do not have an adequate answer to the question, but something may be increased support through other countries' embassies, which may be increased emphasis on the UN. The main strategy is to return to a situation where Norway has the representation we need in Ethiopia, to cooperate with both Ethiopia and the African Union, which has its seat in Addis Ababa.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1234	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1237	The parliamentary leader of the SV called for political courage. I agree with that, but then perhaps one must first agree on what can be described as political courage. If being politically correct compares to having political courage, I actually disagree. Some of what characterizes and destroys the Norwegian political debate is, of course, what is perceived as politically correct. So now it's politically correct to talk about the climate in all contexts. In this context, the Progress Party is in a way completely pushed on the sidelines, because it is claimed that we have nothing to contribute to this climate debate. I think that's very interesting. Both the Prime Minister and others in the Workers' Party would like to see it almost as a kiss of death. But when we are dealing with the climate communication, the content of the climate communication, the Progress Party agrees with the Prime Minister and the Workers' Party that if you really think something about an effort in relation to the climate debate, you have to take most abroad. However, this does not mean that the Progress Party will not make a significant effort at national level to influence the environment and reduce emissions, not least within infrastructure. It is not politically correct to talk about the fact that building up infrastructure will make a significant contribution to reducing emissions, even if for example: SINTEF in Trondheim has produced and produced a research report that says that building roads, as proposed by the Progress Party, will significantly reduce CO2 emissions. We know that the transport sector represents 40 pst. of CO2 emissions in Norway – I repeat 40 pst. of CO2 emissions in Norway — and that the road sector accounts for 60 pst. of this, and the report from SINTEF says that building roads, as proposed by the Progress Party, can on average reduce CO2 emissions by 25 pst. on the way. It's not politically right to talk about it, because it's just the Progress Party that has discovered this Sintef report. But when others are going to comment on this report, it is that it has significant errors and needs to be corrected significantly because no one has political courage – because it is not politically correct. Then it is that you register today that it is a huge decay in terms of our infrastructure, everywhere, from road to rail, it is decay. This maturity means that we get increased emissions. That is why it is so important now that we get this commitment on infrastructure, especially in terms of roads – in order to create safe roads, efficient roads and good roads for the environment. That's why I'm so surprised when you're still using arguments like there's no capacity in the construction industry, and there'll be pressure in the economy. There are still the two arguments used. Surveys are now being carried out on the whole country, and it is now said that in a year's time, there may be an open capacity in the construction industry of between 40 and 60 pst. That means that now we have to seize the chance to make a lift in infrastructure. There are two choices to be made: either that the construction industry has to go into huge breaks and lose capacity, and that those who work in the construction industry find something different to do, or that we are now allocating enough resources so that we can continue the activity we have in the construction industry, beyond 2007. Of course, it remains to be seen whether the government will do anything about it on Friday. But I'm afraid that when the development director of Vegvesen today goes out and says that in any case there will be less money going on next year, it's because we're not good enough in terms of competition, it's simply not attractive enough to offer tenders for projects in Norway. I get that. Large entrepreneurs in Europe and elsewhere in the world are not interested in coming to Norway and building two kilometers of E6, but if we build the corridor E6 from Oslo to Trondheim, large entrepreneurs will probably show their interest by coming here and building roads. That is why I have noticed with great interest the invitation that the Prime Minister made at the end of his reply earlier today, where he invited everyone to come and bid to build roads in Norway. I also hope that the Prime Minister will have the money ready when there is a storm of entrepreneurs who will build large projects in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1258	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1261	I'm actually more concerned with what the representative Sandberg wasn't inside, as it was pretty much the way it went in. The party of progress likes to be presented as a party for most people. In tax policy, on the other hand, it is the richest who get their hands down the farthest into the good bag, and not the most people. The policies of the workers they run will give ordinary workers considerably less rights in the workplace, and we will have a tougher and more unhealthy working life. In addition, the Progress Party in major welfare measures is cutting. When one looks at the whole of the Progress Party's policy, the great group of people is in a negative direction. My question to the representative Sandberg is: why would the Progress Party treat people most of the way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1270	My answer to the representative Brørby is: Why is it that the Workers' Party spreads that kind of untruth? Why is it not that the Workers' Party focuses on that when they joined the government, they were actually in the first government that gave the greatest relief to the kingdoms of this country? The first thing it did was give huge tax relief to its own state councils, which make one million a year. So that's not the right thing that's claimed by the representative here. But what the Progress Party is doing is we're looking at the whole thing. For people with lower and medium incomes in Norway, it is the tax policy of the current government that creates differences. I have only had four telephones from four retirement couples who have moved to Sweden this week. Their claim about the reason they move to Sweden is that they no longer cope with tax pressure from the current government. That's why they choose to move to Sweden. With our policies, we would have tax relief at the bottom. In fact, we gave them greater tax relief with lower and medium incomes in our alternative state budget both in 2006 and 2007 than the government has achieved. So I think that the representatives of the Labour Party must see better in their own cards before they spread the untruths about the policies of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1279	I want to ask the representative Sandberg a question about agriculture. The representative Sandberg and I come from the same state, a state that depends on agriculture. We know that in several budgetary discussions the Progress Party has proposed to halve agricultural aid. Based on my knowledge of Norwegian agriculture, it would be dramatic. Some farms in the most favourable areas, on the Jären and around the Mjösa, maybe, would manage it, but in North Norway and in large parts of Trondelag and the West it would be dramatic. This would mean that farmers who are currently struggling with the economy – despite having a good settlement this year – would have to cut back on many farmers. It would be dramatic for the farmers involved, but also for Norwegian food production and the preservation of the cultural landscape. My question is, is this a serious proposal? Does the representative Sandberg and the Progress Party mean that we should halve agricultural aid for Norwegian farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1288	The Progress Party is always serious about its proposals, because they are very serious and well worked out. As far as agriculture is concerned, of course, the representative Ryan fails to mention the other side of our agricultural policy – that we are doing something about concession law, housing and compulsory employment, and the no-part law, that we are releasing the industry a little in relation to the possibility of creating niche areas and to be a little more creative in relation to co-operation, etc. It's also true that with our policies, there would probably be less use. But there should not be any surprise for the representative Ryan, because under the sitting government, there are many uses removed every single day. The number of uses has been reduced from 60000 to nearly 40000, without any representation of the Progress Party in the government. So there can't be any scare propaganda for anyone. The last thing I saw was that dairy farmers in Norway export milk to Germany with significant profits. I hope for a stronger development in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1299	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1302	We now see more clouds in the international sky — dramatic climate change, decreasing economic growth, which can once again increase global poverty, and a more than real threat of terrorism, recently revealed and averted in Germany. Climate change and poverty are closely linked. Since the Rio Summit in 1992, global greenhouse gas emissions have increased by over 20 pst. At the same time, there are still more than 1.6 billion people in the world who do not have access to energy. We have to make sure that the 1.6 billion get access to energy, but without increasing CO2 emissions. That is why we need to have economic growth, but it needs to free up the growth of greenhouse gas emissions. It's one of the really big global challenges of this century. Without energy, no development. Without succeeding in combating climate change, no development. This will increase poverty due to increased desertification, increased forest death, dramatic loss of biodiversity and increasing water scarcity. Fortunately, climate change is soluble and possible to prevent. It is a matter of political will. The Stern report shows that it can cost 1 pst. of global GDP to implement climate change mitigation measures, while the long-term costs if we do nothing are 5-20 pst. So it's actually both profitable and right to stop these climate change. There are some paradoxes in the census of these fields. It gives a good description of the climate challenges, but few concrete measures, especially national ones. It gives a good description of the global impact of poverty, but little mention of the measures needed to tackle poverty at home, which was an important part of the Soria Moria Declaration. I hope that in the debate we will get an explanation of the question I asked to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg, and I did not get an answer to, regarding Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen's statement to Dagbladet on 5 June this year: "We are not achieving the Soria Moria Declaration's goal of eradicating poverty in Norway." I think many will be surprised if this is the government's policy. I noticed that the Prime Minister made a big point that this government is keeping the promises it has made. Yes, the Minister of Finance, who said not to keep the promise of poverty reduction in Norway, started this summer. I think that many who are following this debate will be very surprised at that. So if we can get a dementia, it'll be very good. But this is not the only breach of promise from the Soria Moria Declaration. It was not that one should expect an increase in health cows of 20,000 in two years with a red-green government, that it was part of the Soria Moria Declaration – a very difficult situation in rehabilitation in Norway? The hot school lunch has been missing and turned into an apple on sharing in the class. There are increasing cows in child protection. The weakest young people in Norway can be investigated for many months before action is taken. The industrial power regime is missing. There is a resting-point in research and education and a cut-off from universities and universities, most recently with water buckets on Blinders, where there is simply no money for rehabilitation. That there was going to be a red-green government to cut close to 300 million. kr at universities and colleges, I think was surprising to many. I also think this is surprising in relation to the Soria Moria declaration. Therefore, in its alternative budgets, the right has strengthened the health budget. We have also invested more in higher education and research. We've invested more in school. We have also had good environmental budgets. But we have not had hot school lunch in our budgets – I will admit it – but then we have not promised in the election campaign that it will be implemented. I have also noticed that there is a significant concern among the government parties that there is some disagreement on the civil side. That is why I have gone back to the debate on the throne in 2003 and seen that there was a clear disagreement between today’s red-green government parties in key policy areas, the EEA, gas power stations, oil extraction, the use of oil money and transport policy. So it's pretty early in the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1325	It's great that the Right has had high ambitions in climate policy. Børge Brende has now been Minister for the Environment, but it was before anyone came up with the idea that Norway would cut emissions by 10 pst. Instead of raising them by 1 pst, as we can under the Kyoto agreement. That was before there was an agreement to cut the emissions by 30 pst. At home and out, and there was before anyone had at all thought of carbon neutrality. In today's VG, Børge Brende presents the Right's demand for a climate settlement in Stortinget, and common to those demands is that they will require tens of billions of dollars. I assume that the representative Brande agrees that the necessary climate action will mean a significant change in policy on economic priorities in relation to what we experienced during the Bondevik II regime, that is, when Brande was Minister of Environmental Protection. That's the one. The second thing I'm wondering about is what prospects Burnde looks forward to pursuing an ambitious climate policy in cooperation with the Progress Party in a possible government – when we hear Per Sandberg. The Progress Party has now realised correctly that the greenhouse effect is not about gardening, but this party's only domestic grab for CO2 cut was a gigantic road development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1340	I want to commend the Government for setting quite ambitious targets in the climate communication – that's not the problem. But if you are to achieve goals, you also need a policy to help achieve the goal. When there are too poor renewable energy schemes and environmental technology research and development are starving when these objectives are not met. But that's what we're going to try to work on in the Storting during the fall, so it'll be realistic to achieve the ambitious goals that we also agree with. So I don't think we're going to spend too much time talking about the snow that fell last year. But I'm actually proud of the job we did in the Bondevik II government in the climate field. We had to promote an additional notification of the climate after the Stoltenberg I government, because they were too weak. We got into a national quota system that we didn't get through with the Workers' Party's support, so we had to go to SV. It became very offensive. We agreed with the Norwegian industry that they would cut 20 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. As a result, during the Bondevik II government, the sum of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway actually decreased.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1347	I think it is boundless frowned upon by the representative, Burnde, who, in 2000 precisely in order to build CO2-polluting gas power plants – a man who thus contributed greatly to tax-subsidising the development of the gas power plant on Snow White – to stand here and, like, have the big climate views. But now let it go. We're doing a decent job to make sure that we resolve the climate problems in a commitment way. But I want to grasp what's the other big thing that I feel is that Børge Burnde Toucher in, that's how development is going in some of the countries that are going to be affected by climate change, where we've been investing in the decent, that's to contribute with increased assistance through a gradual increase in aid, just the same thing that the Christian People's Party and the Left managed to force the Right to join. But right-wing cuts in aid, which are just hitting the countries for which he speaks so warmly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1357	At least you should pick up your ears when the representative, Heikki Holmås, accuses someone of being boundless-minded – that was what the representative started with. There is an expert in the field who is speaking here, namely the representative Heikki Holmås. I think we should be a little more factual in this change of words. So to the reality of the climate problems. In fact, it was not the Bondevik II government that headed for power in the year 2000 because of gas power stations. So it was the Workers' Party that came to power – with Jens Stoltenberg as Prime Minister – through the gas power case. When it came to the environment in general, as I said, in the Bondevik II government we had a good cooperation with SV in Stortinget – when SV was actually an environmental party. I had to defend a tough regime against the Norwegian industry when it came to cutting greenhouse gas emissions, together with SV – to strong criticism from the Workers' Party. As far as assistance is concerned, I have been told that we have granted as much in our 2007 aid budget as the Government did in 2006. It must also be seen in the context of a different and more offensive policy of opening up exports to Norway from the poorest countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1368	I record that the Right in its comments on the throne speech states that it is visionless, and that the Government does not act. I think the voters see who's acting and delivering results, and who's sitting on the sideline and commenting. The government acts every day. We deliver results in line with the Soria Moria statement. In my post I made it clear that we deliver results in local economy, infrastructure, culture, volunteering, etc. We strengthen the provision of services in the municipalities. In the last two years, the municipalities have had more than 20 billion dollars to travel with. We spend billions more on roads and railways in this country than the Right did when they sat with power. We're going to re-engage from the right-hand government in the last period, and the Central Party is going to increase the appropriations further in the next transport planning period. My question to the representative Burnde is: Can we expect support from the Right to continue increasing efforts to build roads in the next period, or can we expect the Right to settle at the same low level as in the previous enlargement period – when one was far away from fulfilling the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1377	As far as I remember, we increased road appropriations by 21 pst. in the previous period. But I also agree that on the roadside there is more to be done. Of course, we are part of a national effort to renovate the roads and the railways in Norway. It was just supposed to be missing! It also has a good climate impact. When we wrote in the press release that I assume the representative Breck is looking for, that the government was visionless, it was because the census did not contain any great thoughts about how Norway should behave in the years to come with much more brutal international competition. Then we need to focus more on research and education. That's where you cut. It's not just a skirmish, you cut higher education, and especially towards colleges, that's in the districts. It should be a paradox for the Center Party. Clearly, you do not keep your promises to industry. The industrial power regime – where did it go then? Now we've been waiting for two years. We've also been waiting for two years for an energy plan for Middle Norway, which is facing a power crisis. Now the previous councillor didn't get it – he spent two years. If we have to wait another two years, it's probably the next bourgeois government that might have to come up with such a plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1389	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1392	I want to talk about what is for good reason referred to as the greatest challenge in our time, namely the climate. I'd like to start by boasting of our granddaughter, Thorbjørn Jagland, who gave a wise and visionary speech during the opening of the 152nd granddaughter now on Tuesday. After an election campaign that was slightly visionary and forward-looking, it was good to hear a speech that took our responsibility as elected representatives seriously. Iland appealed to the leadership of us, and said that the project of democracy is information and progress, not primarily to run after what is popular right now. The innermost part of the idea of solidarity, on the other hand, is ‘the will to sacrifice something for others, in this case people who are not yet born’. We who are elected and decision-makers today are at risk of being judged harshly when the history books are written. The next generation can be unmerciful, with good reason, but it can also look back on us with pride. The Trontals bid that the Government wants Norway to be a leading country in climate policy. We in the SV agree with the Norwegian Prime Minister that our efforts at home are a prerequisite for influencing the international climate negotiations in a positive direction. SV has always intended and wanted to go beyond other parts of the Storting both as regards the protection of vulnerable sea areas against petroleum activity and as regards the purification of gas power stations. In government we have decided to clean up the gas power plants both at Kårstø and at Mongstad. Had it not been for SV, both of these gas plants would have been built without cleaning. In addition, the management plan has had an impact on the protection of the Vesterølen and Lofoten. The Government has decided that Norway will reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. by 2020. We also set out €20 billion at a renewable energy fund and energy efficiency improvement. We have put in place the world's strictest quota trading system. In addition, we have increased the investments to the railway by 50 pst. in 2007. A key element for SV has been the setting of emission targets for each societal sector. In this area, groundbreaking work has been done. It also clearly states that if a sector is not in a position to achieve its objective, new measures need to be considered. The action plans are an important element to make all sectors think: What does our actions mean for the climate on earth? It must be equally important to assess the costs of the climate as a result of a decision, as it is obvious today that we are investigating the cost of action and decisions in the form of crowns and ears. The Climate Communication is a marshalling ground for the various areas of society to start work to reduce emissions. At the same time, the message announces a significant boost for climate research and technology development. The Climate Communication provides an impact on the implementation of climate action that we have been working for a long time: the ban on oil firing in new buildings from 2009, the aid scheme for converting oil boilers into new renewable heating, the landfill ban for organic waste from 2009, the programme for developing technologies for sea wind turbines, the strengthening of the framework conditions for new renewable energy production, the assessment of the establishment of a body for the conversion into environmentally friendly transport – what is called Transnova – requirements for the placing on the market of biofuels, the designation of tolls for collective transport and the strengthening of the reward system for public transport. In addition, there is now an investigation into the electrification of the socket. There is a high potential for oil and gas production cuts. In all those years SV was in opposition, we were confronted with claims of irresponsibleness. We were irresponsible because we wanted to redeploy, invest in knowledge about the environment – in short, conduct a sustainable and solidarity policy. Today, I think many people put more into the concept of irresponsibleness than what the craziest economists do. It's e.g. low level of responsibility for an understanding of cost-effectiveness that does not also consider the costs of not doing anything to prevent dramatic climate change. There's a reason to notice that Hurricane Katrina cost 125 billion dollars. It's a little bit above what we're spending on the total state budget in Norway. We have to get used to thinking about the climate impacts of all human behavior. As Erik Solheim said in New York in May of this year: ‘The threat of global warming illustrates better than anything else the nature of humanity in a community of fate. Global warming is a product of the wealth of the rich world, but it is hardest to hit those who have contributed to it at least.’ [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1424	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1427	It was interesting to witness that the whole of No Marte Thorkildsen's articles were about climate and environment. Of course it is important, but what I also noticed, was that she was not in the area of health and care, which is usually her area. I therefore still want to ask questions about this area. In the case of rehabilitation, rehabilitation institutions are currently running with heavily reduced coatings. Private contracts are so bad that in many cases they have to go down. On 1 October we witnessed the closure of the Kure Psychiatric Rehabilitation Centre. A treatment institution was also laid down a few months ago. It ran with the treatment of young people with drug problems. This morning we heard on TV that anorexia is spreading among young girls – down to the age of 13 they need treatment. Capio Anorexia Center in Fredrikstad has not been approved for hospital status and has now waited five months for a response to a new application. Does the Government consider it more important to phase out private health providers than to take patients into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1438	The consideration of patients is most important to us. When we've decided to invest heavily in the public offer, it's because we think it makes sense to use all the public funds to develop the offer, to ensure good quality, to ensure that those who need rehabilitation will get it, and not that some of these funds should go to profit, for example. to commercial operators. So we're distinguishing between commercial players and non-profit actors in this area. The government will also come up with a strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. However, I would point out that it feels a little strange that we are going to be dealing with the big things in a throne debate, what is really going to make us elected to feel like exactly that, where we are going to take on what threatens us both here and globally, and which we may not have the opportunity to re-establish, ends up with that not what we are talking about anyway, because the Progress Party believes that it is not an important question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1445	I also noticed with some surprise, like Mr Giltun, that the representative of Thorkildsen did not, in one word, touch on the matter for which we are jointly responsible in the Health and Welfare Committee, despite the fact that the speech of the throne contains a section on this very issue. I assume that this is not due to the fact that the representative does not regard this field as belonging to the big things and the big challenges. One of the most striking features of the throne is that this government has now promised for the third time that it will produce an escalating plan for the drug field, i.e. for the very weakest in Norwegian society. Does the representative of Thorkildsen think that SV can be familiar with being in a government that obviously downgrades this field in a conspicuous way compared to what the previous Minister of Health and the previous government did?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1453	First, I want to say that even though we're sitting in each of our committees, we're nevertheless elected into this great crowd that might be expected to play a slightly larger role than just looking at their own small sector. In any case, I have received a solid awakening in terms of climate, and I have decided that I should care more about this area in the future. I would like all of us in this room to do that, regardless of whether we are on the Energy and Environment Committee, the Transport Committee or where we have to sit. So it's really a challenge back to the representative Inge Wohnung to also care more about this field, because there we have absolutely no right. So to the question. I mean, we haven't down-prioritised the drug field. In the budgets we have submitted, we have allocated extra funds to the drug field every year, and we also come up with an escalation plan now. [[The President clubs.]] Now I can't say more about it, but the drug field is an important area, and not least important for SV, and we're also going to show that through the escalation plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1460	I listened to the article about climate, and I thought it was an interesting article. I want to challenge the representative Thorkildsen when it's about the climate among us human beings. We need a common lift for those who are really tired, and for those who we see a little too many of us just go outside of the cave – I am thinking especially of the heavy drug users. It is said that the Government will present an escalating plan for the drug field, such as the representative of Thorkildsen, and that the mental health escalation plan will be followed up. We in the Left record these signals, but we are not sure whether the signal is followed up with concrete actions and permissions like monars. My question to the representative of Thorkildsen is: can SV guarantee that those who need the most are prioritised in this year's government budget, so that we can talk about a real uplift for these groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1469	Although this line is not about what I was talking about either, I would nevertheless like to say that I am pleased that there is so much focus on drugs and on those who have that tough party in Norway, from several of the representatives of the committee in which I sit. I am also very committed to my soul in the drugs issue and to the issue of mental health protection and psychiatry, which are neglected areas for many years. Then I can say what I wasn't supposed to say in my answer to the Inge pay line, and that is that we have also followed up what Ansgar Gabrielsen went in for when he was Minister of Health, and for which he is to be praised, that there should be a greater growth in the field of drugs and psychiatry than in the somatic field. We've followed that up. In addition, we have an extra focus on children of parents with mental illness and drug problems. We have also put forward a new proposition to provide a waiting time guarantee for those under 23 years of age who have the same kind of problems. Then we will present a drug escalation plan that will contain money, but which will also include a change of systems that will improve cooperation between agencies, which is one of the main challenges in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1483	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1486	Norway is experiencing strong economic growth. But growth will lead to greater inequality unless we take new political steps to prevent it. Climate change is an example of market failure and illustrates the need for political governance in a very clear way. Global warming clearly shows that we, as politicians, need to take the lead in changing course. In the newspaper today, the Velferdsallians ask the Government to change the course of poverty policy. Smoothing inequalities is important in itself for moral reasons, but also because inequality has many negative social consequences. A new study by the Statistical Central Bureau shows that cash support means a lot to the children of low-income families. In practice, this means that we would have about 13 000 more children in the low income group without cash support. So cash support is the most important thing for those who have the least. When the family is poor, the children are the hardest. Good schools and kindergartens with low parental pay are important. International comparisons show that public welfare policy is very important in preventing poverty. Safe growth is largely about a good school. We think it's important to bet on a better cooperation between home and school to smooth out social differences. Also, the number of elephants that do not complete further training is alarmingly high. It is important that we take concrete action, such as creating a better advisory service, to bring this down. The government has failed to comply with its promises of full child care coverage by 2007 and reduced the maximum price, which is eye-catching from the crippling statements they made when they were in opposition. If we are to trap the weakest children, we need to use targeted tools. The nursery is in some cases the only safe place to hold the children in everyday life. If children of drug users, mentally ill or poor parents do not go to kindergarten because they are too expensive, this is one of the most important things we should give priority to. That's why the Christian People's Party paid 25 million dollars. kr to income-graded parental payment in its alternative budget for the current year. Numbers from the Statistical Centre show that many municipalities have turned up kindergarten prices for the families with the least to travel with. Since the introduction of the maximum parental payment price in kindergartens in 2004, half of the municipalities that had graduated income from parental payment have now removed it. This must be taken by the Government. Municipal Report recently wrote that child protection in many municipalities has to coerce children into institutions for help, contrary to the goal of helping the most at home. In public child protection, there is a shortage of a range of services for which they are responsible, such as institutions, shelters and foster homes. This creates great frustration in the municipalities. The municipal lawyer in Ålesund expresses it this way: we are required to give a bid. We are responsible for every single young person. But many of the children don't get the help they need and have legal claims on. Child protection must therefore be based on economic considerations, waiting for the situation to become bad enough to allow the child to be subjected to coercion and placed in an institution or in a foster home. It's totally unacceptable. Children’s protection often need a more secure base than those who have had a stable growth with safe and close relationships and surroundings. Child protection needs to be strengthened so that we get enough help, foster parents and institutional places where we need it. Many child-restraints seem to be thrown into a reality they're not foreordained to. That's why many people are also struggling with different problems when they're between 18 and 23 years old, in the so-called failure phase. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly called for the statutory right to follow-up for all children until they reach the age of 23. I hope that the Minister for Children will go to the barricades of the weakest children. Finally, I would like to mention a group that has experienced serious care failure from the public: the children's home children. A claim for parental leave has been raised against the State by a former child's home child. But the Storting is very clear here. The Family and Culture Committee wrote in Innst. S. No 217 for 2004-2005 that it should not apply in this type of case. I had hoped that the government would take seriously and listen to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1509	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1512	In the treaty debate a year ago, the representative Højbråten agreed that the Christian People's Party has traditionally co-existed with the government parties on a number of policy issues. He went on to say that the Christian People's Party's problem with the Workers' Party was value issues, such as cash support, free school and biotechnology. Today, the High Commissioner said that aid to poor countries is not a question of charity, but a question of justice. I agree, and I wonder if justice is also one of the issues that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party agree on. I also remember that since the last debate on the throne, the Government and the Christian People's Party have made a settlement about the private school law, a settlement Right and the Advance Party were not part of. In the question of the Biotechnology Act, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party also disagreed. Therefore, I would also like to know whether the representative Molvær Grimstad agrees that it is less that separates the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, and more that separates the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, today than it was a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1519	I thank the representative for the question. The Christian People's Party is a center party and is located safely in the center. For us, things like safe growth, worthy old age and the environment around us have been in focus and are what we have prioritised. We are pleased that in matters we can find constructive solutions with the Labour Party and other government parties. Then we experience in other things that we can become some with the Progress Party, Right or others. For us, the most important thing that can be involved and give us an impact on our policies. I know that in some areas we can become a few. When we get to better solutions and things to move the government in the right direction, we're happy for that. But at the same time, we see that there are challenges, e.g. in relation to genetic engineering and biotechnology. When it comes to environmental policy and the treatment of climate communication by Storting, we are very excited about whether the Government will move in the right direction. We are happy when we can find constructive solutions. When it comes to family policy, we hope that the Government will move a little more towards the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1530	I think the representative Molvær Grimstad had a good post, which showed a great commitment to vulnerable and weak groups that we in SV share. We disagree on some of the instruments, but I have to say I appreciate the commitment, and it sounds like Molvær Grimstad is happy to have come out of his former partnership in the previous government. We have a lot of the same goals, but we have a little bit of disagreement about the way they work. This government has actually taken 50 billion kroner, which the previous government would use for tax relief, to use just for vulnerable groups, and not least for cultural purposes, which also Molver Grimstad is occupied with. Both the commitment and the views promise well for the future, because I have to ask Molvær Grimstad if she believes that the probability of getting through to the ideas she has is greater with the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV than with the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1539	There's a show that I'm getting pretty tired of, and that's that the government that's been doing today has given much more priority to the local government sector. We are very pleased about that, but what was very important for the Christian People's Party when we joined the Right and Left teams last, was also to get a clean-up in the difficult situation of many municipalities. We were through tough conversion, and it's never popular. One could not allow as much money for good purposes as one wanted, but I saw that there was a development in that business started going so sussy. A tough transition that provided a good income base for municipalities to allow more money for well-being and care. And we will continue to focus further on the future, both on family policies, care, the environment and a business that will have good framework conditions. There I think SV has a good piece left to go, because we also need a value creation if we're going to have revenues to distribute in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1545	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1548	Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in, and there are several reasons for it. Much of the explanation is that we have managed to create a welfare society where a fundamental value is that all people should have a chance and thus also an opportunity to put their abilities into practice, for the benefit of society. Then we have been lucky in Norway, because we have access to rich natural resources. From other countries, we know that such rich natural resources as we have in Norway are not a guarantee of jobs and access to welfare for most people. In Norway, we have facilitated business activities throughout the country while using oil revenues to finance education, care, kindergartens, roads, railways and all the other Community promises that make Norway such a good country to live in for the most part. Much of Norway's wealth is built on what comes from the sea, and also in the years that come, there are some of our foremost opportunities, whether in the form of petroleum, sea windmills, fisheries, farming or bio-prospecting. We're going to take good care of these possibilities, and we're going to take good care of nature. In the fisheries and aquaculture sector, it is particularly evident how important a nature in balance and a clean environment is to the existence and development of the industry. Of course, it is a goal in itself to prevent pollution of the sea, but when you know that we are exporting 27 million in Norway. fish meals per year; Today, it is also good business policy to ensure and document that our fish are picked up from a clean sea. That is why this is a priority area for the Government. The rise in sea temperature will be the most important single factor affecting life in our waters. The consequences of these changes are uncertain, but we know that climate change will impact differently in the North Sea and the Barents Sea. In the North Sea, we have seen a marked decline in species such as cod, hyss and Atlantic mackerel, while more warm-hearted species such as sardine and anchovy, normally found in Biscayabukta, have begun to spawn in the North Sea. Whether the total production of fish in the North Sea can be maintained is uncertain. In the Barents Sea and in the Northern Norwegian Sea, the situation is different. Climate change has led to higher production and greater prevalence of cold water species. This trend will continue with a further increase in temperature. The spawning grounds for cliffs along the coast have moved northwards and eastwards. Climate change will also present us with new challenges in the further development of the aquaculture industry. Optimal growth conditions for salmon and cod will be shifted northwards, and we will have new challenges in the fight against fish diseases. These examples show how important it is to take a national, and not least an international, impetus in climate policy. At the same time, we must start working to adapt to climate change. Through research and monitoring, we will be in the forefront, look at the impacts on the ecosystem and thus take action in time to manage our fish stocks in a responsible way under a new climate regime. In a sustainable management, it is essential that fisheries are carried out within a legal framework. That is why the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is so important. This is a work that the Government has put high on the agenda. In a short time, we have put in place more money, better regulation and a number of international agreements to combat overfishing. This work is now producing results in the form of a reduction in overfishing on the main stocks in the Barents Sea. But we're not in the target, and we're going to continue this work until we're done with overfishing. In Norway it is good times. It is also in the fisheries and aquaculture industry, where profitability is good, and where new export records seem to be set this year. At the same time, coastal communities are still struggling with depopulation and high unemployment. A common denominator for these communities is fisheries dependence and vulnerability due to the dependence on one industry and a few corner stone establishments. The government is working on a wide range of measures that can have long-term positive effects on coastal communities. These include: on conversion measures in the municipalities concerned, strengthening the marine value creation programme and the regional policy instruments, an offensive North Sea initiative and measures to improve access to fresh fish raw material. The government will follow developments in coastal communities closely to see if further action needs to be taken. We have an ethical obligation to take care of our marine and coastal areas in a responsible way, so that we can continue to exploit the resources and opportunities provided by the sea, in an eternity perspective, and so that small and large places along the coast can provide a good framework for people's lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1574	I fully agree with the Council of State that it is important to manage fisheries resources in a good way, and if you want to do so, it is important to have international cooperation. But it is also very important to be present in the sea areas that you manage and also have to control. Equally important is having a good lawwork in place. Recently, the Royal Court has freed a Russian trawler and a cargo vessel for illegal transhipment by fishing at the Bear Island. That verdict shows that there is a big hole in the law, and so now the government has been sitting for two years without doing anything to seal this hole, and has only two years left. When will the Council of State concretely reinforce this law, so that the Government follows up in action what is generally just said in beautiful words?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1583	In the course of the two years this government has been sitting, we have put in a power offensive against overfishing in the Barents Sea. We have strengthened the resources of the Coast Guard, and we have strengthened the resources of the Directorate of Fisheries to survive overfishing. We have put in place a number of international agreements, and we have done well to strengthen the regulatory framework. Some examples of this are the new Port State Control regime that came into force from 1 May this year. It obliges both the flag State and the port State in a much stronger way than before. We have put in place new, reinforced blacklists, which allow us to blacklist more vessels. And we'll put in place more homes in the marine resource law that will soon be presented. So it's a fact that the more we get in place in this work, the more we also become aware of the loopholes that exist in the law. It is a continuous effort to have an up-to-date and powerful piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1590	I am a little surprised that the Minister for Fisheries did not use the opportunity this time to tell us what is going to be the fisheries policy of this government. You're already in your third out of four years of government, and there's actually a lot of people waiting for what the peaks are going to be. But my question to the Minister for Fisheries is whether she wants to take some initiative in the sabotage of the ‘Willlasen senior’ whale-catcher, which was lowered a month ago outside Svolvær port. There are a lot of people in Fisheries and Coast Norway who are now waiting for the initiative 'from Helga' to quote what is wanted. Although an international environmental organisation has assumed responsibility for this, the police have so far been unable to provide any evidence. A sabotage against Norwegian whaling and against Norwegian fishing industry deserves much more attention. In this case, owners and employees, even a whole community of communities, must not be destroyed with the boat – much to the delight of the saboteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1597	I do not agree with Mr Kristiansen's description of whether the Government is delivering on fisheries and aquaculture policy. In the last few months, we have presented a strategy for a competitive Norwegian aquaculture industry, which I believe was very well received both in the industry and among local communities along the coast. We have put forward a fresh fish strategy and a big message on the policy of king crabs, and in the spring we were put in place structural policy. In the case of the sabotage against the whaling shot in Lofoten, I am very familiar with that matter. It is, of course, unacceptable for some to be involved in sabotaging both legal and sustainable resource use and those involved in it. I have strong compassion for the family that was affected. I am following this matter very carefully. I am now waiting for the shipping company and the insurance company in question to agree on the matter before the department takes any initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1604	The government has expressed great ambitions in the field of the environment. Old shipwreck along the coast are ticking environmental bombs. According to the Coastal Plant, there are 2,000 tons of oil in wrecks along the coast, divided by 18 wrecks. According to the Coastal Plant, these wrecks represent a risk of pollution if they crack, and one has therefore recommended a plan of measures for discharge. In recent times, we've seen examples of a state of anxiety. According to the coastal population in Florø, it tastes like an old shipwreck. I understand that the population fears the consequences for the environment, animal life and fisheries if the oil is suddenly released from the wreckage. How will the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Fisheries protect the environment and the coastal fisheries against oil spills from old shipwreck?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1611	It's more than 2,000 wrecks along the Norwegian coast. On the basis of that, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast asked the Coastal Department to report on the state of these wrecks and what should possibly be done with them. The Coastal Plant report was available in December 2006, where the Coastal Plant pointed specifically to the state of five designated wrecks, and said that it should start to assess those wrecks in particular in 2008. And then we've recently had a new situation with the wreck in Moss, i.e. "Nordvard", which is one of the five wrecks that the Coast Guard pointed out. The Coastal Plant has now made an assessment of the wreck, and we await a recommendation from the Coastal Works one of the nearest days. Of course, if the situation is acute, we have to treat it as an emergency. Of course, as far as the other wrecks are concerned, we should follow developments very closely. Coastal people should feel confident that we have an overview and can take action when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1620	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1623	Both the census and Prime Minister Stoltenberg today mention the government's and Storting's common goal of full child-care coverage as soon as possible, possibly by the end of 2008. I think it's sad that the government doesn't have the same level of ambition in terms of health care coverage. I don't think anyone else but the people of the Progress Party have actually said that we should also have a goal of full health care coverage. If we take the previous agreement, we need health care places for 25 pst. Of them over 80 years, we are missing per. the current date about 13 000 sick homes. One of the reasons for this is of course the funding system, which makes it the municipalities that have the financial responsibility for the hospitals. We have many times proposed adding financial responsibility to popular security and having statutory legal rights to a nursing home when public acceptance of the need exists. Exactly the same people who today assess whether a person needs hospitalization can do so in another system. So we think it's sad that you're not more ambitious than what the government has been talking about, which is up to 2015. It should happen a lot, a lot rather than what the government has ambitions about. When we compare with kindergarten policy, it is also something that I find very remarkable. Government parties have fully accepted private kindergartens – private kindergartens are, in fact, also the reason for approaching the goal of full child care – while, in the case of other service production, care for older people who need it, ideologically, absolutely no private solutions. Actually, of course, it would have been reasonable to welcome private people to organise and operate nursing homes. Some people do it, a big international listed company, Adecco, runs Ammerudlunden Hospital in Oslo. It's not entirely without reason that it's what best scores on the Oslo user surveys. They also have the lowest sick leave, at 4 pst., while the normal health care home in Norway is around 10–12 pst. In other words, private individuals have shown that they can provide elderly care services, including health care services, better than public services. We also know that there are many professional organisations that could quickly establish hospitals. I have no doubt that we had a government funding based on activity-based income, which is now under development, among other things. in the municipality of Stavanger, where, depending on the level of activity required by the individual resident or patient, some of our hotel chains could quickly have established a good number of hospital places. So it's possible to put an end to the unworthy situation we have with a significant shortage of hospitals, which has resulted in that in many municipalities, almost all municipalities, completely independent of party political governance, the threshold for getting a sick home place has gradually increased in recent years. Those who are in a nursing home now are weaker and worse off than was the case 15 and 20 years ago. I wish the Government of the throne had this time announced a goal of full hospital coverage, not just a number, but full coverage based on the needs of the Norwegian people. I have also noticed – I just want to mention it briefly – that the government is talking a lot about poverty reduction, and that it should be so difficult. As Siv Jensen said in her speech – and there is a proposal from her on behalf of the Progress Party – it is therefore possible to increase the minimum pension to exceed the EU poverty line. It's not difficult, it's just to use some of the huge economic resources available to the Norwegian state to cater for those who are older today, and not just to save for those who get older a few years later. We hope to agree on a goal of raising the minimum pension as soon as possible above the EU poverty line. Actually, the Storting can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1633	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1636	After all, it would have been tempting to follow up the Senior General of the Advancement Party, Carl I. Hagen, his post on nursing homes, but I thought we would challenge Carl I. Hagen on the climate issue. He's in many ways the Nestor of the party, and it would have been exciting to hear what kind of advice he's now giving in these difficult climates in internal meetings of the Progress Party. I believe that most parties – as has been shown in the debate here – take the climate challenge seriously, and that most of us stress that the UN Climate Panel, the world's leading researchers, is 90 pst. probability determines that man-made things are with and change the climate of the earth. It's a very serious challenge we're facing. So we know over the last few years that the representatives of the Progress Party to the degrees have referred to this as hysteria, as black paint, yes, we have many descriptions of how this really relates – they are obviously better climate scientists than what we are. So the question for Carl I. Hagen is, what kind of advice is now giving Carl I. Hagen to the big group of the Progress Party? Are man-made climate change part of reality, or are they not?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1641	When the question is so simple, what advice do I give to the board of directors of the Progress Party in our group meetings, I will give a very brief and simple answer: I am still giving my advice at the group meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1646	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, is concerned about the elderly, and it is good that we have enough hands to take care of the elderly and the sick in the future. I fully agree, it's a huge challenge, not least because the number of older people will increase considerably in the future. Fortunately, we live longer, because of drugs and other things. At the same time, however, we know that the Progress Party has said that they will remove public support for kindergartens and that parents should rather get that money and decide over them. Doesn't the representative Carl I. Hagen see a problem in that many people can then choose to stay home with their kids instead of taking advantage of a kindergarten, and that therefore we don't get the hands that are so needed in the care of the elderly? This applies to both men and women, but mainly women, who can then choose to stay home with the kids instead of using kindergarten. By using kindergarten, they can get into professional life and do an important job for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1651	I think I'll answer so that in a society there'll always be work tasks that stay gone because you solve problems other than before. It is also possible to buy services and goods from other countries instead of producing them themselves. We have a situation today where we have many people who are employed in the ICT industry, who did not even exist 15 years ago, if we look back. In the old days, we had thousands of people working in shoe factories and in clothing factories. Those jobs are gone. There will always be changes. If we provide funding for the care of the elderly, as we have proposed, automatically through the public welfare system based on statutory legal rights, we may also be able to provide for a better level of pay for many of those working in the care of the elderly. If we let go of private people, who have a completely different dynamics, a completely different way of solving things, and creating attractive jobs, I'm not nervous at all about recruiting the care professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1658	I noticed that Mr Hagen did not want to inform him of the advice he gave to his co-representatives in the Group of the Progressive Alliance, and I fully understand that. But then I have to try to reform the question, and then I want to say, what does Carl I. Hagen think about the man-made climate change we are now seeing? You could also say it this way: does Carl I. Hagen agree that we see climate change that is man-made?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1663	As far as climate policy is concerned, the Progress Party Group has presented a relatively comprehensive document, which was being discussed in the Stortinget in June. We have also made it clear that we are going to be involved in taking our Kyoto commitments seriously. We've always thought that when the bulk of the population enters into international conventions, we should also try to follow them up, as a commitment, or try to get out of them. We haven't done that with Kyoto. In fact, we have welcomed some of the signals that have now arrived in the climate communication, and in particular from the Prime Minister earlier. We've been saying for years that it's going to be galimatias to spend huge amounts of money in Norway to clean up CO2, when you can get for the same amount – I think the Prime Minister said 10-20 times more CO2 cleaning for the same amount in other countries. That's an attitude we've always stood for, and then we want the red-green government to welcome you. We think it makes extraordinary sense to think about cost-effectiveness. Then I just have to add that it is strange that the government is building some polluting gas power plants in Germany, then.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1676	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1679	Norway is doing very well. The job is high in score. The unemployment rate is the lowest in over 20 years, and it is still falling. The order reserve for Norwegian enterprises is very good, and Norwegian households have a very good economic situation. The local economy is in a state of disorientation after the swallowing of the previous government. The red-green government's commitment to a better community economy has given more to kindergartens, schools, care and care. Several have been given a place in the kindergarten. Schools have given them a better offer, and several older people have also received a better offer. There has also been a great increase in the rights of health, and there are now record numbers of patients receiving help. We use more and more for transportation. Therefore, it is right to state that the Government delivers the policy that the red-green parties promised before the previous election. One is doing a great job of fulfilling the Soria Moria statement. The outlook for the future is also very good. With political governance, it is possible to develop our society even better. But a positive development does not give itself. It depends on the choices we make, and the priorities we make. As several speakers have been in today, Norway has once again become one of the world's best countries to live in. Some seem to believe that this is a development that has come about by itself, or that we end up at the top of that list just because we have large oil and gas revenues. It's not like that. Having large natural resources is not enough. On the contrary, many of the poorest countries in the world are also the richest in natural resources. If we look more closely at the list of good living conditions, we will see that it is the other Nordic countries that are on the list. What's common to these countries is that one has chosen to bet on organizing society in a similar way, with little differences between people and a large public sector. Internationally, this is often referred to as the Nordic model. I want to argue that this is the social-democratic model, and one must be able to say that that model has been closed very well. He has given good conditions to people most, and not least shows more recent research from banking and others that these countries are also the best to invest in. In other words, in my view, there are no other social models that have given a better result for most people. The community's bet gives the best result for the inhabitants of a country. What has surprised me most in this debate today is the enormously negative description of reality that many have given, especially on the basis that one knows that these are representatives who really want a completely different social model than the one that has produced so good results here in the Nordic region. With the large revenue we have from oil and gas, there is not a lack of money that is our biggest challenge in the future, but how we can manage to use it. There is all the pressure in the economy today, and we're not going back to 2003 until we see how bad things can go. In less than a year, more than 20,000 industrial jobs disappeared in this country, mainly because of the loss of competitiveness, resulting from the high dollar price. The interest rate is now rising again, and it is important that you do not make the same mistake as last time. Both LO and NHO have warned the governor. These warnings I think Norway Bank has to take seriously, but not least this is a warning to us about sitting here in this room. An excessive use of money may seem to tear down rather than build up. Three days after the local elections, the Foreign Affairs Committee was on its way to Africa. I must say that when I was standing in a cardboard shed in a so-called shantytown in Namibia, the Norwegian local elections and the Norwegian election campaign got a slightly different perspective. At least I'm very happy that we in Norway might look beyond our own limits, that we're not just ourselves enough, that we are offensively committed to being an active international actor, and that we are willing to give support. I am pleased that it will be further developed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1698	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1701	During the local election campaign, according to the NRK, the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee was alarmed by a debate between Dagfinn Høybräten and Carl I. Hagen, and he was particularly alarmed at their attitude to the so-called wall on the West Bank. I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs whether he does not agree that this wall, no matter how regrettable we may find it, is that the reality suggests that it has come into place, has actually had an effect, and that it saves life. Nor should the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee let his frustration go beyond, for example. Your own government, when it chose to give recognition to Hamas, an organization that is a lot of the background to the situation at all that you saw need to build such a wall?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1707	What was negative about that debate during the election campaign was that one to get a small selection group was willing to give many principles on the boat. So there are international rules on how a country should behave and how an occupying power should behave, and there is no doubt that in some areas Israel has broken these rules. In one of the areas in which it is broken, this wall, as we do. looks go into occupied territory. In my view, there should be entirely different methods of avoiding acts of violence in this area. There is a total lack of trust between the parties in the area. It's important to prevent. I actually think the role that Norway has played, both historically and in the last few years, is helping to make it possible for the parties to sit down around the same table, and rebuilding confidence so that one can have for the future as open borders here as one has in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1714	I fully agree with Aksensen that excessive use of money is a problem for the Norwegian economy. The problem is only if the Minister of Finance sees the same thing. Over to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee’s main area: the ‘Last in line, last in school’ report by Save Barna shows that countries affected by armed conflict receive all the least means of assistance for education, despite the fact that the UN’s Millennium Goals commit to ensuring all children’s education by 2015. Redd Barna goes on to say that they want Norway to increase aid for education and to give this particular priority. Furthermore, Redd Barna's Secretary-General says that Norway must take a leading role. Does the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee want to follow it up, that Norway takes the leading role in education for those affected by armed conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1721	I would like Gitmark to close up with the group meeting in Right, where the Right will come up with its alternative state budget. One of the big surprises last year was that Right went away from the unity that has existed in Norway that we should have a goal of using 1 pst. by GNI on aid policy. And of course, if we reduce the amount of aid, then the chances of achieving the goal, such as the one we're looking for, are also going to be. providing education to people, reduced. For us in the Working Party, it's important to take over the signals we get. We are always open to arrange the assistance so that he is as targeted as possible. And there is no doubt that contributing to education is one of the most important measures to stimulate growth in the lowest-scale countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1728	If Akselsen wasn't so concerned about it, the Prime Minister was faced with the two most important challenges as he saw it, namely the environment and development. Both things are about building up the world's poorest so that they don't die of poverty and simple diseases and we don't let many people escape. The Christian People's Party took in our initiative to give even more of the poorest countries zero customs duties, so that they can easily sell their goods to Norway. We do it because we think it's important to help them help themselves. We also see that assistance alone is not enough. A report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which came earlier this year, showed that we are dealing less and less from the poorest countries. At the same time, imports from, for example: EU. That means we have to do more than just give them zeros. We need to help them get across export barriers so that they can sell their goods. My question to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee is: Will he support a proposal to use more of the aid to help the poorest countries become self-helpers and to sell more of their goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1737	First of all, I would say that there was a commendable proposal by the Christian People's Party, and it also got the support of a consensual committee. The government is now doing what it needs to do to follow up the proposal, and will come back to Stortinget with the first. Some of the problems of the poorest countries are that they have nothing to export, and therefore they are not the aid of zero customs duties either. I am absolutely sure that if we are to help these countries to more fully stand on their own, we must contribute to the development of nutrition. That's why there's one of the areas that we have to focus on in the future. In this way, I believe that I fully agree with what the representative here addresses in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1744	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1747	Trontals are not always the most gripping prose, but nevertheless it can be said: Show me your values, and show me your sentences! The government has done something so deserving at the beginning of the throne, before you get to the trial process – a big message on it, your big message, etc. – like taking something from the Soria Moria statement. But for a left-wing man, there is something quite fundamental that is missing, first of all, that we need to solve the development challenges, and if we want to solve the climate challenges, we need to rely on knowledge and knowledge of research, that research is part of our cultural identity. It's part of what makes us build a democracy. It's part of the development of nutrition. I can't find these words. We find sentences of the type: ‘Increasing research effort is a goal for the Government.’ It reminds me of the time in my youth when Maoists ran around me and threw around with quotations of the type ‘summer is the warmest season’. So, there are sentences that don't give you obligations, they don't make sense and they don't give you identity. Then you say something about school. Tomorrow is the World Teachers' Day. One would think that when it comes to investing in people with knowledge, something could be said as important as that well-educated teachers and safe teachers are a support for building such an important joint institution as the Norwegian public common school. No, you can't find it either. When I take this up, it's because when you don't carry these values, we might have the explanation why the research was gone over the first two years of the red-green government – it just went away. It is strongly described on Soria Moria, and then government members in turn have explained that what was done with the research, was good, until the Swedish government, with Kristin Halvorsen in front, a few days after the election says that here we really bombed. It is very possible to lose half of the voters to say something like that. I will not recommend it as a general method. It is a much better method to build on the fact that research is absolutely fundamental to building a society, it is fundamental to cultural identity, it is fundamental to democracy, it is fundamental to tackling climate challenges, it is fundamental to carrying out the development challenges that the Prime Minister spoke about in a strong way, among other things. today, and it is absolutely essential for the unborn business. The type of obligatory sentences means that a government has a project, and the Left cannot see that this government has a project that will promise research for general education, research that is basic research, research that creates the unborn business. We can't see it. Now it's possible that it's going to show up tomorrow in terms of numbers, and then we're going to tell ourselves about it, but in the structure of the languages of the throne and in the language of the throne, we can't see it. I have to say it so strongly, because the government chooses to signal its values completely initially by breaking the language of the throne and using its valuable sentences. But there are not the very basic sentences that a left-wing man would at least have expected to hear from both an SV and a social democrat and a central partyist, namely that knowledge is power. That's basically what the people who were before us built on. That's what made them build a society that makes us have something that we can be very proud of. And that's what gives us the opportunity to shape society in the future. But you get the choices here. You get clear choices, like it's more important to have more hours in school than to strengthen your teachers. That is a clear priority. The left deeply disagrees. We'd rather strengthen what teachers have to do than spend more hours in school. It says we need to get a message about research recruitment. No, we can't make a big message about researchers. All of us who have a certain background with sitting in a government know that you're blind, you make a big message. If you have a majority government, yes, you do things through propositions and budgets. The announcement of the cancellation is the case of the lost Council of State – when you have seen the Ministry of Finance so badly inside your eyes so many times that the Prime Minister has to break through and give some words of comfort. This does not give a boost to having enough people who will go into the research as fellows/post.doc.-er. After losing the fight for the long, sad list called public building on the state's wish list, 1 to 50 plus 1 to 50 here and there, yes, you might be allowed to move $200 million of a fund and say it's a power cap to provide scientific equipment. There's nothing more than a procurator's fist. So what the Left says is that we expect a government that has such powerful values about the environment, climate and development to recognize a basic heritage, which is at least the historical United Left and Ancient Social Democrats, SVs and central parties, that knowledge is power. Then you can't talk about this as some kind of average social economist saying that a used crown is a lost crown. We know that the budgetary logic sometimes sounds like that. But in this area, we're using the heads to bet on the future. And left: where is the glow of the future in this government in terms of research, in terms of climate, the unborn business and development goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1765	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1768	The closest I'm going to get research into what I'm going to say is that I've done some studies of the Left Party. When Dørum's party leader, Sponheim, sees politics from above, he would prefer not to go into the Progress Party with fire pliers. But the left will build the society "from below," said the same Sponheim, when, like Dørum earlier today, he was quite above. And where construction is going to happen, firetanga is several places replaced with fatherhood and wish for happiness on the road. I am thinking in particular of Oslo, and I wonder how constructive it is for the Left to support a progress party that will then be able to control with the Marka protection, green lungs, public transport and, not least, the fight against poverty, which we know Dørum is deeply concerned about. Is the representative Dørum concerned that it will go down and home with Left's heart issues when the Left, who sits with the key, opens the door to the very important position of the Advance Party here in the capital? Does this help to build up or down the Oslo community?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1777	The replicator reminds me of my childhood social democrats, who said, "See you, Doorum, we have the power." It's like we've now gone through a election campaign where we've heard from the workers' party people of all the horrors, including the Prime Minister, that in the capital there is a vote on the Left one vote on the Progress Party. And then today we've heard from Siv Jensen that a voice on the left is basically a voice on the Workers' Party. It's fascinating to be a member of such a party, but I think you should judge the party by what you're doing. And what you do is that Hafslund is not sold in Oslo, but together with a civil cooperation alliance, with an excellent town councillor from Right, Erling Lae, it's created an ambitious climate policy plan that can be copied in most Norwegian municipalities. It has been given a lift on public transport that makes the tram a rolling pavement, and has shifted from being a museum object to becoming a transport policy effective thing. A metropolitan policy has been adopted that recognizes its university and business as leaving the university, because it is known that when knowledge meets business, ideas and businesses are created. And you realize that in this beautiful city there's entrepreneurial activity so it sucks after. But social democrats are cordially welcome. They also live here, and they're very welcome to be on this beautiful building project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1784	The government wants to increase the total research effort in the country and has therefore set itself the OECD target, 3 pst. of the gross national budget. 2 pst. the financing shall be the contribution of the business community itself. The largest companies are state-owned, such as StatoilHydro, Telenor, Yara, Statkraft and others. But these don't take their share of the funding. The government has therefore stated in the ownership notice that ownership is to be used to govern state companies to participate with their share in order to increase research efforts in enterprises. My question to representative Odd Einar Dørum is: Does not the Left see the need to give governance signals to state companies, so that research and value creation can be increased and future jobs secured here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1792	Since in a not too distant past in my life I have been the owner of a large state-owned company, namely Telenor, I understand that intelligent communication can be conducted with intelligent leaders and intelligent controllers about how to act in such a way that industrial locomotives also contribute to research efforts. That the government will find the intelligent form of it, I'm sure. But what the Left is concerned about is that one should also take care of the intelligence and creativity of the many small ones. We very deeply regret that we have tightened up the tax FUNN scheme for the year in which we are now in, because then you take the whole undergrowth of Norwegian business, the many small ones who can often have an idea, and who need unbureaucratic arrangements. Once again, it is felt that there is a need for fiscal policy not to have items that run smoothly, as it is called. But you had an unbureaucratic system that was tightened up. The left deeply regrets that it was tightened up, and we will follow closely when we are presented with a budget, if we show this handshake to the many small ones in business too, for they cannot be ignored. In my life as a left-wing politician, I have often felt that left-wing socialists and social democrats have no sense of what we can call active owners. They often like directors the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1799	After Odd Einar Dørum's posts, we can at least agree that he must have had a traumatic experience when he was in government and was going to submit a message, because that meant that he had no money to carry out anything. I am very pleased that this government is pursuing a different policy in this way. A message will be sent to set the limits for the money that will come later. Otherwise, I'm a little shocked by the fact that this is the opposition's throne speech, where they're going to come up with their alternative policy. For as I have interpreted the contributions of both Dørum and his leader, Lars Sponheim, it is more and more to remove from the government that has been the point. Let me then refer to Hill-Marta Solberg's posts, where she pointed out that the research appropriations were increased by 900 million. kr. Then I agree with Dørum that knowledge gives power. Then he might have had the knowledge before he says that the research has been cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1808	There was no trauma to sitting in a government. You get a childhood training of tough social democrats who say, "See you, we have the power." You're going to be death-realistic when you know what you're doing, so I know the difference between real dollars and non-currency. But what is the problem with the Government is that the big shots come instead of declared policies promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. Stepping up the percentages of gross domestic product in order to raise research, stepping-up obligations on fellow students, stepping-up obligations on scientific equipment – it is when this is gone and replaced by notifications, that my comment is valid. If you do everything else you say, a big message can be life-giving because it creates something for the future. If I am allowed to say it briefly to the representative Klungland: The representative Sponheim has said in a brief way that the Left does not want Jens or Jensen in government in Norway. The left, as a bourgeois centre party, wants a civil solution between the centre and the right party. That's what we've been saying. We've been saying that for quite a long time, and it's hardly surprising that we're repeating it. We say with boldness that we have the right to stand for that position. We're not socialists, but we don't want to be involved in a blue-blue trial conducted by the Progress Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1815	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1818	In June 2007, the government presented a major communication on Norwegian climate policy with sectoral climate objectives. We shall reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector by between 15 and 25 pst. compared with expected emissions in 2020, no new measures are foreseen. CO2 emissions occurring in transport cannot be cleaned, and a lower emission target therefore requires that we use less fossil fuels. This will in practice mean that society needs to use cars and fuels that reduce CO2 emissions in total, we need to travel in more environmentally friendly ways or reduce transport needs. Traffic mitigation measures are particularly important in urban areas. They only work when both carrots and whips are in place. We must have a strong commitment to public transport and walking and cycling roads, and this will enable more people to leave the car standing. Local and central authorities must work together because we have different responsibilities. There is a constructive debate about making toll payments more intelligent, for example. cow pricing, as well as managing a number of other instruments that are restrictive against unnecessary car use into the city centre, special parking policy and land policy. The government wants to support this issue, among other things. through the so-called reward scheme for better public transport and less use of cars. The government announces in the climate action plan that we will review the tax system with a view to promoting environmentally friendly behaviour. We have already changed the basis for setting the one-time fee. The conversion has reduced average CO2 emissions for new cars by 11 pst. from 2006 to the first half of 2007. It's good! The government presented an introduction programme for biofuels in the context of the revised national budget. In 2009, the share of biofuels in the Norwegian market shall be five per cent, corresponding to reductions of approximately 400000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per. years. It is important to ensure environmental and social protection in the production and import of biofuels. The current department has a dialogue with oil companies on how to develop a system to assess energy and environmental efficiency across the whole value chain. The government will also increase the commitment to developing 2nd generation biofuels in Norway. In dealing with climate challenges in the transport sector, I focus on a clearer differentiation in urban-country transport policy. A report from SINTEF demonstrates that a better path leads to reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. While new district or tribal roads lead to shorter journeys and less emissions without creating traffic growth, the climate impact of road development in cities is fuelled by traffic growth. As there is the largest car use and the strongest population growth in the areas around the largest cities, this is also where we have the biggest environmental challenges in the transport sector, and it is possible to achieve the greatest emission reductions. The government believes it is fundamentally important to ensure good and equivalent postal services throughout the country. Einrecht is a good traveler to ensure the economic basis for this. The fact that in 2006, the Government was joined by the Storting to reverse the abolition of the one-rights right now ensures a stable framework for an equivalent country-wide postal policy in the future. The EU has now followed up the same line and postponed the process. The EU Commission presented proposals for an amending Directive in October 2006. Here it was proposed to abolish the rights of entry in Europe from 1 January 2009. Following intensive discussion in the Member States, where Norway has also actively expressed its view on postponing liberalisation, the EU Council meeting on 1 October 2007 reached a compromise. The suspension of one-rights is now postponed at the earliest in 2011 and 2013 for a number of Member States. Although the decision is not yet final, the government is satisfied that it has been possible to renegotiate such a postponement. This will be of great benefit to postal customers in Norway. In the future, the government will carefully assess the impact of the amending directive and how we maintain the Norwegian postal policy with a clear objective of good and equivalent postal services to people and businesses throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1851	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1854	Better roads provide good environmental impact. Then we have to build faster, and we have to build cheaper. Earlier today, we have heard the Prime Minister invite large foreign entrepreneurs for assignments in Norway. Unfortunately, it's the way we stand so that the unreals come. Today, October 4th, the Road Directorate’s own staff newspaper has a director, whose name is: ‘Many of the road construction tasks in this country are too small for large European companies to find the interesting ones.’ What will the Council of State do to ensure that they just find Norwegian road projects more interesting, so that we can build cheaper and get more money, and that we actually start corridor development over longer distances instead of running with the clumsy road development that we do in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1864	Like the representative of Sortevik, the Council of State and the Government are concerned that we should be speeding up road development in this country. It eats people and business. What this government has done, unlike the previous one, which also had extensive cooperation with the Progress Party on Budget for three years, is that it has increased the licenses to transport. That's probably the most important thing. Secondly, instead of launching a lot of new projects, as the previous government did, it has kept pressure on and progressed on existing projects to maximise the benefits of society and to complete them. In other words, we've put ourselves on a different line than the previous government did in several areas of society policy. The government wants to continue this way of operating a trade policy. This will also mean that we can get more out of stock and that would be more interesting for foreign entrepreneurs to appreciate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1869	The Council of State said that this government is going to lay down on a different line. And I had really hoped that the third year of government goes into now, but the line is exactly the same. It's to blame for the previous government, that everything that was done then was bad, and that now it's actually going so much better. Then I must say that I am amazed and confused by the policy of the Council of State on transport. On the one hand she wants to fish drivers with a rush-time charge, on the other hand she cannot get enough staff to even drive the too few trains we have here in Norway. On the one hand, the Government will boast of historic road construction, on the other hand, putting an untraditional solution on the booth such as OPS and stopping all efficiency in terms of competitive outsourcing. Then we see at the same time, that the representative Blackevik was involved, that the costs now seem to go up. So it's going to be less money. What untraditional approach will the Government now take to improve the efficiency of road development and transition to environmentally friendly public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1876	Governments are more committed to both public transport and the traditional field of road and rail development. When it comes to staffing within the NSB, there is now a good plan for recruitment, so it's going to be a better situation. The fact that we have a labour market that is difficult results in strong competition for workers both in the railway sector and in the development of different transport projects. What we've seen in the last month is that there are fewer offers, fewer offers for different projects, and, unfortunately, prices have gone up. The government will provide a good budget with a good framework for civil society development in the years ahead. It shall provide an evaluation of OPS and shall follow it up. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1881	With the Prime Minister at the head, the red-green government presented its Northern Region Strategy in Tromsø by bringing together a larger number of government councils than it has ever been in Northern Norwegian soil. This should indicate that the entire government has a responsibility to get a powerful North Region bet. And here we also got promises of increased investment in infrastructure in the north. Then we find it very disappointing, from the Christian People's Party's point of view, that it is, in fact, largely just the foreign minister who has taken the consequences of the Northern Region strategy. The Minister for Transport has provided a good budget, almost in line with the National Transport Plan, and it has applauded the Christian People's Party. But, unfortunately, in the case of the North Norway census, it has been completely flat – partially reduced. And then my question is to the Minister of Transport: When will she discover that her government actually has a North-Area bet going on? And when will this be reflected in the annual transport budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1889	The Minister of Transport is aware that we have a Northern Region strategy. What the Minister and Government do is to be the first government to follow up their national transport plan. There is no doubt that the programme of action in this area, which is the result of the previous government's work on the national transport plan, is well suited to the needs of the northern regions. I am also in the process of developing a new national transport plan, which the Government will discuss and present to the Stortinget in 2008. The needs of the Nordic countries will clearly be an important part of the work, which will then show how this government will give priority to transport policy both economically and geographically in the years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1898	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1901	The Government shall pursue an active and comprehensive policy to combat crime. Crime should not pay off, we heard in the throne speech on Tuesday – fine words from a majority government that has a Minister of Justice who does not keep what he promises. As an opposition politician, he promised in fines and buckets something he has not been able to pay. He promised and promised when he sat in opposition, but when he has now become Minister of Justice, the truth finally comes out. Why should we believe him this year, that it won't pay to commit crime? Every day we experience that we have lawless conditions in this country. The criminals laugh at us, and the police stand powerless. The police are screaming every day for more jobs and more resources, but what do they get? Well, they get more tasks that need to be done within already tight budgets. One doesn't get far with more newly educated policemen if you can't afford to hire them. This weekend we could read again about a rape weekend in Oslo. Lack of resources makes the investigation start late. In the summer, we had a case in Rogaland about one that was taken on a new job with a large drug consignment. It was not investigated, and he was not taken – due to insufficient resources. That's how I could still do this whole number. The lack of resources in the police is precarious. The problems are growing, and crime is becoming more and more brutal. The Minister of Justice today appears to be the best friend of the criminals. If the police are able to solve a case, there are no places to pay for it or to keep the criminals in prison. Then it turns out they're going out and doing new criminal acts again. Are there such states we want in this country? Now it is actually time for the Minister of Justice to be conscious of his responsibilities and to give money to this sector. The Minister of Justice has also boasted that the settlement queues have fallen. We have a government that in the last two years has had the goal of getting rid of the cows, costing what it's going to cost. More than 300 new prison sites are being glamorized — open prisons, not closed, as the criminal services need, and as the trade union community asks. This is why the Progress Party is today promoting a proposal to move forward in the construction of the Inner Salt Prison – something that the Minister of Justice promised when he was in opposition. In 2006 alone, criminals were released early, corresponding to 150 years. It is not strange that the housing queues go down on such a thing. What are the numbers going to be this year? As the Progress Party sees it, the Minister of Justice is now moving the problems from the inside of the prison to the outside, which goes far beyond the victims and relatives. When the Storting in our house dealt with a matter of getting the cows down, it was getting foreigners who were in Norwegian prisons, to zone in their home country, one of the measures. But what happens? Nothing. The Minister of Justice hides that they are negotiating favourable agreements with the EU and difficult legislation. Today it is approx. 140 Lithuanians in Norwegian prisons. The survey in the summer of one of the prisoners showed that they thought they were on a luxury vacation in Norway and in fact it had very good behind locks and punches in Norwegian prisons. The criminals from Eastern Europe are overrepresented in Norwegian prisons. Now we actually don't need any more plans. Now we need real action. Why not provide financial compensation to countries that accept their own criminals who have committed crimes in Norway? This would really help in the settlement queues here in the country and worked preventively on those who come to Norway and commit criminal acts. By prioritizing the return of the criminal foreigners, we had liberated a lot of settlements in Norwegian prisons. There are probably never more election vows than in a campaign. It is also done in this election campaign. But now the seriousness is going on again. The Trontals showed that the Government has major plans for the justice sector. Don't just let this be great plans with words and promises! It is time that the Government now takes responsibility for its promises. Nothing the Minister of Justice has presented to the United Kingdom regarding the fight against crime will be preventative if it does not comply with appropriations. It must follow money in good words. If not, the Council of State will forever and always be known as a Minister of Promise Crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1927	A bigger issue than ensuring that it is possible to live on our planet in the future, it is not possible to have on the agenda and to commit to it. Because the option does not exist, energy policy and consumption need to change in order to take on climate responsibility. Most of the SV speakers have spoken about this today. That's why I'm going to choose to focus on two other issues. One matter is almost not mentioned today. It's about how we can live together in a multicultural and globalized world. It's very important. In fact, there is an alternative to not adapting to a multicultural society. The option is to shut down behind walls and borders – sit at home and take care of yourself and refuse everyone else to come in and get out. That's what I think none of us want. But that means that we have to deal with it, and work to look at the multicultural and not least the multilingual as an advantage and not as a problem in a society. The Nordics want to get out of here. We want to work wherever we want, live wherever we want, come home whenever we want – have our rights globalized. Then we have to have a policy that makes it an opportunity for more, and we have to live with it. The alternative I don't think any of us want. So that's fair distribution. In that regard, I would like to commend the Government in their job to bring justice internationally. There has been a great deal of effort in that area from the Government, and the signals we have received promise for the future. Even in the case of fair distribution at home, the fight against unemployment has been one of the hallmarks of this government, and it has been successful. I'll come back to that. It's very much settled for those who have the hardest. In particular, benefits for those who do not have and are not able to get a job. Fewer people live on the lowest performances now, and that's good. But it helps very little for those who have to. The government has now set out to review the whole of social assistance, both to look at the level and to look at the unexplained and unfair differences. I believe that this work must result in state rates based on a level of living, non-discrimination throughout the country and legal certainty also for those who live on social assistance and who have the most difficulty. In the field of work, the Government has done a lot, and the qualification programme is now under way. The NAV reform is in progress. A lot of this will help, and we know that the strong commitment to action and reintroduction works. Action and rehabilitation work especially when they contain the quality and competence needed for people to actually get a job. We see that from many of the measures that have been around the country, and now we also see that more and more people actually get work when they have been reintroduced. But I want to say that we have to apply even more radical innovation in this area. I would like to mention two measures. One is the cheeky reindeer garden. So there we get three important things for the future solved at once. One is that we get high-quality kindergartens. It is a very important matter for SV, for the Government, and for all young children's parents and children in this country. And we get them with high quality, precisely because they're doing a back-up job that makes them especially focused on having high quality, both for the kids and on the re-introduction work. They ensure that we get labour that is qualified for the labour market, both in kindergartens and elsewhere, because there are very many well-qualified people living in those who are out of work today – only they get a chance. The third thing we do is we get people into kindergartens who wouldn't have thought they could work there. I have met both carpenters and plumbers who have found out in their 40s that this is the work they have longed for. I've also seen how successful it is, both for them and for the children. So finally, I think we need to challenge new industries in this area. That is why I have taken the initiative and challenged both the ICT industry and the back-up industry to work together to see how we can ensure the unemployed digital skills that they lack and that the labour market is now lacking. We all know that especially young people are concerned about mobile phones, sounds and all of this that may irritate some of us adults sometimes, but I believe that we need to address this when we are looking specifically at 'dropouts' in high school, and ensure that this competence, as these young people and very many of the unemployed want, but as they are lacking, is systematically put into work through our efforts aimed at the unemployed and at those who are re-entering.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1942	Just after Christmas comes the big news about the relationship between state and church. The starting point of the Labour Party is that the State should no longer have a public state religion. As far as I have registered, there are no parties that argue for a Norwegian official religion today. Religious belief is a private matter, but the cultural heritage of Norwegian society and a policy of supporting religious practice are a public matter. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the people's Church has its foundations with its members, so how much the state should give up its governance of the Norwegian Church, depends on how we can ensure that the elections in the Church's organs are made more open, so that more people participate. It is important that the state's relationship with the Church is not determined by a mere majority. We will therefore work for the widest possible majority for a new system between state and church. This will be the main issue of the Church, Education and Research Committee in the next two years. But also in school we get a discussion about the place of religion. The CRL profession has encountered opposition and needs to undergo some changes as a result of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The aim of the subject was to find a balance between Christianity and other views of life and religions, but according to the European Court of Human Rights, we have not found this balance in today's subject. Let it be clear: it wasn't better before, when it was more Christianity for the majority, but when the religious minorities pulled out of the hours when it was taught in important parts of Norwegian cultural heritage. But we need to listen more to the beliefs and beliefs of life. We can't claim that we've created a subject that includes the minorities, as long as the ones we mean to include don't feel included. We also invite you to a broad agreement on the school's purpose paragraph. While the school's most important task in the past was to prepare children and young people for confirmation, today we have left this task to the Church itself, and similarly to other religious communities in Norway. For us, this is about parental rights, and it kind of surprises me that those who talk about parental rights most often are most concerned about the school giving one particular religious assignment. It is the parents themselves and not the school that will give children and young people religious education. Knowledge of different religions, of our cultural heritage and of common values, on the other hand, is a task for the school. So I encourage all parties to put their hats aside and figure out a common solution. A public body has come up for a common purpose. I believe that, as politicians, we fail our task if we end up with greater disagreement in the Storting than among representatives of different religious and life-view societies. The research recruitment message is also important. It has not been long since the red-green government provided safer employment for researchers. We need to ensure that those who choose to work as researchers are more secure for their jobs. In this area, we met resistance from the opposition here in Stortinget. It is also important that we get more scholarship holders to ensure better recruitment for research positions. But it's serious when every fourth scholarship doesn't complete its doctorate. Therefore, we must demand that the doctoral students get a much better follow-up. Quality reform should ensure better follow-up of the individual student. Now we need a similar effort to ensure better follow-up of the individual grantee and of newly recruited researchers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1968	Ine Marie Søreide – Eriksen Søreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1971	This was a little difficult: Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – that's something the president can do for the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1976	The clock is not started until now, as a compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e1979	Thank you for that. Sometimes there's more information to get into what's not in a throne speech than in what's actually there. In the debate on the first budget of the Red-Green Government in the autumn of 2005, Øystein Djupedal said: «We will follow through on 3 p.m. through our years in government. of GDP in terms of further stepping up the appropriations for research. ‘... On questions from the Right to the Council of State Djupedal in connection with the presentation of the revised national budget in May of this year, we asked about the adopted cross-political objective of that 3 pst. GDP for research purposes by 2010, remains constant. Governments replied: ‘The government has not accepted any change in these objectives.’ On the other hand, considerable uncertainty has been created during the summer on the part of the State Council as to whether the targets are set or whether they have been pushed forward in time, from 2010 to 2020. When the Government does not use the occasion the census gives a clear signal that the goal of 3 pst. of GDP for research efforts is fixed, it is very close to interpreting it as if this unanimously agreed objective has been sacrificed by the red-green government. The first sentence of the government in the throne is that Norway is the country of opportunity. That's right, if you actually take advantage of them. We live in exceptionally good times, and we have opportunities to invest for future generations that past generations could hardly imagine and can only envy us. But we're in danger that future generations will look back on us and wonder why we didn't seize all the opportunities we had. When today's politicians meet the verdict of history, we can't hide behind that we didn't know better. Because we know very well that it's important to invest in the future when we have economic space for it. We know very well that it is urgent, because it takes a long time to reap the fruits of investment in research that we are doing today. We also know very well that hardly any investment is more important for the welfare and prosperity of the future than investment in higher education and research. In Dagbladet on 12 October 2006, the Council of State, Mr Djupedal, said: «In the case of research, this budget is a cutting edge.» History's verdict on politicians who have to take a break before they start the job is hardly gracious. Then it's a poor comfort to us others that we said from and promoted alternative proposals where future generations too are being satisfied, because the betrayal of future generations in any case is being trumped by the red-green majority rule. But even more wonderful is the fact that a government with historical economic space found it reasonable to carry out dramatic cuts in the transfers to universities and colleges. The government also found no reason to grant money to fellows. This means that Norway is now far behind the escalation plans. So the government can be moving away from the unanimously adopted ambitious and necessary goal of 3 pst. of Norwegian GDP for research purposes by 2010. I assume without a doubt that the government in the budget for 2008 has learned from the two previous budgets. I wanted to see it as unmistakable that the government would waste the opportunity they once again have to facilitate good investments for the future. I also expect at least that they will return the entire cut of 275 million. kr to universities and colleges. But that is not where the debate is now. The debate is about the government to bet, not just patching the wounds that the sea has created. In an interview with Monday morning on 1 October 2007, Øystein Djupedal said: ‘Universities and colleges have not had a more difficult financial situation this year than before.’ But those who are employees, students and researchers at those institutions experience a completely different reality. They experience poorer study quality, less time for research and job stops. It also means that the cut has resulted in the quality reform introduced in higher education being no longer fully financed. That's it. The right, of course, expects that the ceasefire to the Council of State of Djupedal has had an effect, and that there is thus a sector which has had a very relaxed Council of State to fight for itself in the Budgetary Conferences. Because it has to be that once you have had a break, it has to be that you take again more than the lost, when you get back on the track. At least the right will continue the efforts we have had both in government and in opposition to research and higher education. If the Government is serious about Norway being a knowledge nation, it does not intend to say that increased research efforts are a goal of the Government. The fact that Norway is a society of opportunity is both a commitment and a historic opportunity that must not be swept away by a visionless and ambitious government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2017	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2021	Right has been through a very rough period in the last. It's a fact that Right made its second worst municipal election since 1971, it's 36 years old. The only thing left of the dream of a plural government is the prime minister candidate data. The government option is broken. However, there must be comfort in the fact that the vocabulary rebellion is at least over, and that right-wing spokesmen could choose that the feeding of the municipalities was a time of departure. The Labour Party and I recognise that not all tasks or problems within the local economy are solved. But my question to the representative Eriksen Soreide is: Does she acknowledge that there has been an important and correct improvement in the local economy under the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2028	It is interesting to note that at a time when transfers to municipalities and tax revenues have increased correctly, schools are not benefiting from it. There's still an empty pool around the schools. In fact, after the red-green government came to power, and after both the tax revenues and the incomes of the municipalities have increased, the group size increases, so there are even more students in each classroom than it was done before. It tells me that it's not economics that's the only thing that matters for the way the municipalities control and represent. But it also means that the most important thing is to have local politicians who are actually concerned about the content of the school. I think it is good that the Right has made a good municipal election, which means that we get many rapporteurs around who are going to bet on the school, just as the Right has done both in government and in municipal governments all year round.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2033	I expect the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide to agree that if you have good and important ambitions and goals for the people of Norway, you should have the same good and many of the same ambitions and goals for other parts of the world. One of the most important visions we have in SV, which is also reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration, is the ambition of a green knowledge society in Norway. I remember Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, then just Eriksen, as one of the most brutal attackers against international solidarity and against the fact that it would be possible to have ambitions in other countries, by being one of the most frequent advocates of cutting aid. Fortunately, the Right was with the Christian People's Party and the Left for four years and lost his election promise to cut the aid, and increased the aid evenly. But once the Right is alone outside of a government, they're going to release the aid again. Is it so that the ambitions of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide about increasing education in Norway are ambitions that she does not want to contribute to the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2042	This was a very interesting line. The representative Heikki Holmås and I come from the same state, and we've had a lot to do with each other politically over the years. Then I think it is quite strange that the representative Heikki Holmås has not got anything quite fundamental into my argument about free trade, which I expect is what he is really talking about. I've always said, and I've always thought, it's an important thing to combine trade and assistance. For it has been shown throughout all years that it does not keep providing assistance to poor countries that are under development. We also have to make sure that we open our markets here in the country for what poor countries can actually sell and actually produce. Without such free trade, we are involved in making it more difficult for developing countries, and not least we are saying no to the most important demands of developing countries. That's why it's been very important for me and for the Right to say that we're going to be able to make a good development of poor countries in the world, we have to combine trade and aid. I think we have come a long way in that job, much thanks to the effort that the Right contributed when we were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2047	I think this persuasion debate is about to become a question hour, instead of a persuasion debate where the opposition is presenting its alternatives. I'm going to ask what the Right would actually do in relation to this government having now gone into $12 billion in taxes. As I remember, the Right promised in the previous election campaign up to NOK 40 billion a year. So it's a sum that in this period would be equivalent to $200 billion less for public consumption, research and higher education, not $250 million. kr, to which the Right-wing Representative refers. All public institutions must experience a better everyday life with this government than with the previous government. It's just a law of nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2054	I think the drumming debate is actually starting to get a little bit better now, it's starting to get up a little bit. This is getting interesting. It is a fact that the government of which the Right was part actually managed both to provide tax relief – which was important for the companies around and which created jobs and well-being – and at the same time managed to have a historically high level of research efforts and efforts for higher education and the development of initial training. That's why I think it's very funny to see that the Workers' Party's representative, who is now in a government that's tightening up the tax screws, who makes companies and private individuals unable to control their own incomes, at the same time manages to cut the piece of art in research and cut almost 300 million. kr in transfers to universities and higher education institutions. It is quite important to give notice through this debate that those who are now students, those who are now employees and researchers at universities and colleges around the country, do not experience an improvement, they experience dramatic cuts that mean poorer research quality, less time for research and employment stops at the institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2061	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2064	I'm going back to one of the opening issues in this debate of the throne, namely the debate on the centre of Norwegian politics. Neither do I belong to those who believe that the center is finished. Here I fully agree with the Hojbrätten that there is a lot that keeps us together, both history, value base and current political issues. For the Center Party, a strong political center will be positive, because it moves the center of gravity in our direction, and it's obviously good. As a matter of principle, the more concentrated the centre will be, the more pervasive the pattern of Norwegian policy will be able to be. Of course, the invitation that Åslaug Haga came to the Newspaper on 4 November last year to Dagfinn Højbrätt and the Christian People's Party is at work. A closer cooperation between us will be for the best both for the Christian People's Party, for the Center Party, for this government and therefore for this country as well. Lars Sponheim and Left have used both this debate and the days ahead to try to define the Center Party out of the centre of Norwegian politics. This is, at my discretion, an unfine rule technique. The analysis is also based on two basic misconclusions. Firstly, I believe that Sponheim lacks the historical perspective. It's the Center Party that has guaranteed the center option, and has fought this out. This happened in 1972 during the formation of the Korvald government. Then left five state councils with five major government representatives. It's almost as good a countdown as they had under the Bondevik II government. Nor is there any doubt that it was Anne Enger Lahnstein's project that was realized by the formation of the Bondevik I-government. It's also been so that it's our tilt position that has guaranteed this option. We lost this position in 2001 – then with the result that the Christian People's Party and the Left chose to go right in favor of the centre option. This happened on 11 September 2001 – without comparison. If you think about the political will of the Bondevik II government, it's hard to get a look at the central political image. At least they didn't put much emphasis on what happened. The clearest breaches of old centre values that came were, in my opinion, the attack on the fall-back institute, the privatisation of fishing resources, the commercialisation of the school system and the decline of local democracy and the local well-being that we experienced through the municipal economy. There's a lot to say about this, but at least it's not at my discretion, as Lars Sponheim so beautifully expressed it, to build a society from below with the individual in focus. The second basic conclusion of Sponheim is that the whole premise of being a center party must be that you can cooperate both ways. On his own account, Sponheim draws up the environment, economic policy and multicultural Norway as a basis for not cooperating with the Progress Party. In all of these areas, it would be good for the Left to come to terms with the sitting government. Still, he's very clear that it's not going to happen. But it is with great pleasure – at least for the Central Party – that we can establish that we have gained a lot in the two years we have now been involved in and put our influence on the policy that this government is pursuing, whether in terms of local economy or in terms of repatriation. Tomorrow, the universal social security system continues with the fact that self-employed people are also given birth rights in the same way as everyone else, and a proper debate has been held on democracy and division of tasks between the various governmental bodies, with the aim of decentralising it as much as possible. I hope for the future that the centre of Norwegian policy will be able to cooperate more closely than has been the status of the last four years. I am convinced that it will be for the best, also for the Center Party and for the values that we represent.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2081	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2084	Let me first take this opportunity to congratulate Ola Borten Moe on the new position as head of the Stortinge Food Committee. It is an important and challenging task in a society where public authorities are taking more and more room at the expense of business. The centre party has so far not made any particular difference in the field of industrial policy. The party has now been sitting for two years with a government council in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which has also not made any particular mark, nor has it delivered many cases to Stortinget. For many years the centre party has been one of the strongest speakers for the importance of maintaining a Norwegian shipping service, that Norway should be the leader in shipping. Yesterday, the Government presented a strategy plan for the maritime industries that were very poorly received by the actors involved. Tomorrow, the Government will make a proposal to withdraw most of the equity from Norwegian shipping companies. Is this a situation with which Ola Borten Moe and the Center Party are satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2095	First of all, I would like to thank you for your congratulations as head of the Business Committee. It's a task that I'm of course doing with great respect. Furthermore, I do not share the reality that Kielland Asmyhr uses, namely that we have not been visible, and that we have not been impressed by our policies. With regard to the Minister of Agriculture, I believe that a fundamental negative attitude has been reversed in large parts of Norwegian agriculture and districts, where there is now much more positive than in the past. We have had a Minister of Transport who has facilitated the development of infrastructure across the country, which is essential for growth and development throughout the country. As far as shipping taxes are concerned, I would like to end by saying something similar to what Parliamentary leader Breck said earlier. It's obvious that here there are three parties who have gone into this work on the state budget with different starting points and different wishes. A compromise is reached, and the solution presented by the Government is something that the Central Party has put itself behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2107	Since it can be perceived as premature to interfere in this centre party attack on the center alternative, I have to ask questions about energy policy, which has been Borten Moe's responsibility. I'll get into his mind for approx. two years ago, when he marked that the new government should do all that the previous government did not do in the renewable energy sector. He concluded that we should now speed up the development of biogas, speed up water-borne heat, speed up the development of clean gas power plants in Norway, get a green certification market in place in Norway, speed up wind power development in Norway, speed up renewable energy, industrial power regimes in place, etc. The fact today is that nine out of ten of these projects are still in the drawer waiting. What comes from the fact that the Central Party has made sure that this policy is still in a stable side?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2116	It's not the first time I've discussed this with Ivar Kristiansen. It's happened a lot in the last two years. It should be borne in mind that two years ago we were at an absolute zero when it came to Norwegian energy policy. There were no support schemes for renewable energy production. On the other hand, we were in the process of breaking down the fall-back system. We've settled that, secured the ownership rights there for the benefit of the community forever. An energy fund has been established to cover up to DKK 30 billion by 2012. We are now implementing new rules through the Law on Planning and Building, which means that waterborne heat is required. A level of renewable energy supply is also required. In that part of the country I come from – Trondheim – last Thursday a massive expansion of the district heating system was opened. Windmills are also being built, and we know that the NVE has a problem on the processing side, because there are so many who want to expand small power plants. So calling energy policy to this government a scandal is to draw it way too far. Having said that, I would like to say that of course there will also be opportunities to improve an already good policy, and I expect that we will have opportunities to do so through, among other things. a broad climate settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2125	I would also like to congratulate the new Chairman of the Business Committee, and I hope that constructive cooperation will take place in due course. Good nutrition policy is to facilitate an innovative business and the Left will continue to focus on a better policy for small businesses and self-employed people. Unfortunately, the proposals we have been promoting in recent years have been voted down by the government parties, including the Central Party. Former head of the nutrition committee, Lars Peder Breck, said the following about the government's tax arrangements, which hit small businesses, in the context of the 2006 state budget: 'It is very unpleasant, to put it straight out.' from the centre party of the Left, so that the new leader does not ‘become particularly uncomfortable’, but rather pleasant, in the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2134	Of course, I want to fight for both the Central Party and the Government's industrial policy to be implemented as closely to the centre as possible. Whether it is defined as voting on the proposals that the Left is always promoting, I am more uncertain about. But I ask the representative to note what the government is doing in the state budget that is being promoted tomorrow, where the right to maternity benefits is extended, so that self-employed people are now being equated with those who are employed in the usual way. There is, of course, a great promise that makes it significantly easier to pursue their own business and that sidesteps important groups in Norwegian society — a good example of a well-centred industrial policy that this government is pursuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2139	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2142	‘People are society’s most important resource. That's why investing in children, education and research is one of the most important things we as a society can do. Both to make society richer, but also to make human lives better.The government has as one of its main priorities to focus on education and knowledge.’ That is a good thing to say, but these are not my words, even though I agree with the main content of them. The quotes are from the Soria Moria statement. Unfortunately, despite the fact that Norway is the worst on the research side in the Nordic region, the Trontale did not offer a strong commitment to education and research in the time to come. When the Minister of Knowledge is challenged because we now have a lower share of GDP going to research, he says that GDP growth is so high. It is true that we have high GDP growth in Norway, but that does not explain why Norway is so weak in relation to our neighbouring country – both in terms of GDP and in terms of crowns. While Norway spent 30 billion dollars in 2005, or 1.53 pst. Of GDP, in research, Denmark spent DKK 40 billion, which equals 2.4 pst. of GDP, Finland NOK 49 billion, which equals 3.5 of GDP, and Sweden NOK 99 billion, which equals 3.9 pst. GDP. Later budgets have not at all corrected this. So this government is not even able to compete with our closest neighbours on research and development, and then it becomes thin to claim that education and research should be one of the main areas of government activity. Norway is hopelessly far behind neighbouring countries when we look at how much we spend on research in relation to GDP, says Egil Kallerud from NIFU STEP to the Evening Post on 2 October this year. When the Government proudly announced to the Storting that the research effort has been significantly strengthened, it is actually wrong! In fact, there is a nominal increase in research effort of 923 million. kr, but in real research crowns, i.e. corrected for cost growth, this is no bet compared to 2006. That is why I was quite surprised that the former fiscal spokesman of the Labour Party, now the parliamentary leader, Hill-Marta Solberg, in his reply to me earlier today, did not know the difference in nominal and real increase in the budget. There will be no increased research effort if one does not allow more than what is needed to fill the cost growth. Therefore, it is not so difficult to show that there has been no investment in research with this government. It's just dealing with real numbers. It is worrying that the Government, on the one hand, asserts the importance of research, while on the other hand it does not relate to either increased appropriations or comparisons research efforts with other countries. Norway is the worst in the North. The government is doing nothing. Universities are getting worse after the government change came into force in 2005. And in order to be concrete – because we often talk in an overall context from this pulpit – I would like to point out concrete cut suggestions at the Faculty of Law at the University of Oslo, which is proposed for 2008. A reduced time frame has been adopted for vocational training, fewer options in the electoral field, fewer hours in criminology and legal sociology, exposed tests are not offered, and, worst of all, examination hours are reduced from eight to six hours between 1 and 4. department and from six to four hours in the electoral field. It must be with respect to report quite strongly in violation of Klungland's natural law, which was presented here earlier today. This will have major consequences for the students. It hits everyone. I would like to see those who claim that a person can get a better overview of the level of knowledge through a study by reducing examination time from something that is already short to something that is considerably shorter. So it's not true that this government is focusing on knowledge and research. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to do something that rarely serves as a basis, and that is to thank the Times of the World. Today, they have a big headline in their newspaper that shows how the various secondary schools place themselves in relation to the results of the exams, despite the fact that this government has put its performance in the belief that there should be no ranking of schools based on professional results. I think it's important that the Times of the World have a similar look every six months, so that all the schools see how it is with the professional level, and what it takes to make them better. So for once, VG doesn't do just a good job, but they do an excellent job, as the government should have done. I encourage VG to keep focus on ranking the schools, so that the schools themselves know how they are. The schools that are the worst in this survey are also positive in finding out where they are. Here's a strong call both from us and from VG to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2162	After two years, the government of Stoltenberg has turned its course into a much more active and offensive industrial policy. New tools and extra opportunities create new jobs, and the government is investing in the areas in which we are good at as a nation. The result is that Norwegian businesses are doing well, and unemployment is falling. Never before has there been more employment in this country than is the case today. Work for everyone and a working life for everyone is the focus of this government. The state's purchase of Aker axes is a good example of the red-green government's active industrial policy. This is a historic agreement that gives Aker Kværner long-termity on the owner's side and that contributes to a national anchoring of strong Norwegian competence environment. In this case, the government has got something that the previous government never was in the vicinity of getting ready. The merger of Statoil and Hydro is another major and important issue that the Government is behind. State ownership is important. It guarantees the right to have our common natural resources and national anchoring of important companies. There is great support among most people to ensure strong and public Norwegian ownership. The government's ownership policy makes the country an active, long-term and senior owner of important Norwegian companies. In the ownership message, we made it clear that state-owned companies should have objectives for the eye other than just short-term stock exchange gains. Therefore, we should be very specific and detailed in the requirements that we impose on the company, among others. requirements for research and development, for environmental requirements and for lack of rental. Through the public ownership we will help to develop other parts of the business as well. For a long time, there has been a lot of focus on senior wages in state and state companies. There's a simple reason for that. The option arrangements, which have been widened in recent years, including in state companies, have brought wages completely out of proportion. The Hydro option case shows very clearly how important it is for the Government to focus on this. Several representatives from the previous government have used big words in this matter, but they themselves did nothing to prevent such option agreements when they put the power to do so. It is in stark contrast to what the Stoltenberg government has done by saying clearly and clearly that such pay arrangements should be abolished! The size has, as you know, adopted a law that prevents us from such option agreements in the future. Of course, we must have competitive wage earners, but they must not be wage managers. Top leaders, not only in the state, but throughout the business world, have an obligation to show social responsibility. They're a model by its position, and they have to be conscious of that role. The Prime Minister went out earlier this fall and said that being a top leader in a state-owned company must be seen as a trustee. This has been ridiculed by the stock exchange environment, and the opposition has been critical. But it must be beyond doubt that renting a company that manages the community's values, for example. oil, hydropower and infrastructure are a major and important task. As a leader of such a state-owned company, there is a possibility to help build and shape society, not only today, but also for the future. It is obvious to me that this is an expanded trust. Some criticise the red-green government for exercising one for active ownership, while others think the government is too passive. I want to claim that we have found a good balance. With red-green public ownership, we are assured that the state is a clear and demanding owner who manages ownership in a professional and tidy way. Finally, I would like to highlight the aquaculture and fisheries industries as a good and forward-looking industry. This industry is primarily a district industry located along the whole coast. Coastal industries can contribute to the threat of the future in small coastal communities and counteract the relocation and closure of jobs in peripheral areas. There are high export values and ring-fences in the fisheries and aquaculture industries. Therefore, this industry is very important to many communities along the coast. Competitive framework conditions will then be decisive to ensure that coastal value creation and jobs are secured in the future. Of course, the Government will be involved in implementing a fisheries policy that has both good environmental management and good resource management in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2179	Without business Norway stops. The economy creates jobs and provides a basis for well-being. This is done in an interaction between actions and governance. Politicians’ role is not to adopt jobs but to facilitate a solid business with good adaptability. We have a good starting point. Norway is one of the world's most valuable countries. One important reason for this is that we have a good use of human resources through experimentation and research. The labour force, or the present value of the future labour input, is according to the Ministry of Finance for almost 90 p.m. of the national wealth, while the petroleum fortune stands for 4 pst. The workforce must be further processed through good knowledge dissemination at school, through several university scholarships and through further development of the SkattenFUNN scheme. Inventor Thomas Alva Edison had a look outside his lab where it said the following: We have no rules! We're trying to achieve something! We need rules, but Edison has a point. If there are too many and complicated rules, forms and reporting systems, it goes beyond the creativity and willingness of the enterprises. The Christian People’s Party will follow up the idea of ‘Simplify Norway’ with a practical approach in dialogue with business. The Christian People's Party is also occupied in other ways by small and medium-sized enterprises. Many of these companies are family eight. They are often built up through generations by the owners plaguing much of the excess back into the business. Such long-term thinking shall pay off. The Christian People's Party will therefore remove the inheritance fee when the next generation continues the family business for at least ten years. The availability of risk capital can also be a challenge, especially in the districts. We will therefore provide business with the possibility of tax-free provision of up to 10 pst. of the surplus in good years, in order to secure funds for further development in «magic years». Stable and predictable framework conditions are decisive for the activities. Not least for a long time in government, the Christian People's Party has shown that we are a guarantor of a responsible economic policy. The Bondevik II government conducted a policy that provided the basis for low interest rates, control of the krone price, and thus also for better competitiveness, not least for export rights in the districts. I am generally not busy criticising the government unnecessarily, but we cannot rely on the fact that the current government on a number of points has not lived up to what the same government party promised in the election campaign two years ago. For example, here I briefly mention that a new industrial power regime is not yet in place. With a wide pen, it was badly stated that it should be "a piece of cake". Nothing has happened – and now it is urgent! Agricultural organisations believe that the Government is still far from having fulfilled the promise of a ‘new course’. Agriculture needs concrete action, not just fine words. The Christian People's Party is occupied by the whole human being. There are actually more important things in life than high private consumption, white goods in steel, design clothes and SUV cars. In order to ensure a good balance between work and leisure time, time for family and friends, and to be able to enjoy fresh air and beautiful nature, we will provide self-employed, good social security schemes in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. We'll expand the paper commission, and we'll raise a wide societal debate about quality of life and about having goals for good life other than just material and economic goals. The Christian People's Party will have a better environmental and climate policy. The buying party's problematic aspects are very clear. The climate threat is one of the greatest challenges of our time. We think that man has a decisive responsibility for a wise management of the resources on the globe. It is more important than ever that economic growth is viable. Knowledge and development of forward-looking technology is an important key. The Christian People's Party will impose strict environmental requirements, but we will also facilitate good and future solutions to pay off. In time, environmental technology companies will have a competitive advantage. To facilitate environmentally friendly production and production of environmentally friendly products, such as: solar cells and windmills, etc. is good not only for the environment; it is also good for industrial policy. In other words, the Christian People's Party wants an active enterprise policy that facilitates the greatest possible sustainable value creation, a policy that takes into account that the business community in the first row should be built from below, and a policy that takes care of the whole human being, by centralising important values such as time to family and friends, disconnection, cultural experiences and natural experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2213	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2216	Several representatives from the Christian People's Party have so far in the debate the famous Workers' Party for Martin Kolberg's settlement with traditional economic growth based on increased material consumption. Among other things, I have I noticed that the Høybräten boasts of Kolberg that he is putting this debate on the agenda, and that is boasting I think is quite justified. Several current issues also show that our two parties are close in several areas of business policy. I have noticed that the representative Sørfonn boasts the Government in order to contribute to the long-term stability of the ownership of Aker Kværner through the purchase of shares and thereby to ensure that the company is still managed in Norway. Will the representative Sørfonn say that the Government is on the right course in business policy? And: are there really any big dividing lines between our two parties' business policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2225	Yeah, this was an interesting question, which it's hard to answer in a minute. The problem is that both the Christian People's Party and the opposition have a little problem figuring out what the Government is heading for business policy. We see some grips that we're positive to, but we're not positive to others, etc. the unfulfilled social contract. In the tax reform, which was justly introduced in the previous period, there should be an exchange between businesses that accepted dividends tax on a reduction in the tax on wealth. This government has left a line across it. It's pretty serious. My tip is here – it's a small, friendly tip – to see closer to exemptions from property taxes on working capital, and to fulfill the social contract that has been concluded after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2233	First, I would like to give tribute to Mr Sørfonn's representative for many wise words. The Christian People's Party has supported the Government earlier this year that we need to have greater ambitions in terms of the scope of research in Norway, through the fact that companies in which the state owns more than today should take advantage of the opportunity they have to increase research, and thus contribute to our survival in the future. I want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party for this, given that it is primarily the industry that is lagging behind in terms of the goals that both the SV and the Christian People's Party have agreed on, namely that research in the business community should reach 2 pst. GDP. I still believe that the Christian People's Party is about to sabotage the bones of the crack they're sitting on, because the Christian People's Party has also stated that they want to sell out many of the same companies. They support the Right and Advance Party in strengthening private ownership and thereby reducing public ownership. So the Christian People's Party wants to use state companies to increase research, but what is actually the course when the Christian People's Party will at the same time make a sale?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2240	When it comes to our sales proposals, they were reasonably informed of a going back to the message we treated before the summer. But there's a clear context in our policies, because research and education are very important. In the case of state-owned companies, or companies in which the State is a significant owner, it is important that these go and show way. But we can't stop there. That's why the Christian People's Party is very busy with the TaxFUNN, which is a good, accurate and unbureaucratic system, which industry itself appreciates very much. We were disappointed last year when the TaxFUNN scheme was tightened up a little. We thought the signal should go in the opposite direction. So we're going to be in charge of research, development, Tax Fund and other good measures to enhance our competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2245	The representative Ingebrigig S. Sørfonn mentions in his speech that the agricultural organisations are not satisfied with the agricultural policy pursued by the current government. That's at least the way I see the article. One of the questions I would like to ask the representative Sørfonn is whether he can clarify to a little greater extent what the Christian People's Party wants with Norwegian agricultural policy. And not least, what did the Christian People's Party do when they were in government in the previous period? I just want to point out that this government has gone far beyond the income increase that the previous government managed to achieve, and we have also reintroduced the forestry policy. I want to ask about Ingebrigig S. Sørfonn sees that there have been positive changes, that we are on the way to creating a better basis for a future, good agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2250	Agriculture policy is very important both in terms of bussiness around our country and in terms of caring for the cultural landscape. So we see a lot of practical examples of this. When I say that the agricultural organisations are not satisfied, I refer to the agricultural organisations themselves. The expectations for a new course were very high. Farm organisations say they are currently not seeing this new course. When it comes to the Christian People's Party's holding, both in government and outside government, we have been, we are and will be the front fighters for an active agricultural policy, for a versatile agriculture, so that family farming, too, should have a future, and so that, based on active operations on the garden, living gardens, it can be busted throughout our country. And last of all, I just want to underline what I said in the introduction: taking care of the cultural landscape is a bigger and bigger challenge that we're forced to take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2259	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2262	At the 2005 elections, the voters asked for a new course. The voters said no to a colder society and yes to a warmer society, yes to more community and yes to more justice. It was throne times and cut in Kommune-Noreg when we took over in 2005. By stopping the Bondevik administration's proposals for tax relief, we have actually provided 50 billion extras for school, kindergarten and care for the elderly. It's monnar. There is not a dictator, regardless of the party, who did not want to welcome this bet on our municipalities. The paradox that happened in the election campaign was that spokesmen from the Right and the Advance Party stood up with great pondus and boasted that they were delivering. Yes, it's thanks to the red-green government – we socialists – that pushes the money on them. As I said, the red-green government has chosen common solutions rather than privatisation, market and supply. We are equipping our common welfare arrangements, as several added to the care of the elderly and expanding school days. We have stopped the privatisation of the school and say no to the privatisation of the pension system. Together with the other parties, we have ensured a broad agreement on a new pension reform aimed at ensuring justice, the possibility of standing longer in work and the possibility of a decent leave from work for the workers. And we're working with the social partners, not courage, to put in place a good design of the future AFP system – a good system that should apply to everyone. And I want to make it clear that we have chosen work for everyone rather than continuing the brutalization of working life. The languages of the throne include: Justice policy. Here too, the government has done a lot. I want to go forward four things. First of all, it's gang crime. We have seen that criminal gangs are well organized and involved in everything from profit crime and financial crime to arms trafficking, drug trafficking and killing. The gang recruits younger guys who are tempted by quick money and who look up to the recruiters with gold chains and expensive, fancy cars. In the same way, we have seen that the hallucinations have been very well organized, with an international machine for human trafficking and money laundering. If we are to take the backers and be able to take action against those who act as the hub of organized crime, systematic research and cooperation between the various actors must take place. For example, the gang/band project in Oslo and the newly created STOP group against human trafficking were all at the heart of the actions in spring against both the B gang and the trafficking in human beings associated with Bulgaria. It shall no longer be such that, as soon as they leave prison, the relays can continue their luxury lives and have power in the criminal environment because of economic strength. No, we're going to take that power from them. Financial resources provided through criminal activity are now to be recovered. This shows that reorganising the police in a new and better way is producing good results when it comes to fighting crime. The government is also working on setting up transport contracts to transfer foreign prisoners to their own country of origin. It is easy to note that the opposition’s response in all contexts of justice policy is more police. But it doesn't help to call for new police posts if we don't have enough outlaws to get into the work. There must be more police officers out there, and I am proud to say that the government has sucked because we now have a record high intrusion on the Police Hill. The third area I want to move forward in the justice sector is under control in close relations. Here you can focus on the issues and highlight them in the light. This I say even if I know that the darkness valley is great. However, the approach of an aid lawyer, whether a reporter or not, and the conversion of funding to crisis centres are important in this context. The fourth point that I want to make is the return guarantee that we're working on, which is to be in place in the criminal justice message that comes in 2008. Here we start a test project in Årdal in Sogn and Fjordane where we focus on finding, getting and keeping a job. That's how we can get rid of the repeaters. Much has been said about the change in course from the previous government's policy to the red-green policy, and one of the most important is, of course, the deterioration of the local economy and the focus on the environment. The opposition points out that we're not yet in measure at all points, and that's of course correct. Of course, we're not in goal after just two years. But I want to stress that we're definitely on track to achieve our goal, and we're going to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2294	It was not unexpected that this year’s census was also very little concrete and almost bare for visions and new measures to address the problems and challenges facing society. In fact, despite the fact that a lot is going well in society, not everyone is getting involved in this prosperity development. I want to focus a lot on health in my article. In the throne speech, the Government states, among other things: the following: ‘The government will continue to strengthen the economy of hospitals. Waiting times must be kept down. The necessary renewal of the current hospital building and hospital equipment shall be ensured.’;» We've heard this many times before. It unfortunately tends to become many words that are not followed up in action. And it is that if these promises are not followed by means, they are just promises, and it will ultimately create political contempt. What is the current state of health care now when two years have passed from the period when Norway was to be governed by the Soria Moria Declaration? I'll use some examples. Self-esteem has never been higher despite the promise that these should be reduced and kept at a low level. It's in the Soria Moria statement. Only in the last year have the waiting lists for specialist healthcare treatment increased by 20,000 people. This is in stark contrast to the promises and what was said in the throne speech, which was presented here a few days ago. A number of regional health firms are warning of large operating deficits despite the fact that both growth and government have required health businesses to balance their finances and that the Brustad Government Council has previously stated that they are on the right track. Does this stand for believers? One of the last things we heard was that Health East, or Health South-East, as it is now called – also called Health Largest – reports an operating deficit of DKK 1.4 billion. This is in addition to the problems we have already been reported from Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord. The only thing left is getting the numbers from the Health West. I'm afraid we're going to see big numbers in the end. The food supply was to be guaranteed – and this is happening at the same time as we have a summer behind us with a lot of summer-ridden food departments. The local hospitals were to be preserved, as we see an eternal battle for cuttings and manning and major problems related to recruitment, and thus also a risk of a worse offer if you live in the district. All of this shows that the Government has not been able to respond adequately to the needs of sick people. The last case from the Government, which we are now dealing with in the Health and Care Committee, concerns a treatment guarantee for children and young people in the psychiatry. I just have to say that if the government when it presents the budget tomorrow, does not come up with a significant number of earmarked funds to follow up this treatment guarantee, the government does not actually stand up to believe in psychiatry either, because it has been an explicit desire from this house to follow up what former health minister Ansgar Gabrielsen began on, namely that the psychiatry should be lifted up and get a proper and dignified place within the specialist health service. Then it is important to follow this up. It must soon be expected that the Government will present a package — a package on how to meet future health challenges. What is currently here is empty words and little action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2321	This autumn will be marked by the work of the Climate Communication here in Stortinget. It's the most important thing of our time – it's about our common future. The government has set ambitious targets. We're going to overcomply with the Kyoto commitments by 10 pst. We need to reduce the climate emissions corresponding to 30 pst. of our emissions by 2020, and we will be climate neutral by 2050. For this very reason, we have launched a major project for the development of environmentally friendly and profitable gas technologies in Mongstad. That is why we have set up a basic renewable energy investment fund to reach NOK 30 billion by 2012. The most stringent climate quota system in Europe for industry has been introduced from the new year onwards, and we have started a change of car charges and introduced new and stricter building regulations that take more account of the environment. In addition to all this, our municipal elected representatives are fully engaged in climate work locally. We've only started this far, and today's work is just in the start-up phase. A lot of work remains in the years that come. The point is not that measures should be used as far as possible, but that they should work as best as possible. However, we must dare to take all the environmental costs into account when making our decisions. I'm not sure if this is actually being done today. Will strict environmental requirements affect our value creation? Is it value creation if the costs of pollution exceed the value of the product produced? My answer to this is no. All environmental costs, both current and future, must be on the table, and we must make some important choices. This must govern our future environmental choices. As I said, the government put forward just before summer a very ambitious and good climate message that we're going to work on right now. This message introduces a new and exciting bet on offshore wind power. This is also a bet I'm very positive to. We know that wind turbines on land are very controversial many places. By investing in offshore wind turbines, these conflicts will be eliminated. In my view, Norway has a very high potential in this area. We are a nation with great offshore knowledge. It is therefore natural, from my point of view, to seek to further develop this knowledge in new areas. Sea-based wind power can be our new energy standard. Politicians cannot solve the climate crisis, many claim. I believe that we, as politicians, have an important role as organizer and regulator. Our task is to design a regulatory framework so that pollution can have consequences, a regulatory framework based on the precautionary principle. In addition, politicians have an important role to play in facilitating research and technology development. An active interaction between the market and authorities is needed to address the climate challenges. Each of us doesn't get to this, it's the community that has to solve the challenges. It is our responsibility here. The consideration of our children and grandchildren means that we must work on this matter in the best possible way. Partyal performance must be disregarded. This is not a suitable theme for cutting cheap points in the tabloid press. Nor can we debate this issue in a school-debate style. We have to do this in an overall political position that can stand forward. Good suggestions in this matter will be well received. It's better that more stick their heads together. The Labour Party will also build its policy on Community solutions in this area. I hope we can reach a common agreement on a policy that is at least as good as the government's climate communication – where we adopt ambitious measures to reduce climate change. That's what's going to have to happen in the future. Let us therefore take into account the climate and ensure a good cooperation climate also in the Stortingen in the autumn. Only in this way can we solve the future challenges when we're going to make our final decision before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2347	It was positive that the Prime Minister opened this morning with so broad a reference to our international commitments, not least through the UN. The UN Charter opens with the words ‘We the peoples’. In the UN governments meet as representatives of the people, although democratically elected parliaments are the most direct and legitimate representatives of the people. When the government depends on the trust of the majority in Parliament, there is no problem. I believe that the peoples of most countries have confidence that their own government takes care of their interests, but unfortunately we also know that there are several examples of the opposite. The UN is the body that, in a global context, has most clearly formulated the content of human rights through the Charter and a number of conventions, such as: the rights of women and children or political and social rights. Member States have signed and ratified the individual conventions differently. It says a lot about the state of each country. When someone like us has the opportunity to travel around the world and discuss such issues, it is even more alarming that practice is so different — even among those countries that have actually signed it. When the population is subjected to the abuse of the powers – and we see it regularly – it does little to help them that the country's authorities have signed the best agreements and conventions in the world. What matters is the implementation and the practice. Some simple conditions mean what the condition is like: Firstly, have the Convention's intentions been incorporated into its own law? And secondly, is the law being practiced? Then there is often a question of whether the courts are free, independent of the influence of the rulers, and whether they are uncorrupt. In a number of countries the people suffer because this very last point fails. Typically, this is also a country where parliaments have the least control over government policy and where elections are least democratic. Human rights are not relative! Human rights are absolute! We may not have clear enough to formulate them, and at times we are demanding that human rights should be boiled down to their core – core elements – all of which must be strictly respected. But it can also be a dangerous way to go, because it results in a graduation, where something becomes less important than anything else. The Foreign Affairs Committee regularly addresses human rights issues in countries where the rights of individuals are weak. The counterparties would like to claim that one has to adapt differences in culture, history, traditions or religion. To the Right who believe that the UN Conventions on Human Rights are universal, this is unacceptable. Now the UN does not have good or systematic responses to the non-conformities. The innovative Human Rights Council quails as unsolicited by farms as its predecessor the Human Rights Commission. The government obviously has a solid mandate from the Storting to establish planned and systematic criteria and reporting procedures. Because in the absence of reporting and reaction procedures, it is all the more important that we ourselves, the Storting and the Government on our behalf, are clear on what we stand for. And the opportunities to do that are many, both at home and outside. We could take examples from Russia, Belarus, Burma, Iran and many more, but I'm going to take a few other examples: we got this summer presented the government's China strategy. It contains a lot of good, even about human rights. However, an overriding consideration is an expanded economic relationship with a focus on increased market access for Norwegian goods and services. Well and well, but the appeal to the Government must be that one does not allow the appetite to take over and override the values we want to be our international brand. On 1 June, we had an inter-pelling debate here on the human rights situation in Vietnam. The focus was on human rights defenders in the country, but also on the surveillance of Norwegian citizens by Vietnamese authorities here in Norway. The Minister for Foreign Affairs then said that there is ‘an information I want to bring with me’. He continued: ‘Of course, that’s something we find unacceptable, and we need to find suitable ways to find out more about it.’ In two weeks' time, the President of Vietnam will be visiting Norway. The interpellation debate gave the government clear messages about what the Size seems to be important themes. It is about showing us the trust worthy of the ‘We the peoples’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-04.ana.ud2533e2382	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
